It's not the kind of thing that a man would be proud of .
And it doesn't make any difference .
He sold me a clear title .
I have it with me , right here .
If you want to see '' --
`` Never mind '' , she said sternly .
`` It wouldn't matter to my father , and not to me .
I meant what I said about that fire .
Be sure it's out when you leave .
That's all .
I'll let you go back to doing the dishes now '' .
It was meant to insult him , and didn't quite succeed .
He took the reins just below the bit and held them firmly , and it was his turn to smile now .
`` I don't mind washing dishes now and then '' , he said pleasantly .
`` It doesn't hurt .
It might hurt you , though .
Somebody might mistake you for a woman '' .
He meant to say more , but he never got the chance .
She was quick .
She brought the quirt down , slashing it across his cheek , and he tried to step back .
She swung the quirt again , and this time he caught her wrist and pulled her out of the saddle .
She came down against him , and he tried to break her fall .
He grabbed her by the shoulders and went down on one knee , taking her weight so that some of the wind was driven out of him .
It made him a little sick , and he let go of her .
He got up slowly , and she was already on her feet , and he stood facing her .
He wiped the blood from his cheek .
`` I ought to '' -- he said .
He was shaking with anger , his breath coming in long , painful gasps .
`` That quirt -- I ought to use it on you , where it would do the most good .
If you were a man '' --
`` She isn't , mister '' .
The voice came from behind him , and Wilson turned .
The fire had gone down , and the man was only a shadow against the trees .
But a moment later he brought his horse forward into the light , and Wilson had a good look at him .
He was tall and dark-skinned , a half-breed , Wilson thought .
And he was handsome , despite the long thin scar that slanted across his cheek .
`` She's not a man , mister '' , he said .
`` I am .
If you've got any ideas '' .
He raised the Winchester and pointed it at Wilson's chest .
`` Put the rifle down , Joseph '' , the girl said .
She seemed irritated .
`` I thought I told you to stay home '' .
The half-breed eased the Winchester down and rested it across his lap .
The scar looked pure white in the half-darkness ; ;
his eyes were black and deep-set , and expressionless .
`` You shouldn't be riding up here after dark , Judith '' , he said quietly .
`` I can take care of this .
It's no job for you '' .
The girl tapped the quirt impatiently against her knee and glared at him .
He took it without flinching .
`` I said go home , Joseph .
You've got no business up here '' .
The half-breed didn't answer this time .
But the scar seemed to pull hard at the corner of his mouth , and his eyes were hurt and angry .
It made Wilson wonder .
He watched the half-breed as he turned silently .
They could hear the pony's feet on the dry leaves for a while , then the sound faded out .
Wilson brushed the dust from his coat .
`` Who was that '' ? ?
He asked .
`` Your personal guard ? ?
You're pretty hard on him '' .
`` He works for my father '' , the girl said , and then seemed to change her mind .
`` He's a friend .
His name's Joseph Sanchez .
Is there anything else you want to know '' ? ?
`` Not now '' , Wilson said .
`` I guess I'll find out soon enough .
You've got blood on your cheek .
Not yours .
Mine .
It must have got there when you fell against me '' .
She wiped it off with the sleeve of her coat .
`` I'll bet that's as close as you've been to a man since you were a baby '' , Wilson said .
He saw her hand start to work down the leather thong toward the handle of the quirt , and he grabbed her wrist .
`` Oh , no '' , he said , and he was without humor now .
`` I've had enough of that .
I've had enough of you .
I don't know what goes on around here , and I don't care .
I don't know what makes you think you can get away with this kind of business , and I don't care about that , either .
You took me by surprise .
But I'll know how to handle you next time '' .
She brought up her free hand to hit him , but this time he was quicker .
He side-stepped her blow and she fell , stumbling against the gelding .
She finally regained her balance and got up in the saddle .
Her hat had come off and fallen behind her shoulders , held by the string , and he could see her face more clearly than he had at any time before .
He had forgotten that she was so pretty .
But her prettiness was what he had noticed first , and all the other things had come afterward : cruelty , meanness , self-will .
He had known women like that , one woman in particular .
And one had been too many .
He watched the girl until she had gone into the trees , and waited until he couldn't hear the sound of her horse any longer , then went up to where the children were sleeping .
They weren't sleeping , of course , but they thought they were doing him a favor by pretending .
He hadn't shown up too well in their eyes , letting himself be browbeaten by a woman .
They expected greater things from him , regardless of how trying the circumstances , and they were disappointed .
And determined not to show it .
They lay a little too stiffly , with their eyes straining to stay closed .
`` Go to sleep '' , he said .
`` Both of you .
There's better things to do than listen to something like that .
I'll be down at the creek finishing the dishes , if you want me '' .
He found the pan where he had dropped it and carried it back down to the stream .
The coyote was calling again , and he hoped that this time there would be no other sounds to interrupt it .
Not tonight , at any rate .
He had a feeling that the girl meant trouble .
If she did , he could stand it better in the light .
He scrubbed absent-mindedly at the pans and reflected on how things had turned out .
That afternoon when they had pulled up in front of the broken-down ranch house , his hopes had been high .
Already some of the pain had gone from Amelia's death .
Not all of it .
There would still be plenty of moments of regret and sadness and guilty relief .
But they were starting a new life .
And they had almost everything they needed : land , a house , two whiteface bulls , three horses .
The land wasn't all Wilson had expected of it .
Six hundred and forty acres , the old man back in St. Louis had said ; ;
good grass , good water .
Well , the grass was there , though in some places the ground was too steep for a cow to get to it .
The water was there , so much of it that it spread all through the dead orchard .
And there was a house ; ;
livable perhaps , but badly in need of repairs .
In the last analysis , though , Wilson had little cause to complain .
The place had been cheap -- just the little he had left after Amelia's burial -- and it would serve its purpose .
There was only one place where Jake Carwood's description had gone badly awry : the peace and quiet .
It hadn't started out that way .
And he had a feeling -- thanks to the girl -- that things would get worse before they got better .
2
They had the house cleaned up by noon , and Wilson sent the boy out to the meadow to bring in the horses .
He stood on the porch and watched him struggling with the heavy harness , and finally went over to help him .
Kathy was already in the wagon .
They were going to town , and they were both excited .
Wilson backed the team into the traces , and wished they weren't going to town at all .
He had an uneasy feeling about it .
That girl last night , what was her name ? ?
Judith Pierce .
It was the only thing about her that was the least bit hard to remember .
He finished with the team and filled his pipe and stood looking about him .
He had spent two hours riding around the ranch that morning , and in broad daylight it was even less inviting than Judith Pierce had made it seem .
There was brush , and stands of pine that no grass could grow under , and places so steep that cattle wouldn't stop to graze .
But there was water .
There was an artificial lake just out of sight in the first stand of trees , fed by a half dozen springs that popped out of the ground above the hillside orchard .
Yes , there was plenty of water , too much , and that was probably the trouble .
There were tracks of cattle all over his six hundred and forty acres .
The first part of the road was steep , but it leveled off after the second bend and curled gradually into the valley .
It was hotter once they reached the flat , and drier , but the grass was better .
A warm breeze played across it , moving it like waves .
A red-tailed hawk flew in behind them and stayed there , watching for any snakes or rabbits that they might stir up from the side of the road .
It took them an hour before they came to the first houses of Kelseyville .
The town was about what Wilson expected : one main street with its rows of false-fronted buildings , a water tower , a few warehouses , a single hotel ; ;
all dusty and sunbaked .
The place was quiet .
Such was my state of mind that I did not question the possibility of this ; ;
under the circumstances I was only too willing to confess all .
I was nearly thirty at the time .
I went to the hall in the afternoons only , on these preliminary matters .
It was dark and , I sensed , very large ; ;
only the counter at one end was lighted by a long fluorescent tube suspended directly above it .
Sometimes I was aware of people moving about in the darkness .
I would turn away from my writing in the hope of getting a good look at them but I never quite succeeded .
A glimpse of three of four vague figures , at the most .
Drifting here and there .
Squatting , as if waiting .
The pulsing glow of a cigarette .
Since they could see me but I not them , their presence in the hall disturbed me .
The clerk paid them no attention .
This impressed me , until I realized how limited was his sphere of influence .
His job simply consisted in registering new men .
When the phone rang he answered it .
His authority extended to the far edge of the counter , no further .
None of the men hanging around the hall bothered to speak to him .
Baldness was attacking his pate .
He spoke to me in a gruff voice , an affectation which quite belied his personality .
He wore his white shirt open at the neck , revealing a bit of scrawny pale chest underneath .
It was obvious that he wished himself different from the sort of person he thought he was .
But it was not easy for him and he often slipped .
When one of the men in the hall behind us spat on the floor and scraped his boot over the gob of spittle I noticed how the clerk winced .
I felt certain he was really a spineless little man .
His hat ( the cause of his baldness ? ?
) hung on a hook on the wall , and underneath it I could see his tie , knotted , ready to be slipped over his head , a black badge of frayed respectability that ought never to have left his neck .
The morning's tabloids were on the counter , and a stack of dog-eared men's magazines .
On a shelf in the office behind the counter was a small radio dialed permanently on a station which broadcast only vulgar commercials and cheap popular music .
Everything about the clerk was trivial .
Once , pressing him , I learned that his job was only part-time , in the afternoons when nothing went on in the hall .
Noticing my disappointment he attempted to salvage what scraps and shreds of authority he felt might still be clinging to his person .
With distaste I saw him assume a pompous air .
When he saw me coming he turned his radio off .
He made a show of rearranging my forms on the shelf .
He would pick up the ringing phone with studied negligence , then bark into it with gruff importance .
What limited knowledge he possessed he forced upon me .
In the mornings , I was informed , fluorescent tubes , similar to the one above the counter , illuminated the entire hall .
They , and the two large fans which I could dimly see as daylight filtered through their vents , down at the far end of the hall , could be turned on by a master switch situated inside the office .
He pointed out the switch to me and for a moment I foolishly believed that he would let deed follow words .
I was shown , instead , a batch of white tickets of the sort handed out , he told me , every morning .
Now , here was something of obvious importance to me , yet when I reached for the tickets he snatched them away from my hand .
He couldn't afford to have anyone mess around with them , he said .
Each of those tickets was of great value to its rightful recipient .
I withdrew my hand .
Later I would remember what this pompous little man had told me about the worth of a ticket .
Having nothing else to do except wait for my forms to be processed , I gave myself over to speculations concerning the hall itself .
When suitably lighted , what would it look like ? ?
The presence of the two exhaust fans seemed to indicate that the hall could become crowded for air .
One afternoon , upon receiving permission and the necessary instructions from the clerk , I had visited the toilet adjoining the hall .
By counting the number of stalls and urinals I attempted to form a loose estimate of how many men the hall would hold at one time .
For although I had crossed a corner of the hall on my way to the toilet I still could not tell for sure how far to the rear the darkness extended .
I could observe the two fans down at the end , but their size in themselves meant nothing to me as long as I had no measure of comparison .
I had for some time been hoping , in vain , for one of the dim figures to pass between the fan vents and myself .
I knew that three or four of them were almost always present in the hall , but what they were doing , and exactly where , I could not tell .
It was , I felt , possible that they were men who , having received no tickets for that day , had remained in the hall , to sleep perhaps , in the corners farthest removed from the counter with its overhead light .
This light did not penetrate very far back into the hall , and my eyes were hindered rather than aided by the dim daylight entering through the fan vents when I tried to pick out whatever might be lying , or squatting , on the floor below .
Also the clerk appeared to disapprove of my frequent curious glances back over my shoulder .
No sooner would I turn my head away from the counter before he would address me , at times quite sharply , in order to bring back my attention .
And I had hardly finished my business in the toilet on the aforementioned occasion when the lights in that place , like the hall lights controlled from the switch in the office , flicked off and on impatiently .
This sort of petty vigilance annoyed me .
I felt certain it was self-appointed .
It sprang from a type of mentality I'd encountered often enough but certainly had not expected to find here .
I decided to see no more of the clerk until the processing of my papers was completed .
I felt strongly attached to the hall , however , and hardly a day passed when I did not go to look at it from a distance .
I lived in a state of suspense because of it .
I could not cling to my past nor did I wish to .
I had signed it off on the forms .
My future lay solely with the hall , yet what did I know about the hall at this point ? ?
Although I had been inside it I had not yet seen it functioning .
I wished to prepare myself but did not even know what sort of clothes I ought to be wearing .
I did not despair , however ; ;
far from it ! !
I was constantly searching for clues around the neighborhood of the hall .
Though only a relatively short walk separated it from my own part of town , its character was wholly foreign to me .
Large warehouses flanked the street on which the hall fronted .
The river was only a few blocks away but an unbroken line of piers prevented me from seeing it .
Sometimes I noticed the tops of ships' masts and funnels reaching above the pier roofs .
The sounds issuing from beyond -- winches whirring , men shouting -- indicated great activity and excited me .
The hall , on the other hand , appeared lifeless and deserted on these long waterfront afternoons .
It resembled nothing I'd ever seen before .
Its front was windowless , but irregularities in the masonry might be an indication that windows , now blinded , had once looked out upon the street .
I kept circling the block hoping to see , from the street behind it , the rear of the hall .
But it was not a tall structure and other buildings concealed it .
For weeks I wandered about this neighborhood of warehouses and garages , truck terminals and taxi repair shops , gasoline pumps and longshoremen's lunch counters , yet never did I cease to feel myself a stranger there .
I returned to the hall , despite my dislike for the clerk .
As I had expected , he insisted that my visits to the hall would do nothing to further the process of my application .
Meanwhile spring had passed well into summer .
At last , when I put it to him directly , the clerk was forced to admit that the delay in my case was unusual .
When I asked him what , if anything , I could do about it , he surprised me by referring me to the director of the hall .
I could consult this personage on any weekday morning , though not before ten o'clock .
The clerk impressed this upon me : that I should not arrive in the hall before ten o'clock .
When I went for my interview with the director I saw why .
Although it was dark as usual I could see that the hall had only recently contained a great many people .
Cigarette butts littered the floor .
The big fans were going , drawing from the large room the remnants of stale smoke which drifted about in pale strata underneath the ceiling .
I had felt the draft they were making while mounting the stairs .
The staircase itself seemed still to be echoing the heavy footfalls of many men .
I stopped by the counter .
No one was behind it , but in the rear wall of the office I noticed , for the first time , a door which had been left partially open .
Past it I could see part part of a desk , a flag in a corner , a rug on the floor .
The director's office .
I rapped my knuckles on the counter .
The director came to the door .
I was at once disappointed , although just what I had expected him to look like I could not have explained .
He was a man in his late forties , with graying hair , of medium height ; ;
he looked dapper in a lightweight summer suit , brown silk tie and green-tinted soft collar .
He wore perforated , white-topped shoes ; ;
they somehow made me expect to see him launch into a vaudeville tapdance routine any moment .
But he came toward me sedately enough , showed me around the counter , offered me a seat inside his office , then walked to a file cabinet and got out my application .
I had the impression that he had read my forms , perhaps several times .
He did not look at them now .
As he lowered himself on the chair behind his desk I wondered what this dapper , slightly ridiculous man could possibly have to do with the workings of the hall .
He spoke , in a voice as immaculate as his appearance .
Why had I registered ? ?
Begging my pardon , he must express his astonishment over seeing a person of my background applying at the hall .
He had looked over my forms and was impressed by what he had seen there ; ;
indeed , my scholastic qualifications were such that he , a college graduate himself , must envy me them .
Was I sure , he asked , that I knew what I was applying for ? ?
What sort of men I would come into contact with , at the hall ? ?
These questions did not surprise me ; ;
I felt certain that the director , like the afternoon clerk , seldom moved beyond the counter , that the hall , to them , was a jungle , a dark and unwelcome place .
Though I doubted that he would understand me , I told the director my motives for applying .
I had always , I said , hankered after working hard with my hands .
This desire , I went on , growing voluble as my conviction was aroused , had mounted at such a rate recently that I now found its realization necessary not only to my physical but also to my spiritual wellbeing .
To this effect I had already severed all connections which bound me to my former existence .
The flat , hard cap was small , but he thrust it to the back of his head .
`` Tie him up '' .
`` Hell with it '' .
Before they could guess his intention Rankin stepped forward and swung the guard's own gun against the uncovered head , hard .
The man went over without sound , falling to the bare floor .
Barton said harshly , `` Why did you do that '' ? ?
Rankin sneered at him .
`` What did you want me to do , kiss him ? ?
He dumped me in solitary twice '' .
Barton caught the lighter man's shoulder and swung him around .
`` Let's get one thing straight , you and me .
The only reason we brought you was to get Miller out .
If you ever try anything without my orders I'll kill you '' .
Fred Rankin looked at him .
It seemed to Barton that the green eyes mocked him , the thin-lipped smile held insolence , but he had no time to waste now .
`` Come on .
Let's move '' .
They filed out through the guard-room door , into the paved square .
There were three other men within this prison whom Barton would have liked to liberate , but they were in other cell blocks .
There was no chance .
They moved slowly , toward the main gate , following the wall .
There was no moon .
They had chosen this night purposely .
They reached the guard house without alerting the men on the walls above , and Powers slipped through the door .
Two men were on duty inside , playing pinochle , relaxed .
They looked up in surprise as Powers came in .
`` What are you doing out of the block '' ? ?
`` It's Curtiss '' , he said , naming the man Rankin had hit .
`` I've got to have help '' .
They stared at him .
The sergeant in charge climbed to his feet .
`` What's wrong with him '' ? ?
`` He's having some kind of a fit '' .
The sergeant turned to the door .
As he passed through it Barton shoved his gun against the man's side .
`` One sound and you're dead '' .
The sergeant froze .
Powers had not followed .
Powers was covering the remaining guard .
The man half-reached for the cord of the alarm bell .
Powers knocked his arm aside .
Deliberately , with none of Rankin's viciousness , he laid the barrel of his gun alongside the guard's head .
They were free .
Even Barton could not quite believe it .
It had gone without a hitch .
They slid through the wicket in the big gate , ghosted across the dark ground .
Five minutes later they reached the horses .
Barton was relieved to see that Carl Dill and Emmett Foster had brought extra mounts .
He had been worried that with Miller and Rankin added to the escape party they would be short .
No one hurried .
They walked the horses , heading along the river , Barton and Emmett Foster in the lead , seven men riding quietly through the night .
The only thing which would have attracted attention was that two wore the uniform of prison guards , three the striped suits of convicts .
Five miles .
In a small grove against the river they halted , turning deep into the protection of the trees .
Foster had brought extra clothing also .
A good man , Emmett .
He had been one of the original Night Riders , one who had escaped the trial .
It was to him that Barton had sent Carl Dill on Dill's release from the prison .
Clyde Miller was crying softly to himself , shedding his striped suit and fumbling into the nondescript butternut pants , the worn brown shirt .
Kid Boyd was unusually silent , Rankin watchful , a few paces apart .
Barton finished his dressing and extended his hand to Powers .
`` I won't even try to thank you '' .
The ex-prison guard was embarrassed .
He said in a studied voice , `` I didn't do it for you .
I did it for the valley .
You're the only man the Night Riders will follow .
We've been starving and I don't like to starve '' .
Barton turned away , his eyes falling upon Rankin beside his horse .
`` Good luck '' .
The murderer lifted his head .
`` Meaning you want me to ride out '' ? ?
`` You aren't one of us .
There's nothing for you here '' .
`` I got no place to go '' .
Barton hesitated .
He did not trust Rankin , his violent temper , his killer instinct .
But ten years in prison had taught him realities .
They were in a fight , outweighed in both numbers and money .
It was all right to put a bunch of ranchers onto horses , to call them Night Riders , to set out to attack the largest mining combination the country had ever seen if all they wanted was adventure .
But if they really hoped to succeed they needed professionals , men who knew how to use a gun against men , who would match the killers on the other side .
`` Your choice '' , he said briefly , and turned to Kid Boyd .
`` Bury those uniforms so they won't be found '' .
Then Barton touched Carl Dill's arm and moved off , up the river bank .
He wanted a careful , uninterrupted report from Dill on the conditions in the valley .
They squatted on their heels in the deep mud and Dill found a cigar in his breast pocket , passing it over silently .
He too knew the agony of going for weeks , sometimes months without the solace of tobacco .
Mitchell Barton drew in the fragrance deeply , letting the smoke lie warm and soothing in his throat for a moment before he exhaled .
Through the gloom he could not see the man beside him clearly but he knew him thoroughly .
For his first five years in prison , they had shared a cell .
Carl Dill was neither a rancher nor a valley man .
He had been the auditor for the mining syndicate , and he had stolen fifty thousand dollars of the syndicate's money .
He had done time for the theft .
The one thing they had in common was their hatred .
Both hated Donald Kruger .
It had drawn them together , and since his release from prison Dill had worked tirelessly to effect this night's escape .
He said now , `` I've got the perfect headquarters set up .
The old Haskell mine '' .
Mitch Barton knew the place .
Twenty years before a group of Easterners had bought out the Haskell claims in the rocky hills south of Grass Valley .
They had spent a million dollars , carving in a road , putting up buildings , drilling their haulage tunnel .
Then the vein had petered out and the whole project had been abandoned .
`` The road's washed badly '' , said Dill , `` but there's a trail you can get over with a horse .
A company of cavalry couldn't come in there if two men were guarding that trail '' .
Barton nodded .
`` How do the valley people feel '' ? ?
`` As mad as ever .
But Kruger's men keep them off balance , and they don't trust me .
I'm an outsider .
When they learn you're in the hills though , they'll rally , don't worry about that '' .
Barton waited for a long moment , then asked the question which lay always uppermost in his mind .
`` My boy .
Did you find him '' ? ?
Dill was silent as if he hated to answer , and Barton had a cold , sick feeling of apprehension .
`` He's in Morgan's Ferry '' .
Barton half-straightened in surprise .
`` What's he doing there '' ? ?
Again Dill hesitated .
`` Dealing faro '' .
`` Dealing faro ? ?
How come '' ? ?
`` Your sister-in-law has the faro bank in Cap Ayres' saloon '' .
Barton cursed under his breath .
After another long pause he asked , `` How many people know who they are '' ? ?
`` Everyone .
Your cousin Finley saw to that .
He's quite a rat , you know .
He sold out to Kruger's men .
He's informed them of everything you've ever written him .
He wants your ranch '' .
Barton stood up .
He said tensely , `` All right .
Let's go get the boy '' .
Dill had come up also .
`` I was afraid of this .
I almost didn't tell you '' .
`` If you hadn't I'd have killed you '' .
Dill's voice tightened .
`` But you can't ride into the Ferry .
That's what they'll expect you to do .
They'll be there waiting for you .
I understand how you feel about the child .
''
`` The hell you do '' .
Barton's voice was rougher than Dill had ever heard it .
`` I never saw him .
My wife died in childbirth after I was sent away .
`` I can't leave him there .
Donald Kruger would like nothing better than to hold him as hostage , and I wouldn't entrust a snake to his tender care .
I've got to get the boy .
Let's ride '' .
Chapter two
Barton's men cut the telegraph wires in half a dozen places , carrying away whole sections to make repairs more difficult .
It was over an hour before their escape was discovered , but still the news that Barton was free flashed across the central portion of the state .
It reached Donald Kruger in his massive home in Burlingame .
It reached the mines at North San Juan and Bloomfield .
It brought men out of bed and sent them into hurried conferences .
For everyone involved knew that the whole valley was a powder keg , and Mitchell Barton the fuse which could send it into explosive violence .
Creighton Hague sat in his office above the Ione pit .
The office was of logs , four rooms , each heated by an iron stove .
The building was dwarfed by the scene outside .
There a dozen giant monitors played their seventy-five-foot jets of water against the huge seam of tertiary gravel which was the mountainside .
The gravel was the bed of an ancient river , buckled in some prehistoric upheaval of earth .
It was partially cemented by ages and pressure , yet it crumpled before the onslaught of the powerful streams , the force of a thousand fire hoses , and with the gold it held washed down through the long sluices .
A million dollars' of gold a month .
A million tons of rock and soil and brush .
The monitors ran twenty-four hours each day .
Their roar , like the swelling volume of a hundred tornadoes could be heard for miles .
Hague , like all who worked near the pits , was partly deafened from the constant assault against his eardrums .
He was a big man , wearing a neat flannel shirt against the cold foothill air .
Fat showed in loose rolls beneath the shirt .
Ten years older than Mitch Barton , he had clawed his way up from mucker in the pits to manager of the operation .
He was proud of his accomplishments , proud of his job , proud that Donald Kruger and his associates trusted him .
He lived and breathed for the mining company .
No man could have reached his spot nor held it without being ruthless , and Hague had made a virtue of ruthlessness all of his life .
There came a ghost of noise at the office door and Hague swung to see Kodyke in the entrance from the outer room .
Hague had never accustomed himself to Kodyke .
The man was tall , thin , with a narrow face and a too-large nose .
The eyes always held Hague , eyes of a dead man , lidless as a lizard's , with the fixed intensity of a cobra .
Even Hague was repelled by the machinelike deadliness that was Kodyke .
He knew nothing about the man's history .
Kodyke had appeared at the mine one day bearing a letter from Kruger .
Kodyke was to head the dread company police .
He ran the change rooms .
He threw out the hi-graders .
He supervised the cleanups and handled the shipments of raw gold which each week went out to San Francisco .
Hague squeezed down his uneasy dislike .
He pulled open the top drawer of his desk and drew out a tintype .
`` This is Mitchell Barton .
He broke out of Folsom last night .
Apparently he bribed one of the guards .
We want him back there or we want him dead '' .
Kodyke took the picture in a lean hand , studying it thoughtfully .
`` Dangerous '' ? ?
`` Dangerous , yes .
You know how the ranchers in the valley are .
They blame us for all their troubles .
Ten years ago they blew up some of our ditches .
It cost us a hundred thousand dollars and thirty days lost time to fix them .
We don't want Barton's Night Riders loose again '' .
The gunman nodded , slipping the picture into his breast pocket , saying nothing .
Normally Hague wasted no words , but now he found himself unable to stop their flow although he knew Kodyke was aware of all he said .
If she sensed any unusual preoccupation on the part of her mother , she did not comment upon it .
After they had finished eating , Melissa took Sprite the kitten under her arm -- `` so that Auntie Grace can teach it about the whistle '' -- and climbed into the station wagon beside her mother .
She had offered to walk , but Pamela knew she would not feel comfortable about her child until she had personally confided her to the care of the little pink woman who chose to be called `` Auntie '' .
When they reached their neighbor's house , Pamela said a few polite words to Grace and kissed Melissa lightly on the forehead , the impulse prompted by a stray thought -- of the type to which she was frequently subject these days -- that they might never see one another again .
Then she turned the station wagon around and headed it back down the hill , with the village as her ostensible destination .
As she drove , she thought about her plan .
It was really quite simple .
So simple , in fact , that it might even work -- although Pamela , now , in her new frame of mind , was careful not to pretend too much assurance .
That mistake , she thought , had cost her dearly these past few days , and she wanted to avoid falling into any more of the traps that the mountain might set for her .
She must be cautious so as not to alert the scheming forest .
When the station wagon drew abreast of the dusty dirt road that led up to the porch of the Culver house , Pamela turned the wheel , guiding the car to its familiar parking spot close to the house , and stopped .
All of her movements were careful and methodical , partaking of the stealth of a criminal who has plotted his felony for months in advance and knows exactly which step to take next in the course of the final execution of his crime .
She locked the ignition , removed the keys , stepped out of the car and went into the house .
Here , she dropped the keys on a small table beside the door and went upstairs to her bedroom .
On her bureau lay a small , brass ornament of simple design and faded engraving -- an object which , Pamela believed now , had been the property of her great-grandfather , Major Hiram Munroe Culver .
He had belonged to this land and , perhaps , had desecrated it -- and this was the only material symbol that remained of him .
If she , Pamela , were being held responsible for his crimes , then hers must be the final act of expiation .
She would return this symbol to the mountain , as one pours seed back into the soil every Spring or as ancient fertility cults demand annual human sacrifice .
Slowly and thoughtfully , she slipped the ornament into the pocket of her slacks , moved down the stairs and out of the house .
There was only one place where the mountain might receive her -- that unnamed , unnameable pool harbored in its secret bosom .
Atonement , if atonement were possible , could only be made at that sacred , sacrificial basin .
It was there that she would have to enact her renunciation , beg forgiveness .
Perhaps it was insane , Pamela thought .
Perhaps it was all a vividly conceived dream .
But she was caught in it , and she faced the terrible possibility that , if it were a dream , it was one from which she might never awaken .
Facing the forest now , she who had not dared to enter it before , walked between two trees at random and headed in what she believed was the direction of the pool .
She remembered little of her previous journey there with Grace , and she could but hope that her dedication to her mission would enable her to accomplish it .
The forest was open and freely welcoming , extending an enchanted hand .
The ground was covered with soft pine needles and the slope was gentle .
Birds chirped and chattered in the trees and the sun , all dewy-eyed and soft , caressed her shoulders warmly from time to time .
It was not , thought Pamela , such an evil place after all .
No wonder Melissa responded so completely to its beckoning .
Perhaps she had no reason to fear these trees that whispered their secrets above her head as she passed .
Was it not possible , after all , that the forest was in league with her and her child that its sympathy lay with the Culvers that she had erred in failing to understand this ? ?
Pamela felt calm and peaceful as she walked along .
The slight flutter that had disturbed the motion of her heart when she entered the forest was gone now , and even the dim groves of trees through which she occasionally passed did not reawaken her fear .
She regarded them as signs that she was nearing the glen she sought , and she was glad to at last be doing something positive in her unenunciated , undefined struggle with the mountain and its darkling inhabitants .
Having persisted too long in deliberate ignorance and denial of the forces that threatened her , Pamela was relieved now to admit their potency and to be taking definite steps toward grappling with them .
A few days ago , she would have thought such an expedition as this utterly ridiculous ; ;
today , on the contrary , it seemed utterly reasonable .
She did not pause to consider what she would do if her plan should fail ; ;
she directed all of her mental and physical energy toward achieving this one goal .
If , as she walked , her steps fumbled from time to time , she chose to ignore that omen .
If the slope grew steeper and the groves more dim , she tried not to heed .
Success depended upon maintaining her equanimity ; ;
she must be poised and proud and unafraid in order to prove to the mountain that she was in earnest .
The forest took on an impersonal aspect .
It did not care what sort of person prowled its woods , plucked at its bark or stripped the berries from its bushes .
Unconcerned , indifferent , unmotivated , the forest was simply there -- fighting man's depredations with more abundant growth and man's follies with its own musical evening laughter .
Red man or white man , pacifist or killer , the forest would accept them all -- knowing that it could thrive equally well on slaughter and beneficence ; ;
knowing that its ageless mass would always dwarf the short span of time allotted to any man .
Pamela shook her head .
She must not think about time .
That was another one of those traps .
In her grim pursuit of tranquillity , Pamela focused her thoughts on her husband .
If , when this was all over , she found the words to tell him about it , she wondered if he would ever understand .
How could he comprehend her need when he himself was innocent ? ?
Indian ghosts would not impinge upon his nights , nor would his days be haunted by the dimly-outlined , ill-conceived figure of her benighted ancestor .
His bright , daylight mind would whistle away such images ; ;
they would not dare to face his scoffing .
Pamela was glad Jim was nowhere near .
His presence would have interfered with her duty .
The mountainside grew steeper and she slipped once or twice on the smooth pine needles .
The trees huddled more closely together , their limbs and leaves intertwined in a coarse curtain against the sun .
Bushes and vines abetted the rocks in forming thorny detours for the struggling stranger , and without the direct light of the sun to act as compass , Pamela could no longer be positive of her direction .
Nevertheless , she continued to move upward .
She was sure she would reach the pool by climbing , and she clung to that belief despite the increasing number of obstacles .
The forest had become an alien world where she strove , alone , unprotected , unguided , to deal with whatever hindrances were offered .
It was a bold , dark castle of pine boughs that stood like a medieval fortress , eclipsing the sun and human time .
At one and the same time , she was within it but still searching for the drawbridge that would give her entry .
Silence came into the forest -- a solid being that clapped its hand over the murmuring mouths of the birds and the whispered comfort of the trees .
Silence walked at Pamela's side , its presence numbingly close , yet too far for her to hear .
Silence stood in front of her , waiting , and in back of her , blocking her retreat .
She stumbled over the root of a tree that protruded maliciously above the earth .
In spite of her attempt to preserve her balance , she fell , bruising her arm on a naked stone .
For a moment , she could not catch her breath and then , her breath returning in short , frightened spasms , she lifted herself to her feet laboriously .
She started to brush the dirt and bits of leaves off her clothes .
Her arm bled slightly , and the offended skin cried out in pain .
She looked around .
She was bewildered .
She seemed to have come such a long distance -- too far for her destination which had wilfully been swallowed up in the greedy gloom of the trees .
She stood quite still , trying to focus upon a direction in which to turn , a path to follow , a clue to guide her .
She was standing in a thick grove .
The trees were crowded so closely together that their branches overlapped , virtually shutting out the sun completely .
The earth smelled moist and pungent as it might in a cave deprived of the cleansing effect of the sun's rays .
She had the feeling that , under the mouldering leaves , there would be the bodies of dead animals , quietly decaying and giving their soil back to the mountain .
The thought made Pamela shudder .
A terrible chill swept through the grove .
Not a breeze exactly , but a pocket of icy air that settled with a loathsome familiarity upon the deep confines of the grove , catching Pamela in a leering embrace .
There was a peculiar density about it , a thick substance that could be sensed but never identified , never actually perceived .
Where before had she felt or dreamt or imagined such a scene ? ?
She already knew this unwholesome , chilling atmosphere that was somehow grotesquely alive .
It enclosed her clammy hands and twined around her ankles .
It crept into the open neck of her blouse and slid down her body , seeping into her flesh through all the quivering pores of her skin .
It crawled across her breasts , suffocating the life in her nipples .
It circled her thighs , exploring with its icy tentacles .
It entered her body with the ghastly intimacy of an incubus , and its particles , spreading , creeping , crawling , joined themselves into steel bands that constricted her knees so tightly that they ached ; ;
stifled her lungs so that her breath came in harsh gasps ; ;
clutched her throat and sucked up the moisture in her mouth so that her tongue was dry and hard and stuck to the roof of her mouth and her teeth were clenched together in the rigid fixture of her jaws .
She had to get away from here before this demoniac possession swallowed up the liquid of her eyes and sank into the fibers of her brain , depriving her of reason and sight .
But she did not know which way to go .
The shadows of the trees engulfed her , foreclosing every possible exit from the grove .
She had been snared here by a vile sensuality that writhed around her throat in ever-tightening circles .
She could not scream , for even if a sound could take shape within her parched mouth , who would hear , who would listen ? ?
Does the mountain listen ? ?
Pamela groped blindly .
She had to escape .
She had to move in some direction -- any direction that would take her away from this evil place .
She thrust forward through the shadows and the trees that resisted her and tried to fling her back .
Her own body protested , aching painfully where the blood in her veins had congealed , where cold demon wisps still clung and caressed .
Every movement she made seemed unnecessarily noisy .
Twigs cracked loudly under her feet ; ;
bushes swished and scratched at her slacks ; ;
tree branches snapped as she pushed them ruthlessly away from her .
Miraculously , she found exactly the right statement .
She began it deliberately , so that none of her words would be lost on him .
`` I want to tell you something Thomas DeMontez Lord .
I'm well aware that you've got a pedigree as long as my leg , and that I don't amount to anything .
But '' --
`` But it don't matter a-tall '' , Lord supplied fondly .
`` To me you'll always be the girl o' my dreams , an' the sweetest flower that grows '' .
Beaming idiotically , he pooched out his lips and attempted to kiss her .
She yanked away from him furiously .
`` You shut up ! !
Shu-tt up-pp ! !
I've got something to say to you , and by God you're going to listen .
Do you hear me ? ?
You're going to listen '' ! !
Lord nodded agreeably .
He said he wanted very much to listen .
He knew that anything a brainy little lady like her had to say would be plumb important , as well as pleasin' to the ear , and he didn't want to miss a word of it .
So would she mind speaking a little louder ? ?
`` I think you stink , Tom Lord ! !
I think you're mean and hateful and stupid , and -- louder '' ? ?
Said Joyce .
`` Uh-huh .
So I can hear you while I'm checkin' the car .
Looks like we might be in for a speck of trouble '' .
He opened the door and got out .
He waited at the car side for a moment , looking down at her expectantly .
`` Well ? ?
Wasn't you goin' to say somethin' '' ? ?
Then , helpfully , as she merely stared at him in weary silence , `` Maybe you could write it down for me , huh ? ?
Print it in real big letters , an' I can cipher it out later '' .
`` Aah , go on '' , she said .
`` Just go the hell on '' .
He grinned , nodded , and walked around to the front of the car .
Lips pursed mournfully , he stared down at its crazily sagging left side .
Then he hunkered down on the heels of his handmade boots , peered into the orderly chaos of axle , shock absorber , and spring .
He went prone on his stomach , the better to pursue his examination .
After a time , he straightened again , brushing the red Permian dust from his hands , slapping it from his six-dollar levis and his tailored , twenty-five-dollar shirt .
He wore no gun -- a strange ommission for a peace officer in this country .
Never , he'd once told Joyce , had he encountered any man or situation that called for a gun .
And he really feels that way , she thought .
That's really all he's got , all he is .
Just a big pile of self-confidence in an almost teensy package .
If I could make myself feel the same way
She studied him hopefully , yearningly ; ;
against the limitless background of sky and wasteland it was easy to confirm her analysis .
Here in the God-forsaken place , the westerly end of nowhere , Tom Lord looked almost insignificant , almost contemptible .
He was handsome , with his coal-black hair and eyes , his fine-chiseled features .
But she'd known plenty of handsomer guys , and , conceding his good looks , what was there left ? ?
He wasn't a big man ; ;
rather on the medium side .
Neither was he very powerful of build .
He could move very quickly , she knew ( although he seldom found occasion to do so ) , but he was more wiry than truly strong .
And his relatively small hands and feet gave him an almost delicate appearance .
Just nothing , she told herself .
Just so darned sure of himself that he puts the Indian sign on everyone .
But , by gosh , I want him and I'm going to have him ! !
He caught her eye , came back around the car with the boot-wearer ; ;
teetering , half-mincing walk .
Why did these yokels still wear boots , anyway , when most had scarcely sat a horse in years ? ?
He slid in at her side , tucked a cigar into his mouth , and politely proffered one to her .
`` Oh , cut it out , Tom '' ! !
She snapped .
`` Can't you stop that stupid clowning for even a minute '' ? ?
`` This ain't your brand , maybe '' , Lord suggested .
`` Or maybe you just don't feel like a cigar '' ? ?
`` I feel like getting back to town , that's what I feel like ! !
Now , are you going to take me or am I supposed to walk '' ? ?
`` Might get there faster walkin' '' , Lord drawled , `` seein' as how I got a busted front spring .
On the other hand , howsomever , maybe you wouldn't either .
I figger it's probl'y a sixty-five-mile walk , and I c'n maybe get this spring patched up in a couple of hours '' .
`` How -- with what ? ?
There's nothing out here but rattlesnakes '' .
`` Now , ain't it the truth '' ? ?
Lord laughed with secret amusement .
`` Not a danged thing but rattlesnakes , so I reckon I'll get the boss rattler to help me '' .
`` Tom ! !
For God's sake '' ! !
`` Looky '' .
He pointed , cutting her off .
`` See that wildcat '' ? ?
She saw it then , the distant derrick of the wildcat -- a test well in unexplored country .
And even with her limited knowledge of such things , she knew that the car could be repaired there ; ;
sufficiently , at least , to get them back into town .
A wildcatter had to be prepared for almost any emergency .
He had to depend on himself , since he was invariably miles and hours away from others .
`` Well , let's get going '' , she said impatiently .
`` I '' -- She broke off , frowning .
`` What did you mean by that rattlesnake gag ? ?
Getting the boss rattlesnake to help you '' ? ?
`` Why , I meant what I said '' , Lord declared .
`` What else would I mean , anyways '' ? ?
She looked at him , lips compressed .
Then , with a shrug of pretended indifference , she took a compact from her purse and went through the motions of fixing her make-up .
In his mood , it was the best way to handle him ; ;
that is , to show no curiosity whatsoever .
Otherwise , she would be baited into a tantrum -- teased and provoked until she lost control of herself , and thus lost still another battle in the maddening struggle of Tom Lord Vs. Joyce Lakewood .
The car lurched along at a snail's crawl , the left-front mudguard banging and scraping against the tire , occasionally scraping against the road itself .
Lord whistled tunelessly as he fought the steering wheel .
He seemed very pleased with himself , as though some intricate scheme was working out exactly as he had planned .
Along with this self-satisfaction , however , Joyce sensed a growing tension .
It poured out of him like an electric current , a feeling that the muscles and nerves of his fine-drawn body were coiling for action , and that that action would be all that he anticipated .
Joyce had seen him like this once before -- more than once , actually , but on one particularly memorable occasion .
That was the day that he had practically mopped up the main street of Big Sands with Aaron McBride , field boss for the Highlands Oil & Gas Company .
Tom had been laying for Aaron McBride for a long time , just waiting to catch him out of line .
McBride gave him his opportunity when he showed up in town with a pistol on his hip .
He had a legitimate reason for wearing it .
It was payday for Highlands , and he was packing a lot of money back into the oil fields .
Moreover , as long as the weapon was carried openly , the sheriff's office had made no previous issue of it .
`` So what's this all about '' ? ?
He demanded , when Lord confronted him .
I'm not the only man in town with a gun , or the only one without a permit '' .
It was the wrong thing to say .
By failing to do as he was told instantly -- to take out a permit or return the gun to his car -- he had played into Lord's hands .
The trouble was that he had virtually had to protest .
The deputy had forced him to by his manner of accosting him .
So , `` How about it '' ? ?
He said .
`` Why single me out on this permit deal '' ? ?
`` Well , I'll tell you about that '' , Lord told him .
`` We aim t' be see-lective , y'know ? ?
Don't like to bother no one unless we have to , which I figger we do , in your case .
Figger we got to be plumb careful with any of you Highlands big shots '' .
McBride reddened .
He himself had heard that there was gangster money in the company , but that had nothing to do with him .
He was an honest man doing a hard job , and the implication that he was anything else was unbearable .
`` Look , Lord '' , he said hoarsely .
`` I know you've got a grudge against me , and maybe I can't blame you .
You think that Highlands swindled you and I helped 'em do it .
But you're all wrong , man ! !
I'm no lawyer .
I just do what I'm told , and '' --
`` uh-huh .
An' that could mean trouble with a fella that's workin' for crooks .
So you get rid of that pistol right now , Mis-ter McBride .
You do that or take you out a permit right now '' .
McBride couldn't do either , of course .
Not immediately , as the deputy demanded .
Not without a face-saving respite of at least a few minutes .
To do so would make his job well-nigh impossible .
Oil-field workers were a rough-tough lot .
How could he exert authority over them -- make them toe the line , as he had to -- if he knuckled under to this small-town clown ? ?
`` I'll get around to it a little later '' , he mumbled desperately .
`` Just as soon as I go to the bank , and '' --
`` huh-uh .
Now , Mis-ter McBride '' , said Lord , and he laid a firmly restraining hand on the field boss's arm .
It was strictly the deputy's game , but McBride had gone too far to throw in .
Now , he could only play the last card in what was probably the world's coldest deck .
He flung off Lord's hand and attempted to push past him , inadvertently shoving him into a storefront .
It was practically the last move that McBride made of his own volition .
Lord slugged him in the stomach , so hard that the organ almost pressed against his spine .
Then , as he doubled , gasping , vomiting the breakfast he had so lately eaten , Lord straightened him with an uppercut .
A rabbit punch redoubled him .
And then there was a numbing blow to the heart , and another gut-flattening blow to the stomach
But he couldn't keep up with them .
No more could he defend himself against them .
He seemed to be fighting not one man but a dozen .
And he could no longer think of face-saving , of honor , but only of escape .
Why , he's going to kill me , he thought wildly .
I meant him no harm .
I've given willful hurt to no man .
I was just doing my job , just following orders , and for that he's going to kill me .
Beat me to death in front of a hundred people .
Somehow more terrible than the certainty that he was about to die was the knowledge that Lord would probably not suffer for it : the murder would go unpunished .
He , McBride , would be cited as in the wrong , and he , Lord , would go scot-free , an officer who had only done his duty , though perhaps too energetically .
McBride staggered into the street , flopped sprawling in the stinging dust .
Fear-maddened , fleeing the lengthening shadow of death , he scrambled to his feet again .
He couldn't see ; ;
he was long past the point of coherent thinking .
Dimly , he heard laughter , hoots of derision , but he could not read the racket properly .
He could not grasp that Lord had withdrawn from the fight minutes ago , and that his leaden arms were flailing at nothing but the air .
He hated them too much to understand -- the people of this isolated law-unto-itself world that was Lord's world .
This , he was sure , was the way they would act ; ;
laughing at a dying man , laughing as a man was beaten to death .
And nothing would be done about it .
Nothing unless
Donna ! !
Donna , his young wife , the girl who was both daughter and wife to him .
Donna was like he was .
She lived by the rules , never compromising , never blinded or diverted by circumstance .
And Donna would --
When he regained consciousness he was in Lord's house , in the office of Doctor Lord , the deputy's deceased father .
The Brannon outfit -- known as the Slash-B because of its brand -- reached Hondo Creek before sundown .
The herd was watered and then thrown onto a broad grass flat which was to be the first night's bedground .
Two of the new hands , a Mexican named Jose Amado and a kid known only as Laredo , were picked for the first trick of riding night herd .
The rest of the crew offsaddled their mounts and turned them into the remuda .
They got tin cups of coffee from the big pot on the coosie's fire , rolled and lighted brown-paper cigarettes , lounged about .
There was some idle talk , a listless discussion of this or that small happening during the day's drive .
But they deliberately avoided the one subject that had them all curious : the failure of the boss's wife and son to join the outfit .
It especially bothered the older hands .
The cook , Mateo Garcia , had arrived there long before the herd .
He'd started a fire and put coffee on , and now was busy at the work board of his chuck wagon .
He was readying a batch of sourdough biscuits for the Dutch oven .
Supper would be ready within the hour .
The Maguire family was setting up a separate camp nearby .
Billie had unhitched the mules from both Tom Brannon's and his father's wagon .
Hank had gathered wood for a cookfire , and his wife was busy at it now .
Conchita kept an eye on the twins and little Elena , trying to keep them from falling into the creek by which they persisted in playing .
Conchita nagged at the younger children , attempting without success to keep her thoughts off Tom Brannon .
Tom Brannon had caught up with the outfit shortly after the Maguires joined it , which had been at midday .
He'd come alone , without his wife and child .
He'd been in an angry mood : Conchita had thought his face almost ugly with the anger in him .
She wondered what had taken place in town , between him and his wife .
She wished that she could talk to her mother about it .
Not that her mother knew what had happened , but they could speculate upon it .
But her mother would rebuke her if she mentioned it , and say that it was none of her concern .
`` Pat , get out of that creek ! !
You too , Sean ! !
Elena , you'll get mud all over your dress '' ! !
Even as she called to the children , Conchita let her gaze seek Tom Brannon .
Tomas , she called him -- as the Mexican hands did .
He was in earnest conversation with her father and the old vaquero , Luis Hernandez .
Whatever they are talking about ? ?
Conchita wondered .
It bothered her that she probably would never know .
Certainly , she wouldn't dare ask her father afterward .
He would tell her not to pry into grownups' affairs -- as though she were a little kid like Elena ! !
At the moment , the three men were not saying much of anything .
They were sitting on their heels , rider-fashion , over by the still empty calf wagon .
Brannon was hunkered down with his broad back to the left rear wheel , with the other two facing him .
He held a cigarette in his right hand .
It was burning away , forgotten .
His face was clouded with unhappiness .
He'd told Hank Maguire and Luis Hernandez about his wife's refusal to come with him and about what he now intended to do .
They were considering it gravely , neither seeming to like what he planned .
Finally Hernandez said , `` I could offer you advice , Tomas , but you wouldn't heed it '' .
`` Let's hear it , anyway '' .
`` Wait a little while .
Let Senora Brannon live in her father's house for a time .
Give her time to miss you .
Maybe she will then come to you .
After all , you want the senora as much as you want the boy .
You need her even more than you need him '' .
`` She won't change her mind '' , Brannon said .
`` John Clayton will see to that '' .
`` But after a time away from you .
''
`` A year , Luis ? ?
Five ? ?
Ten ? ?
How long should I wait '' ? ?
`` Maybe in a year , Tomas .
''
`` In a year she'll like living in Clayton's house too much to come back to me '' , Brannon said flatly .
`` And the boy will be too much under his influence by then .
I've got to take Danny away from Clayton before I lose him altogether .
Hell , in a year or five or ten , the boy will have forgotten me -- his own father '' ! !
`` But to take him and leave his mother behind is not good '' .
`` In my place , you'd follow such advice as you give me '' ? ?
Hernandez looked suddenly uncertain .
`` That I can't answer , for I can't imagine something like this happening to me .
Maybe I should withdraw my advice -- no '' ? ?
Brannon looked at Hank Maguire .
`` And you ? ?
What would you do in my place '' ? ?
Hank shook his head .
`` I don't know , Tom .
Like Luis , I can't see something like this happening to me .
With Maria and me , there's never any problem .
Where I go , she goes -- and the kids with us .
You're going to need your woman .
And the boy will need his mother .
If you take the one , you'd better take both '' .
Brannon shook his head .
`` I won't force Beth to come against her will .
But I'm going to have my son '' .
They were silent for a little while , each looking glum .
Finally Luis Hernandez said , `` What must be , must be .
I am with you , of course , Tomas '' .
And Hank Maguire added , `` So am I , Tom '' .
`` All right '' , Brannon said , rising .
`` We'll ride out as soon as we've had chuck '' .
Brannon timed it so that they rode in an hour after nightfall .
They had for cover both darkness and a summer storm .
During much of the fifteen-mile ride they had watched a lurid display of lightning in the sky to the east .
Later , they'd heard the rumble of thunder and then , just outside Rockfork , they ran into rain .
Those who had slickers donned them .
The others put on old coats or ducking jackets , whichever they carried behind their saddle cantles .
There were seven of them , enough for a show of strength -- to run a bluff .
It was to be nothing more than that .
There was to be no gunplay .
If the bluff failed and they ran into trouble , Brannon had told the others , they would withdraw -- and he would come after his son another time .
He didn't want to put himself outside the law .
With him were Hank Maguire , Luis Hernandez , and Luis's son Pedro .
The Ramirez brothers were also along .
The seventh man was Red Hogan , a wiry little puncher with a wild streak and a liking for hell-raising .
They were all good men .
It was dark early , because of the storm .
Also because of the storm , the streets of Rockfork were deserted .
Lighted windows glowed jewel-bright through the downpour .
They reined in before the town marshal's office , a box-sized building on Main Street .
A lamp burned inside , but Brannon , peering through the window , saw that the office was empty .
He'd hoped to catch Jesse Macklin there .
`` Probably just stepped out '' , he said .
`` Maybe to have supper .
Red , come along .
The rest of you wait here '' .
With Red Hogan , he rode to the Welcome Cafe .
Hogan got down from the saddle and had a look inside .
`` Not there '' , he said , getting back onto his horse .
`` Maybe he's at the hotel '' .
They rode to the Rockfork House , a little farther along the opposite side of the street .
They reined in there , Brannon remaining in the saddle while Hogan went to look for Jesse Macklin in the hotel dining room .
Brannon had no slicker .
He'd put on his old brown corduroy coat and it was already soaked .
But he felt no physical discomfort .
He was only vaguely aware of the sluicing rain .
He hardly noticed the blue-green flashes of lightning and the hard claps of thunder .
Hogan reappeared , stopped on the hotel porch , lifted a hand in signal .
Brannon dismounted and climbed the steps .
`` He's finished eating '' , Hogan said .
`` Sitting with a cup of coffee now .
It shouldn't be long '' .
It seemed long , at least to Tom Brannon .
He and Hogan waited by the door , one to either side .
Macklin was the third man to come out , and he came unhurriedly .
He was puffing on a cigar , and he was turning up his coat collar against the rain .
It was not until he moved across the porch that he became aware of them , and then it was too late .
They closed in fast , kept him from reaching inside his coat for his gun .
`` Just come along '' , Brannon told him .
`` Don't start anything you can't finish '' .
`` Now , listen '' -- Macklin began .
`` We'll talk over at your office '' .
`` Brannon , I warn you '' ! !
`` Let's go , Marshal '' , Brannon said , and took him by the arm .
Hogan gripped the lawman's other arm .
They escorted him down from the porch and through the rain to his office .
The other five Slash-B men followed them inside , crowding the small room .
His face was stiff with anger when they let go of his arms .
He looked at each of them in turn , Brannon last of all .
`` I'll remember you '' , he said .
`` Every last one of you .
As for you , Brannon '' --
`` Put your gun on the desk , Marshal '' .
`` Now , hold on , damn it ; ;
I won't '' --
Red Hogan's patience ran out .
He lifted the skirt of Macklin's coat , took his gun from its holster , tossed it onto the desk .
`` Too much fooling around '' , he said .
`` Don't press your luck , badge-toter '' .
Brannon said , `` Now the key to the lockup , Marshal '' .
`` Key '' ? ?
Macklin said .
`` What for '' ? ?
`` Can't you guess '' ? ?
Brannon said .
`` We're putting you where you won't come to harm .
Come on -- the key .
Get it out '' ! !
`` Damned if I will .
Brannon , you've assaulted a law officer and '' --
They moved in on him , crowded him from all sides .
No man laid a hand on him , but the threat of violence was there .
His face took on a sudden pallor , became beaded with sweat , and he seemed to have trouble with his breathing .
He held out a moment longer , then his nerve gave under the pressure .
He swore , and said , `` All right .
It's here in my pocket '' .
`` Get it out '' , Brannon ordered .
Then , as Macklin obeyed : `` Now let's go out back '' .
Resignedly , Macklin turned to the back door .
They followed him into the rain and across to the squat stone building fifty feet to the rear .
The door of the lockup was of oak planks and banded with strap iron .
It was secured by an oversized padlock .
Macklin balked again , not wanting to unlock and open the door .
They crowded him in that threatening way once more , forced him to give in .
Once the door was open , they crowded him inside the dark building .
He was uttering threats in a low but savage voice when they closed and padlocked the door .
They returned to the street , mounted their horses , rode through the rain to the big house on Houston Street .
Its windows glowed with lamplight .
Deputy Marshal Luke Harper still stood guard on the veranda , a forlorn , scarecrowish figure in the murky dark .
He came to the edge of the veranda , peered down at them with his hand on his gun .
`` Don't try it '' , Brannon told him , dismounting and starting up the steps with his men following .
`` Don't get yourself killed for something that doesn't concern you '' .
He strode past the now frightened man , entered the house .
Miguel and Arturo Ramirez remained on the veranda to keep Harper from interfering .
The others followed Brannon inside .
They trailed him across the wide hallway to the parlor , four roughly garbed and tough-looking men who probably had never before ventured into such a house .
They brought to it all the odors that clung to men like themselves , that of their own sweat , of campfire smoke , of horses and cattle .
They tracked mud on the oaken floor , on the carpet .
Their presence fouled the elegance of that room .
And their arrival caught John Clayton and Charles Ansley off guard .
The author of the anonymous notes seemed to be all-knowing .
For men who had left cattle alone after getting their first notices had received no second .
But the day of the deadline came and passed , and the men who had scoffed at the warnings laughed with satisfaction .
For , with a single exception , nothing had happened to them .
The exception was an Iron Mountain settler named William Lewis .
After walking out to his corral that morning , he'd been amazed to see the dust puff up in front of his feet .
A split second later , the distant crack of a rifle had sounded .
He'd mounted up immediately and raced with a revolver ready toward the spot from which he'd estimated the shot had come .
But he had found all of the thickets and points of cover deserted .
There had been no sign of a rifleman and no track or trace to show that anyone had been near .
Lewis was a man who had made a full-time job of cow stealing .
He hadn't even pretended to be farming his spread .
His land had never been plowed .
He had done his rustling openly and boasted about it .
He had received both first and second anonymous notices , and each time he had accused his neighbors of writing them .
He had cursed at them and threatened them .
He was a man , those neighbors testified later , who didn't have a friend in the world .
William Lewis made the rounds of all who lived near him again , that August morning after a bullet landed at his feet , and once more he accused and threatened everyone .
`` I'll be ready next time '' ! !
He raged .
`` I'll be shootin' right back '' .
He had his chance the very next morning , for exactly the same thing happened again .
This time Lewis had his own rifle in his hands , and he threw some answering fire back at the mysterious far-off shot , then spent most of the day searching out the area .
He found nothing , but he still refused to give up and move out .
`` Just let me meet up with that damned bushwhackin' coward face-to-face '' ! !
He exploded .
`` That's all I ask '' ! !
He never got that chance .
For the unseen , ghostlike rifleman aimed a little higher the third time .
A bullet smashed directly into the center of William Lewis' chest .
He slumped against a log fence rail , then tried to lift himself .
Two more shots followed in quick succession , dropping him limp and huddled on the ground .
An inquest was held , and after a good deal of testimony about the anonymous notes , the county coroner estimated that the shooting had been done from a distance of 300 yards .
Rumors of the offer Tom Horn had made at the Stockgrowers' Association meeting had leaked out by then , and as a grand jury investigation of the murder got underway , the prosecuting attorney , a Colonel Baird , ordered that the tall stock detective be summoned for questioning .
It took some time to locate Horn .
He was finally found in the Bates Hole region of Natrona County , two counties away .
Prosecutor Baird immediately assumed he was hiding out there after the shooting and began preparing an indictment .
But that indictment was never made .
For Tom Horn , it turned out , had a number of rancher and cowboy witnesses ready and willing to swear with straight faces that he had been in Bates Hole the day of the killing .
The former scout's alibi couldn't be shaken .
The authorities had to release him .
He immediately rode on to Cheyenne , threw a ten-day drinking spree and dropped some very strong hints among friends .
`` Dead center at three hundred yards , that coroner said '' ! !
He'd grin .
`` Three shots in that fella 'fore he hit the ground ! !
You reckon there's two men in this state can shoot like that '' ? ?
Publicly , he denied everything .
Privately , he created and magnified an image of himself as a hired assassin .
For a blood-chilling ring of terror to the very sound of his name was the tool he needed for the job he'd promised to do .
Tom Horn was soon back at work , giving his secret employers their money's worth .
A good many beef-hungry settlers were accepting the death of William Lewis as proof that the warning notes were not idle threats .
The company herds were being raided less often , and cabins and soddies all over the range were standing deserted .
But there were other homesteaders who passed the Lewis murder off as a personal grudge killing , the work of one of his neighbors .
The rustling problem was by no means solved .
Even in the very area where the shooting had been done , cattle were still disappearing .
For less than a dozen miles from the unplowed land of the dead man lived another settler who had ignored the warnings that his existence might be foreclosed on -- a blatant and defiant rustler named Fred Powell .
`` Fred was mighty crude about the way he took in cattle '' his own hired man , Andy Ross , mentioned later .
`` Everyone knew it , but he sort of acted like he didn't care who knew it -- even after them notes came , even after he'd heard about Lewis , even after he'd been shot at a couple o' times hisself '' ! !
On the morning of September 10 , 1895 , Powell and Ross rose at dawn and began their day's work .
Haying time was close at hand , and they needed some strong branches to repair a hay rack .
Harnessing a team to a buckboard , they drove out to a willow-lined creek about a half-mile off , then climbed down and began chopping .
Andy Ross had just started swinging an ax at his second willow when the distant blast of a rifle sounded .
He looked around in surprise , then noticed that Fred Powell was clutching his chest .
The hired man ran over to help his boss .
`` My God , I'm shot '' ! !
Powell gasped .
And he collapsed and died instantly .
Ross had no intention of searching for the assassin .
He heaved the dead man onto the buckboard , yelled and lashed at the team and got out of there fast .
But he brought back the sheriff and several deputies , and to the lawmen the entire affair seemed a repetition of the Lewis killing .
A detailed scouring of the entire area revealed nothing beyond a ledge of rocks that might have been the rifleman's hiding place .
There were no tracks of either hoofs or boots .
Not even an empty cartridge case could be found .
Once again , Tom Horn was the first and most likely suspect , and he was brought in for questioning immediately .
Once again , he shook his head , kept his face expressionless and his voice very calm , and had a strongly supported alibi ready .
Later , riding in for some lusty enjoyment of the liquor and professional ladies of Cheyenne , he laid claim to the killing with the vague insinuations he made .
`` Exterminatin' cow thieves is just a business proposition with me '' , he'd blandly announce .
`` And I sort o' got a corner on the market '' .
`` Tom '' , a friend asked him once , `` how come you bushwhacked them rustlers ? ?
They wouldn't o' stood no chance with you in a plain , straight-out shoot-down '' .
He had lots of friends , then as always .
Even as he became widely known as a professional killer , nearly every cowboy and rancher in Wyoming seemed proud to call him a friend .
No man's name brought more cheers when it was announced in a rodeo .
`` Well '' , he explained , `` s'posin' you was a nester swingin' the long rope ? ?
Which would you be most scairt of -- a dry-gulchin' or a shoot-down '' ? ?
`` Yeah , I can see that '' , the friend was forced to agree .
`` But well , it just don't seem sportin' somehow '' ! !
`` Sportin' '' ! !
The tall sunburnt rustler-hunter stared in amazement .
`` Sportin' '' ! !
He echoed again in soft wonder .
`` I seen a lot o' things in my time .
I found a trooper once the Apache had spread-eagled on an ant hill , and another time we ran across some teamsters they'd caught , tied upside down on their own wagon wheels over little fires until their brains was exploded right out o' their skulls .
I heard o' Texas cattlemen wrappin' a cow thief up in green hides and lettin' the sun shrink 'em and squeeze him to death .
But there's one thing I never seen or heard of , one thing I just don't think there is , and that's a sportin' way o' killin' a man '' ! !
After the first two murders , the warning notes were rarely ignored .
The lesson had been learned .
The examples were plain .
When Fred Powell's brother-in-law , Charlie Keane , moved into the dead man's home , the anonymous letter writer took no chances on Charlie taking up where Fred had left off and wasted no time on a first notice :
If you don't leave this country within 3 days , your life will be taken the same as Powell's was .
This was the message found tacked to the cabin door .
Keane left , within three days .
All through Albany and Laramie counties , other men were doing the same .
Houses of settlers who'd treated the company herds as a natural resource , free for the taking , were sitting empty , with weeds growing high in their yards .
The small half-heartedly tended fields of men who'd spent more time rustling cattle than farming were lying fallow .
No cow thief could count on a jury of his sympathetic peers to free him any longer .
Jury , judge and executioner were riding the range in the form of a single unknown figure that could materialize anywhere , at any time , to dispense an ancient brand of justice the men of the new West had believed long outdated .
For three straight years , Tom Horn patrolled the southern Wyoming pastures , and how many men he killed after Lewis and Powell ( if he killed Lewis and Powell ) will never be known .
It is possible , although highly doubtful , that he killed none at all but merely let his reputation work for him by privately claiming every unsolved murder in the state .
It is also possible , but equally doubtful , that he actually shot down the hundreds of men with which his legend credits him .
For that legend was growing explosively , Rumor was insisting he received a price of $600 a man .
( The best evidence is that he received a monthly wage of about $125 , very good money in an era when top hands worked for $30 and found .
) Rumor had it he slipped two small rocks under each victim's head as a sort of trademark .
( A detailed search of old coroner's reports fails to substantiate this in the slightest .
)
One thing was certain -- his method was effective , so effective that after a time even the warning notices were often unnecessary .
The mere fact that the tall figure with the rifle and field glasses had been seen riding that way was enough to frighten three rustling homesteaders out of the Upper Laramie country in a single week .
`` My reputation's my stock in trade '' , Tom mentioned more than once .
He evidently couldn't foresee that it might be his downfall in the end .
He had made himself the personification of the Devil to the homesteaders .
But to the cattlemen who had been facing bankruptcy from rustling losses and to the cowboys who had been faced with lay-offs a few years earlier , he was becoming a vastly different type of legendary figure .
Such ranchers as Coble and Clay and the Bosler brothers carried him on their books as a cowhand even while he was receiving a much larger salary from parties unknown .
He made their spreads his headquarters , and he helped out in their roundups .
In the cow camps , Tom Horn was regarded as a hero , as the same kind of champion he was when he entered and invariably won the local rodeos .
The hands and their bosses saw him as a lone knight of the range , waging a dedicated crusade against a lawless new society that was threatening a beloved way of life .
The wailing , guitar-strumming minstrels of the cattle kingdom made up songs about him .
By 1898 , rustling losses had been driven down to the lowest level ever seen in Wyoming .
When several minutes had passed and Curt hadn't emerged from the livery stable , Brenner reentered the hotel and faced Summers across the counter .
`` I have a little job for you , Charlie .
I'm sure you won't mind doing me a small favor '' .
Brenner's voice was oily , but Summers wasn't fooled .
He moistened his lips uneasily .
`` What is it you want me to do , Mr. Brenner '' ? ?
Brenner shrugged carelessly .
`` It's very simple .
I just want you to take a message to Diane Molinari .
Tell her to come here to the hotel '' .
Vastly relieved , Summers nodded and started toward the door .
`` One thing , Summers '' , Brenner said .
`` You're not to mention my name .
Tell her Curt Adams wants to see her '' .
Summers pulled up short , and turned around .
`` I don't know , Mr. Brenner '' , he said haltingly , beginning to get an inkling of Brenner's plans .
`` It doesn't seem quite right , telling her a thing like that .
Couldn't I just '' -- His voice trailed off into silence .
Brenner continued to smile , but his eyes were cold .
He turned and looked around at the lobby as though seeing things he hadn't before noticed .
`` You know , Summers '' , he said thoughtfully .
`` Eagle's Nest ought to have a fire company .
If someone were to drop a match in here , this place would go up like a haystack '' .
He started toward the stairway , then turned to add , `` Tell her to come to Adams's room , that Adams is in trouble .
Tell her to hurry '' .
`` Yes sir '' .
His face pale , Summers headed for the street .
Curt's visit to the livery stable had been merely a precaution in case anyone should be watching .
He paused only long enough to ascertain that Jess's buckskin was still missing and that his own gray was all right , then climbed through a back window and dropped to the ground outside .
The fact that Jess's horse had not been returned to its stall could indicate that Diane's information had been wrong , but Curt didn't interpret it this way .
A man like Jess would want to have a ready means of escape in case it was needed .
Probably his horse would be close to where he was hiding .
From the back of the barn it was a simple matter to reach Black's house without using the street .
Curt approached the place cautiously , and watched it several minutes from the protection of a grove of trees .
There was a light in Black's front room , but drawn curtains prevented any view of the interior .
Curt circled the house and located a barn out back .
He could hear horses moving around inside , and nothing else .
There was no lock on the door , only an iron hook which he unfastened .
He opened the door and went in , pulling it shut behind him .
Again he stood in the darkness listening , but there was only the scrape of a shod hoof on a plank floor .
He moved ahead carefully , his left hand in front of him , and came to a wooden partition .
Horse smell was very strong , and he could hear the crunch of grain being ground between strong jaws .
He found a match in his pocket and lit it .
There were two horses in the barn , a sway-backed dun and Jess Crouch's buckskin .
Curt snuffed out the match .
It was certain now that Jess was in the house , but also , presumably , was Stacey Black .
Curt wanted to get Jess alone , without interference from anyone , even as spineless a person as the store owner .
He studied the problem for a few seconds and thought of a means by which it might be solved .
Reaching across the side of the stall , he slapped the buckskin on the rump .
The startled animal let out a terrified squeal and thrashed around in the stall .
As Curt had hoped , the house door banged open .
He slapped the buckskin again and it kicked wildly , its hoofs rattling the side of the stall .
Curt moved over beside the door and waited .
Presently he heard footsteps crossing the yard , and Jess's smothered curses .
The door swung open , and Jess said sourly , `` What the hell's the matter with you ? ?
''
The horse continued to snort .
Curt doubted that any animal belonging to Jess would find much reassurance in its owner's voice .
Jess cursed again , and entered the barn .
A match flared , and he reached above his head to light a lantern which hung from a wire loop .
As he crossed to the side of the stall , Curt drew his gun and clicked back the hammer .
`` Before you try anything '' , he said .
`` Remember what happened to Gruller '' .
Jess caught his breath in surprise .
He started to reach for his gun , but apparently thought better of it .
`` That's the stuff '' , Curt said .
`` Just hold it that way '' .
He reached out to pull the door shut and fasten it with a sliding bolt .
`` You and I have a little talking to do , Jess .
You won't be needing this '' .
He moved up and lifted Jess's pistol out of its holster .
`` Damn you , Adams '' -- Jess was beginning to recover from his initial shock .
`` We ain't got nothing to talk about .
If I don't come back in the house , Breed's going to '' --
`` Your trigger-happy brother isn't in the house .
About now he's probably having supper .
That long ride the four of you took must've given him a good appetite .
Now turn around so I can see your face '' .
Jess turned .
There was raw fury in his eyes , and the veins of his neck were swollen .
`` You're about as dumb as they come , Adams .
I don't know what you're up to , but when Brenner '' --
`` You can forget about Brenner , too '' , Curt said .
`` It's Ben Arbuckle we're going to talk about '' .
`` Arbuckle '' ? ?
Jess stiffened .
`` I don't know nothin' about him '' .
`` No ? ?
I suppose you don't know anything about a piece of two-by-four , either ; ;
one with blood all over it , Arbuckle's blood '' .
Curt's fingers put a little more pressure on the trigger of his gun .
`` So help me , Crouch , I'd like to kill you where you stand , but , before I do , I'm going to hear you admit killing him .
Now start talking .
Who told you to do it ? ?
Was it Dutch Brenner '' ? ?
Curt was holding Jess's gun in his left hand .
He drew back his arm to slash the gunbarrel across Jess's face , but didn't finish the motion .
Pistol-whipping an unarmed man might come easy to someone like Jess , but Curt couldn't bring himself to do it .
Apparently sensing this , and realizing that it gave him an advantage , Jess became bold .
`` Having all the guns makes you a big man , don't it , Adams ? ?
If we was both armed , you wouldn't talk so tough '' .
`` No '' ? ?
Curt reached out and dropped Jess's pistol back into the holster .
He retreated a step and holstered his own .
`` All right , Crouch ; ;
we're on even terms .
Now draw '' ! !
Sweat bubbled out on Jess's swarthy face .
The fingers of his right hand twisted into a claw , but he didn't reach for the gun .
Curt , angry enough to be a little reckless , raised his hands shoulder high .
`` Does this make it any easier , coward '' ? ?
`` I ain't drawin' against you '' , Jess said thickly .
`` I heard how you outdrew Chico .
I ain't a gunslinger '' .
`` No .
You're the kind of bastard who sneaks up on a man from behind and hits him with a club .
I just wanted to hear you say so '' .
Jess stared at him without answering and let his hands fall to his sides .
He had found Curt's weakness , or what to Jess was a weakness , and was smart enough to take advantage of it .
Somewhere in the distance , a woman screamed .
Curt was too involved in his own problems to pay much attention .
He had to make Jess talk , and he had to do it before Stacey Black got curious and came to investigate .
Once more he lifted Jess's gun from its holster , only this time he tossed it into the stall with the frightened buckskin .
He dropped his own beside it .
`` We'll do it another way , then '' , he said harshly .
Jess's coarse features twisted in a surprised grin which was smashed out of shape by Curt's fist .
With a roar of pain and fury Jess made his attack .
Curt managed to duck beneath the man's flailing fist , and drove home a solid left to Jess's mid-section .
It was like hitting a sack of salt .
Pain shot up Curt's arm clear to the shoulder , but Jess seemed hardly aware that he had been hit .
He slammed into the wall , bounced back , and caught Curt with a roundhouse right which sent him spinning .
An inch lower and it would have knocked him out .
As it was , his vision blurred and for a moment he was unable to move .
When his eyes began to focus , he saw Jess charging at him with a pitchfork .
Curt twisted to one side , and the tines of the fork bit into the floor .
Jess wasted a few seconds trying to yank them loose .
It gave Curt time to stagger to his feet .
The tines broke off under Jess's twisting , and he swung the handle in an attempt to knock Curt's brains out .
His aim was hurried ; ;
so the pitchfork whistled over Curt's head .
By now Curt was seeing clearly again .
He stepped inside Jess's guard and landed two blows to the big man's belly , putting everything he had behind them .
They made Jess double over .
When his head came down , Curt grabbed him by the hair and catapulted him head first into the wall .
The building shook , setting the lantern to swaying , and the buckskin to pitching again .
Even Black's old crowbait began to snort , and from the house Black yelled , `` Jess ! !
What's going on out there '' ? ?
Jess didn't seem too sure himself .
He lurched drunkenly to his feet , lowered his head , and took one step away from the wall .
Curt caught him flush on the nose with a blow which started at the floor .
Jess had had enough .
Blood gushed from his nose , and he backed off as rapidly as he could , stumbling over his own feet in his frantic haste to get away from Curt's fists .
Curt was in almost as bad shape , but he wouldn't quit .
He backed Jess into a corner , grabbed a handful of the man's shirtfront , and drew back his right fist .
`` Tell me about Arbuckle ! !
You killed him , didn't you '' ? ?
`` It was Brenner's idea '' , Jess mumbled , dabbing at his nose .
`` He found out about you and Arbuckle talking .
He wanted to show the town what happened to anyone who tried to start trouble '' .
`` You mean anyone who stood up for his rights '' , Curt said .
He let go of the shirt , and Jess slumped to the floor .
Turning his back , Curt crossed to the stall , reached over to untie the buckskin's halter rope , and waved his hand in the animal's face .
The buckskin bolted out of the stall .
Curt moved in and picked up his gun .
He shook loose straw out of the action , and placed the gun in his holster .
Leaving Jess's where it lay , he left the stall .
`` Get up , Crouch .
We're going someplace '' .
Jess painfully got to his feet as someone rattled the door .
`` Who's in there '' ? ?
Black called fearfully .
Curt opened the door , grabbed Black by the shoulder , and pulled him into the barn .
`` You're staying right here for a while .
This dirty coward just admitted killing Arbuckle .
I'm going to let him tell it to somebody else '' .
He shoved Black toward the stall , and pointed his pistol at Jess .
`` Get out of here .
You're coming along peacefully , or I'll put a bullet in your leg '' .
Jess stumbled through the door .
Curt followed , reaching behind him to shut the door and hook it .
Black would have little trouble getting out , but it might delay him a few minutes .
`` Where're you takin' me '' ? ?
Jess asked worriedly .
`` We're going to Marshal Woods's house .
Maybe if the marshal hears this himself , it'll make a difference .
Somebody in this town must still have some backbone '' .
Over his shoulder he could see Max's loose grin and the Burnsides' glowering faces .
`` Honey '' , he whispered .
`` Soon as we send them on their way and make camp , let's you and me go for a walk down by the Snake -- all by ourselves '' .
`` Sally '' , admonished her mother , `` you've got all evening to visit with Dan .
His wounds need dressing now '' .
Mrs. Jackson's words recalled Dan to his lack of fitness for courting .
What a spectacle he was , caked with dirt and sweat and blood , filthy as a pig and naked as an Indian , kissing the finest , the sweetest , the bravest , and absolutely the prettiest girl in this whole wonderful world .
He released her reluctantly for her enthusiastic reunion with Old Hap .
`` Got a lot to tend to , but I'll get back quick as I can '' , he assured her .
Dan could hear Clayton Burnside and Eben Jackson summing up their final reckoning for rental on the oxen .
Jackson was doing most of the talking .
So long as Sally's pa was coming out best on the haggle , Dan didn't feel the need of putting in his two-bits' worth .
Soon as the Burnsides moved on , he'd lead Rex down by the river ; ;
there he could shave and scrub himself up for the evening .
Damn it , he thought bitterly , picking up his shirt and staring at the fresh bullet hole in the sleeve .
If I hadn't got Nate stopped when I did , my duds'd all be shot plumb to hell ! !
He stooped , picked up his ruined hat , and pursed his lips thoughtfully .
From the way the wound in his head was itching , Dan knew that it would heal .
But his only hat was something else again .
`` Nate ! !
Nate '' ! !
He shouted .
The Burnsides , now ready to roll , were purposefully deaf to his cry .
`` Nate '' ! !
He bellowed to the retreating back directly in front of him .
`` I ain't going to fight you no more '' .
Nate turned his head , attempting to speak in a soothing voice .
`` I know you ain't '' ! !
Dan affirmed , feeling ten feet tall .
He moved in close , jerked the handsome , broad-brimmed beaver hat from Nate's head and clamped it on his own .
`` Here's a present for you '' , he said , shoving his bullet-riddled hat down over Nate's purpling forehead .
`` Me and you's trading hats so's you'll have something permanent to remember me by '' ! !
Sally left her choring to stand beside Dan .
Slipping her hand in his , they silently watched the Burnsides make the bend in the road and disappear from sight .
Much as they had to look forward to , they didn't begrudge a moment of the time they spent seeing them go .
At first Matilda could not believe her own eyes .
She had spent too many hours looking ahead , hoping and longing to catch even a glimpse of Dan and finding nothing but emptiness .
And now she could see him , looking uncommon handsome , standing there beside Sally Jackson and her folks in front of their trail-worn wagon .
Seeing them waiting there at the foot of Emigrant Rock was so overwhelming that , for a good minute after they rounded the bend and started down the grade leading toward them , Matilda could not speak at all .
Then , with a glory that almost wiped out the deep , downward sags in her careworn face , Matilda leaned over the wheel and shouted to Hez , who was stumbling along in the heat and the dust on the opposite side of the wagon `` Pa ! !
Pa ! !
I can see Dan .
And he's with the Jacksons '' ! !
`` What about Burnsides '' ? ?
Hez asked , who still believed they'd have them to lick .
`` They ain't even in sight '' ! !
She replied .
By then Hez could see for himself , and so could the others .
Soon they were all shouting greetings , exchanging smiles , and rejoicing to think that they were all back together again .
But even a reunion as joyous as this one did not make a break in the routines of the day .
Nor could they stop and find out about all that had happened until they made circle , tended the cattle , tethered the horses , gathered fuel , carried water , and started their cooking fires .
Then , and only then , with the Jacksons and Dan as their true guests of honor , did the Harrows take time to catch up on the news .
No sooner did they hear of Dan's injury than both Gran and Matilda went into immediate action .
The wound in his scalp was examined , pronounced healing , and well doctored with simples , before they dished up the victuals .
From then on , in keeping with the traditions they had followed since childhood , the whole group settled down to relish their food .
Even Sally , in spite of her gaiety and obvious welcome , followed the old taboo of `` quitting the gab when wearing the nosebag '' .
After their supper , the evening turned into a regular `` Hoe-Down '' .
Only , they carefully substituted old country folk dances for the Virginia Reels and square dances that were so popular among more worldly trains in the great westward migration .
But with Bill O'Connor on the fiddle , and Gran Harrow exuberantly shouting `` Glory Be '' and `` Hallelujah '' above their united chant of the lilting old ballads , they played their quaint folk games with all the fervor and abandon of a real celebration .
`` Golly '' , Rod exclaimed to Harmony as he dutifully stood by her side among the ringed spectators , `` don't that fiddle make you wish the Bible didn't say us Baptists can't dance '' ? ?
`` Nor Methodists , neither '' , she replied .
`` Not that it matters to me , being this far along '' .
Rod gave her a warm pat on the shoulder before he replied .
`` Come spring , you'll be kicking up your heels and feeling coltish again too , gal '' .
At these words of sympathy and understanding , Harmony said generously , `` I don't mind setting here along with Gran while you go out and join in the games '' .
Rod shifted his eager eyes from the milling group out in the circle long enough to reply , `` I ain't much of a hand for Dare-Base and Farmer-in-the-Dell , but I'd sure like to get in on the handhold and wrestles '' .
He looked down at his big hands and slowly flexed his long fingers .
`` Don't reckon there's nobody out there , 'cept maybe Dan , who can outgrip me , Harmony '' .
With Rod on his way and Matilda visiting with Mrs. Jackson while they searched out familiar names on the face of the cliff , Harmony settled on the edge of the grub box , to ease the pressure of her swollen body on her bone-weary legs , and worried about all that might have happened to Sally .
And she was deeply thankful that she could see her now , out there in the midst of a gay , youthful circle , skipping and singing , `` Farmer in the dell , Farmer in the dell , Heigh-ho the dairy-oh , the farmer in the dell '' .
At the sight of Sally's happy face and carefree expression , Harmony's dark , brooding eyes quickly brightened with unshed tears .
She was glad , completely and unselfishly glad , to see that things were working out the right way for both Sally and Dan .
And she really tried to go a step further and say she hoped they'd be just as right as they now were for her and for Rod .
But she couldn't , not yet .
Not with the memory of her folks and the lost Conestoga still holding her close .
Out in the center of the circle the farmer , who was Dan , wasted no time when they came to the line , `` The farmer choose his wife '' .
With a swift swoop of his big arms , he grabbed Sally out of the circle surrounding him , and then kissed her soundly before setting her down so she could stand by his side while they jointly chose the rest of their `` outfit '' .
Soon the child , the dog , the cat and even the cheese , all joined them out there in the circle .
By now Harmony could see that most of the adults in the train were winded and resting , or else siphoned off from the games by the challenging lure of the great cliff towering above them .
No matter how many registry rocks they came to on this journey , each one exerted its own appeal .
Even strange names seemed to make them feel closer to some kind of civilization when stumbled across out here in this wilderness .
Already a few hardy folk from their own train were zealously chipping away at the register rocks , leaving their own records along with those made by the earlier trains .
Soon she saw Rod and Hez moving over to join them .
No sooner were they through and the guards posted , than the whole camp turned in for a night of sound sleep .
For Matilda , it was the first she had known in many a night .
Even the knowledge that she was losing another boy , as a mother always does when a marriage is made , did not prevent her from having the first carefree , dreamless sleep that she had known since they dropped down the canyon and into Bear Valley , way , way back there when they were crossing those other mountains .
Next morning , they moved on again .
`` My souls' a-gracious '' ! !
Gran Harrow exclaimed , watching their rippling muscles as Rod and Dan swung her up into the load .
`` A body would swear I floated right up here on a cloud '' ! !
Rod and Dan released their holds on the arms of her hickory rocker and exchanged embarrassed grins .
`` Shucks , Gran '' , they said almost in unison .
`` That wasn't nothing at all '' ! !
Leaning forward in her chair , Gran nearsightedly scrutinized Dan's face .
`` How's Sally like rubbin' agin that thar little ticklebrush ye're a-raising '' ? ?
`` Quit ragging him , Gran '' , Rod protested .
`` I ain't ragging him '' ! !
Gran peered again at the week-old blond mustache shadowing Dan's upper lip .
`` But honest-to-Betsy , I've seed more hair than that on a piece o' bacon '' .
The two tall brothers waited silently while their mother handed Gran her cold snack and water jug , placed the chamber pot beside her feet , and returned to her place at the front of the wagon with Alice .
`` Rheumatics worse , Pa '' ? ?
Dan asked Hez , who had limped back from his team to hold the notched-stick chair braces in place while his boys swung up the tailgate and tied it tight at the ends .
`` My right leg's stiff as a board this morning '' , he replied .
`` But the sun'll fry it out'n me onct we git to rolling '' .
The three men stepped out to the side to wait for Captain Clemens' signal .
Hez looked up at the high face of Emigrant Rock , official signboard for the Raft River turnoff , and gloated , `` Seems funny that them Burnsides never took time to leave their John-Henry up thar '' .
`` Wonder what made them hurry so '' , Rod drawled , giving Dan a sly wink .
Dan grinned , and changed the subject .
`` From now on , Sally and me and her folks aim to give you our turn when it comes up and fall in behind you and Rod's outfit '' .
`` Ain't no sense you eating our dust '' , Rod protested .
`` Sally and her ma want to trade off on account of Harmony being so far along '' , Dan explained .
`` Jackson recruited his critters , and him and me fixed up his wagon while we was waiting for you to catch up .
He's got the tightest running gear in the train now .
Besides , 'tain't no more'n right for me to follow with my black oxen , so's I can unhook and pull up fast if either of you get in a pinch '' .
Captain Clemens' signal shot sent the men hurrying to their waiting teams .
`` Reckon ye're right , Dan '' , Hez called back over his shoulder .
`` I'll shore be needing ye both on the pull out o' the canyon '' .
Rod looked apprehensively ahead at the narrowing , precipice-walled gorge .
`` We'll double teams zigzagging up the mountain , Harmony '' , he spoke reassuringly , concerned by the pinched look around her mouth .
`` Like enough we'll all be up on top by sundown '' .
Out of the corner of his eye , he could see his father's wheels beginning to turn .
Before Harmony had a chance to reply , Rod cracked his long whip over his thin oxen's backs .
While no larger than Dutch Springs , this mining supply town had the appearance of being far busier and more prosperous .
Men crowded the streets and freight rigs and teams were moving about .
Although they were forced to maintain a sharper watch , this activity enabled them to ride in and rack their broncs without any particular attention being paid them .
`` Gyp'll be holdin' forth in some bar if he's here at all '' , Cobb declared , glancing along the street as they stretched their legs .
There were no less than six or seven saloons in Ganado , not counting the lower class dives , all vying for the trade of celebrating miners and teamsters .
Pat only nodded .
`` Take one side of the street , and I'll take the other '' , he proposed .
`` If you spot Carmer give a yell before you move in '' .
Cobb's assent was tight .
`` You do the same .
It's all I ask , Stevens '' .
Separating , they took different sides of the main drag and systematically combed the bars .
Russ visited two places without result and his blood pressure was down to zero .
Suddenly it seemed to him insane that they might hope to locate Gyp Carmer so casually , even were he to prove the thief .
He tramped out of the Miners Rest with his hopes plummeting , and headed doggedly for the Palace Saloon , the last place of any consequence on this side of the street .
The Palace was an elaborate establishment , built practically on stilts in front , with long flights of wooden steps running up to the porch .
Behind its ornate facade the notorious dive clung like a bird's nest to the rocky ribs of the canyonside .
Russ ran up the steps quickly to the plank porch .
The front windows of the place were long and narrow , reaching nearly to the floor and affording an unusually good view of the interior .
Heading for the batwings , Cobb glanced perfunctorily through the nearest window , and suddenly dodged aside .
Nerves tight as a bowstring , he paused to gather his wits .
Against all expectation , Carmer was inside , clearly enjoying himself to the hilt and already so tipsy that it seemed unlikely he was bothering to note anything or anyone about him .
Fierce anger surged through Russ .
He fought down the impulse to rush in and collar the vicious puncher on the spot .
Reaching the porch rail beyond view of the bar windows , he feverishly scanned the busy street below .
Stevens was nowhere in sight .
Muffling an exclamation , Russ sprang to the nearest steps and ran down .
As luck had it , he had not gone twenty feet in the street before Pat appeared .
`` What luck , Cobb '' ? ?
He said swiftly .
Russ pointed upward .
`` He's there '' , he got out tersely , curbing his rising excitement .
Hitching his cartridge belt around , Pat glanced upward briefly at the Palace and started that way with Cobb at his side .
Climbing the steps steadily , they reached the top and headed for the door .
Pat pushed through first .
Forced behind him momentarily , Russ followed at once and halted two steps inside .
His eyes widened .
While five minutes ago the place had presented a scene of easy revelry , with Gyp Carmer a prominent figure , it was now as somnolent and dull as the day before payday .
Carmer himself was nowhere to be seen .
A man knocked the roulette ball about idly in its track , and another dozed at one of the card tables .
Two men murmured with their heads together at the end of the bar , while the sleek-headed bartender absently polished a glass .
Looking the setup over , Stevens started coolly for the rear of the place .
`` Where yuh goin' '' ? ?
It was the barkeep .
Halting , Pat turned to survey him deliberately .
He did not reply , going on toward the back .
Less assured than the tall , wide-shouldered man in the lead , Cobb followed alertly , a hand on his gun butt .
The bartender measured this situation with heavy eyes and decided he wanted no part of it .
He said no more .
A hall opened in back of the bar , running toward an ell .
Pat moved into it .
Small rooms , probably for cards , opened off on either side .
All the doors were open at this hour except one , and it was toward this that Stevens made his way with Russ close at his shoulder .
The door was locked .
A single kick made it spring open , shuddering .
Pat saw Gyp Carmer staggering forward , a half-filled bottle upraised as if to strike .
Russ sprang through to bat it nimbly aside .
With a bellow Carmer lunged at him .
But he was more than half-drunk , and his faculties were dulled .
Cobb unleashed a single powerful jab that sent Gyp reeling wildly and crashing down with a whining groan .
He started to struggle up , heaving desperately .
Russ gave him a brutal thrust that tumbled him over flat on his stomach .
Kneeling , Cobb planted a sturdy knee in the small of his back , holding him pinned .
`` Okay , Stevens .
I've drawn his fangs '' , he snapped .
`` Go through his pockets , will you ? ?
If we have to we'll take him apart and see what he's made of '' ! !
Complying methodically , Pat pulled pocket after pocket inside out without finding a thing .
Cobb watched this with hunted eyes , his desperate hope waning by the moment .
Stevens was grunting over the last empty pocket when Russ abruptly rose and lunged toward Carmer's hat , which had tumbled half-a-dozen feet away when he first fell .
Cobb got it .
Straightening up , his eyes ablaze , he held out the battered Stetson .
`` Look at this '' ! !
Inside the crown , stuffed behind the stained sweatband , could be seen thin , crumpled wads of currency .
Carmer's ingenious cache for his loot had been found .
`` By golly , Stevens ! !
You were right '' , Russ exclaimed , tearing the loose bills out of Carmer's hat .
`` That is , if we can be sure this is Colcord's money '' --
Pat grunted .
`` Where else would he get it ? ?
Count what you've got there , Cobb .
We can soon tell '' .
Russ ran through the bills and named an amount it was highly unlikely any cowpuncher would come by honestly .
Pat nodded .
`` It's within a hundred of what Crip had '' , he declared .
`` We know Penny spent some -- and Carmer must have dropped a few dollars getting that load on '' .
Handing the money over , Russ wiped his hands on his pants-legs as if ridding himself of something unclean .
His glance at Gyp Carmer was disdainful .
`` Shall we get out of here '' ? ?
Leaving the card room , they moved back through the Palace the way they had come .
Glowering looks met them in the bar , but there was no attempt to halt them .
Pausing in the outside door to glance behind him , Pat looked his unspoken warning and stepped out .
He and Cobb clattered down the high steps to the street .
Neither spoke till they reached their horses .
Pat paused there , looking across at the young fellow .
It'll be a pleasure for you to return this money to Colcord and tell him about it , Russ '' .
He started to return it .
To his faint surprise Russ held up his hand .
`` Not me '' , he ruled decidedly .
I've had enough .
It was you that tracked it down anyway , Stevens '' , he pursued strictly .
`` I'll shove along home '' .
`` Whatever you say '' .
Pat swung into the saddle , yet still he delayed , his brows puckered .
`` You owe it to Penny to give her a chance to explain that she was defending you , really '' , he observed mildly .
`` Old Crip wasn't '' , retorted Cobb tartly .
`` He'll know when you tell him .
But I want this to sink in awhile .
Then maybe next time he won't be so quick on the trigger '' .
`` Pat had never pretended to give advice in such affairs .
`` You're the doctor '' , he returned with a smile .
`` But I still think Penny's an awful nice girl , Russ '' --
`` You don't have to tell me '' , flashed Cobb .
Giving the other a dark look , he hauled his bronc around and trotted down off the street .
Pat let him go , following more leisurely .
At the first restaurant he sensibly pulled up to go in for his dinner , and as a consequence did not see Cobb strike the open range at the mouth of the canyon and head straight across the swells for Antler .
The truth was , the puncher was both bewildered and dismayed by his own mixed luck .
`` Penny's always glad to see me over there '' , he mused bleakly .
Yet had he not visited the girl at Saw Buck he would never have been involved in this latest tangle .
Over and above that , however , was his growing suspicion of Chuck Stober's part in recent events .
`` Gyp Carmer couldn't have known about Colcord's money unless he was told -- and who else would have told him '' ? ?
He asked himself .
`` It's the second time War Ax hands made a play for that money .
How much of an accident could that be '' ? ?
Nearing home , he jerked to attention at the distant crack of a gun .
In town no one paid much attention to an occasional shot ; ;
but on the range gunfire had a meaning .
Hauling up , Russ listened carefully .
Two minutes later it came again -- a double explosion , followed by a third , sounding more distant .
As near as Cobb could determine the shots came from the direction of the Antler ranch house .
He tightened up in a twinkling .
So far as he knew , only his father could be there .
What did it mean ? ?
Clapping spurs to the bronc he set off at a sharp canter , with growing alarm .
His first glimpse of the ranch house across the brushy swells told him nothing .
Still a quarter-mile away , the fresh clap of guns only served to increase his speed .
Setting a course straight for the house , he was covering ground fast when an angry bee buzzed past close to his face .
When it was followed by a second , whining even closer , Cobb swerved sharply aside into a depression .
He knew now what he was up against .
Whoever was out there hiding in the brushy cover was besieging the Antler house and , having spotted his approach , was determined to drive him off before he could get into the fight .
Cursing himself for having ridden out the last few days without a rifle in his saddle boot , Russ drew his Colt and examined it briefly .
If he wondered whether the attackers would allow him to pull away unmolested , he had his answer a moment later .
`` Over this way ! !
He ain't gone far '' ! !
A harsh cry floated to him across the brush .
A carbine cracked more loudly , and a slug clipped fragments from the brush off at one side .
The would-be assassin had his position figured pretty close .
Dismounting , Russ looked about hastily .
Toward the west this depression led toward a draw .
Leading his pony , he hurried that way , not remounting till he was well below the level of the surrounding range .
Swinging up then , and bending forward over the horn , he urged his mount down the meandering draw .
He had not covered a hundred yards before a gun crashed from somewhere behind .
He had been sighted , and his attacker pumping shot after shot .
A shot or two went wild before Cobb felt something tug at his foot .
A slug had torn half of his stirrup-guard away .
A second twitched his shirtsleeve , and he felt a brief burn on his upper arm .
Another snarled close overhead .
`` Jumping Jerusalem ! !
Let's get out of here '' ! !
At the first shot Russ had hurled his mount to the left toward the side of the winding draw .
The long minute before he reached effective cover seemed endless .
Sweeping a look around , he saw that he was safe for the moment .
He heard cries from behind him , but he could make out no words .
He dashed madly for the next elbow turn in the draw , and made it .
Recklessly hurling the bronc sidewise into an intersecting draw , he plunged forward with undiminished speed .
Gradually the wash climbed upward , forcing him toward open range .
Yet he must chance it .
He clambered out of the dwindling wash , the loose dirt flying behind him , and flashed a look about .
Early in November the clouds lifted enough to carry out the assigned missions .
And Sweeney Squadron put its first marks on the combat record .
Every plane that could fly was sent into the air .
Cricket took eight ships and went south across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao to Cagayan .
Anything the enemy flew or floated was his target .
Fleischman with eight was to patrol the Leyte Gulf area , with his main task to get any kamikaze before they got to the ships .
Greg himself took two flights , with Todman leading the second , to patrol and look for targets of opportunities around Ormoc on the east coast of Leyte .
Each plane carried two five-hundred pound bombs .
A weapons carrier took Greg , Todman , Belton , Banjo Ferguson , and Walters and the others the two miles from the bivouac area to the strip .
It was a rough long ride through the mud and pot holes .
No one had much to say .
The sky glowered down at them .
There was a feeling that this mission would be canceled like all the others and that this muddy wet dark world of combat would go on forever .
The truck dropped them off at the various revetments spread through the jungle .
Donovan snatched Greg's chute from him with a belligerent motion and almost ran to the plane with it .
His face was dark as the sky above it as he stood on the wing and waited for his pilot .
Greg climbed into the cockpit feeling as if he had never been in one before .
But his hands and those of Donovan moved automatically adjusting and arranging in the check-out procedure .
`` I've got her as neat as I can '' , Donovan said , as he dropped the straps of the Seton harness over Greg's shoulders .
`` But this goddamn climate .
It's for carabao not airplanes '' .
`` We'll make out .
Don't you worry , chief '' , Greg replied , wondering if he himself believed it .
`` Yeah .
See you '' , Donovan said as he jumped off the wing .
The expression was his trade-mark , his open sesame to good luck , and his prayer that pilot and plane would always return .
At the prearranged time , Greg started the engine and taxied out .
From the time the chocks were pulled until the plane was out of sight , he knew Donovan would keep his back to the strip .
He wondered where the superstition had originated that it was bad luck for a crew chief to watch his plane take off on a combat mission .
Yet long before the scheduled time for return , Donovan would be watching for every speck in the sky .
Greg rumbled down the rough metal taxi strip , and one by one the seven members of his flight fell in behind him .
The dark brown bombs hanging under each wing looked large and powerful .
The pilots' heads looked ridiculously small .
The control tower gave him immediate take-off permission , and the clean roar of the engine that took him off the rough strip spoke well of the skill of Donovan .
Greg's mission was the last to leave , and as he circled the ships off Tacloban he saw the clouds were dropping down again .
To the west , the dark green hills of Leyte were lost in the clouds about halfway up their slopes .
Underneath him the sea was a dark and muddied gray .
Water splashed against his windshield as he led the flight in and out of showers .
The metal strip they had taken off from was coal black against the green jungle around it .
He possessed the fighter pilot's horror of bad weather and instrument flying , and he wondered , if the ceiling did drop , whether he and the other flights would be able to find their way back in this unfamiliar territory .
He shivered in the warm cockpit .
The overcast was solid above him .
As far as he could see there was no hole to climb through it .
They would have to go west through the narrow river valley that separated Leyte from Samar and hope that it didn't close in before they returned .
Greg pushed the radio button on his throttle .
`` Todman , let's try to go under this stuff .
Stay in close and we'll go up the valley '' .
`` Roger , Sweeney '' , Todman called back , and pulled his four in and slightly above Greg .
Greg took the formation wide around three A-26 attack bombers that were headed north over the Gulf .
He dropped down to five hundred feet , swinging a little north of the city of Tacloban , and punched into the opening that showed against the mountain .
The valley was only a few hundred yards wide with just about room enough for a properly performed hundred-and-eighty-degree turn .
It was only a fifteen-minute flight , but before it was through Greg felt himself developing a case of claustrophobia .
The ceiling stayed solid above them at about eight hundred feet , and at times the sheer cliffs seemed about to close in .
If the other pilots were worried , they did not show it .
The formation remained perfect .
When the sea was visible ahead of them , the relief was as great as if the sun had come out .
He spread the flight out and led them across a point of land and then down the coast .
Although they drew light ground fire they saw no signs of activity .
Once Todman thought he had spotted a tank and went down to investigate while Greg covered him .
`` Somebody beat us to it '' ! !
Todman said over the radio as he came back up in formation .
Visibility continued to be limited , and Greg was never able to get above a thousand feet .
It was frustrating .
His earphones were constantly full of the sounds of enemy contacts made by other flights .
He thought once that he identified the somewhat hysterical voice of Fleischman claiming a kill .
But Greg's area remained as placid as a Florida dawn .
Finally , as time began to run out , he headed into Ormoc and glide-bombed a group of houses that Intelligence had thought might contain Japanese supplies .
The low clouds made bombing difficult .
There was not enough room to make the usual vertical bomb run .
The accuracy was deplorable .
One of Greg's bombs hung up , and he was miles from the target before he could get rid of it .
Only one of the flight scored a direct hit and the rest blew up jungle .
With their load of bombs gone , the planes moved swiftly and easily .
Greg went up tight against the ceiling and led them back to their pass to home .
Mercifully , it was still open .
Like a man making a deep dive , Greg took full breath and plunged back into the valley .
He was about to make a gas check on his flight when Todman's voice broke in : `` Sweeneys ! !
Three bogies .
Twelve o'clock level '' .
Greg's eyes flicked up from his instrument panel .
He saw them , specks against the gray , but closing fast .
They were headed straight for each other on a collision course .
Friend or enemy ? ?
The same old question .
And only a few seconds to answer it .
`` Zeros '' ! !
Todman said excitedly , and hopefully .
And then he thought Todman might be right .
His mind flicked through the mental pictures he had from the hours of Aircraft Identification .
He narrowed the shape down to two : either a Zero or a U. S. Navy type aircraft .
If it were the enemy , tactically his position was correct .
Japanese aircraft were strong on maneuverability , American on speed and firepower .
His present maximum altitude , up against the overcast , gave him the opportunity to exploit his advantages .
But it also made him conspicuous to the enemy , if it was the enemy , and he hadn't been spotted already .
But the closing aircraft showed no sign of deviating from their original course .
In seconds , Greg made his decision .
He pushed the radio button .
`` Sweeney Blue , hit the deck .
Lots of throttle .
Todman , you take the one on the left .
I'll take the middle .
Belton , the one on the right .
If they're Japs .
Let's make sure first '' .
Greg had the stick forward and the throttle up before he heard the two `` Rogers '' .
The planes , light with most of the gas burned out , responded beautifully .
Greg's airspeed indicator was over 350 when he leveled off just above the trees .
The opposing aircraft continued to come on .
They appeared to be the enemy .
Greg wished the Air Corps had continued to camouflage planes .
There was , of course , no way for the other planes to get by them .
It was a box .
But they could turn and escape to the east .
Greg pushed the radio button again .
`` Todman , drop your second element back .
If any of us miss , they can pick up the pieces .
Now let's make sure they're Japs '' .
Even as he said it , Greg knew they had found the enemy .
The shapes were unmistakable and the Rising Suns were showing up , slightly brighter pinpoints in the gray gloom .
Greg slapped his hand across the switches that turned on the guns and gun camera and gun sight .
The circle with the dot in the center showed up yellow on the reflector glass in front of him .
His hands shook .
`` Arm your guns , Sweeneys '' .
`` They're Japs .
They're Japs '' , came a high-pitched voice .
`` Greg to Sweeney Blue .
One pass only .
No turns .
You'll bust your ass in this canyon .
That's an order '' .
He moved the flights over against one wall .
It gave them all a chance to make a high-speed climbing turn attack and a break-away that would not take them into the overcast or force a tight-turn recovery .
If the turn was too tight , a barrel roll would bring them out .
A hell of an altitude for a barrel roll , but it could be done .
Greg slammed his throttle to the fire wall and rammed up the RPM , and the engine responded as if it had been waiting .
The clearly identifiable enemy continued on as if no one else were around .
`` They haven't seen us '' , Greg yelled to himself over the engine noise .
`` They haven't seen us '' .
He hit the radio button .
`` Now , Sweeneys , now .
Let's take 'em home '' .
He hauled back on the stick and felt his cheeks sag .
Out of the corner of his eye , he watched his wingman move out a bit and shoot up with him .
Perfect , he thought .
With the rapid rate of closure , the approach from below , the side , and ahead , there would be only a moment when damage could be done .
Just like shooting at a duck while performing a half-gainer from a diving board .
He tightened his turn .
His nose up .
It was going to be dangerous .
Eight aircraft in this small box .
Please , dear God , make my pilots good , he prayed .
He took a lead on the enemy , using a distance of five of the radii in his circular sight and then added another .
The enemy did not veer .
It did not seem possible that they hadn't been spotted .
Blind fools .
Now ! !
Greg's fingers closed on the stick trigger .
The plane rumbled and slowed .
Six red lines etched their way into the gray and vanished .
As if drawn by a wire the enemy flew into them .
Greg tightened his turn until the plane shuddered .
Luck was with him .
His burst held for a second on the engine section of the plane .
The Jap's propeller flew off in pieces .
A large piece of engine cowling vanished .
It was all Greg had time to see .
His maneuvering for the shot had placed him near the overcast , almost inverted and heading up into the clouds .
His speed was dropping rapidly .
If he spun out now , he would join his opponent on the ground .
Wingman , stay clear , he prayed .
He pushed stick and rudder and entered the overcast on his back .
He fought the panic of vertigo .
He had no idea which was up and which was down .
He held the controls where they had been .
Sweat popped out over him and he felt the slick between his palm and the stick grip .
His air speed dropped until he thought he would spin out .
Over the rattling of fenders , humming of tires and chattering of gears there was a charming melody of whispers and tiny giggles .
Cool air moving slowly through the open or smashed-out side windows hinted of blooming roadside vegetation , and occasionally a faint fragrance of perfume swirled from the back seat .
`` Moriarty '' , my driver suddenly exclaimed with something so definite , so final in his tone I once more repeated the absurdity , mustering all my latent powers of hypocrisy to sound convinced .
We were coming to an intersection , turning right , chuffing to a stop .
Forced to realize that this was the end of a very short line I scanned a road marker and discovered what the end of a slightly longer line would be for the old Mexican : Moriarty , New Mexico .
`` Gracias .
Adios '' , I said , exhausting my Spanish vocabulary on my host and exchanging one of a scarcely-tapped store of smiles with my host's daughters .
I waved with discretion and moderation to the vague golden faces fading through rising dust and the distortions of the back window glass .
Then I saw the father's head slightly turn ; ;
gauche rainbow shapes replaced the poignant ovals of gold .
Autos whizzed past .
White-shirted and conservatively-cravated drivers stared conspicuously toward the eastern horizon and past my supplicating and accusing gaze .
Suddenly a treble auto horn tootley-toot-tootled , and , thumbing hopefully , I saw emergent in windshield flash : red lips , streaming silk of blonde hair and -- ah , trembling confusion of hope , apprehension , despair -- the leering face of old Herry .
`` Mor-ee-air-teeeee '' , he shrieked , his white teeth grossly counterpointing those of the glittering blonde .
Over the rapidly-diminishing outline of a jump seat piled high with luggage Herry's black brushcut was just discernible , near , or enviably near that spot where -- hidden -- more delicately-textured , most beautifully tinted hair must still be streaming back in cool , oh cool wind sweetly perfumed with sagebrush and yucca flowers and engine fumes .
Damn his luck .
I would have foregone my romantic chances rather than leave a friend sweltering and dusty and -- Well , at least I wouldn't have shouted back a taunt .
Still nursing anger I listlessly thumbed a car that was slowly approaching , its pre-war chrome nearly blinding me .
It was stopping .
Just as I straightened up with my duffel bag , I heard : `` Sahjunt Yoorick , meet Mrs. Major J. A. Roebuck '' .
The voice was that of Johnson , tail gunner off another crew .
Squeezing a look between Johnson's fat jowls and the car frame a handsome and still darkhaired lady inquired `` Y'all drahve '' ? ?
I nodded .
`` Onleh one thiihng '' , Mrs. Roebuck continued .
`` Ahm goin nawth t'jawn mah husbun in Sante Fe , an y'all maht prefuh the suhthuhn rewt .
But Corporal Johnson has alreadeh said it didn make no diffrunce t'hi-im '' .
I said that it didn't make any difference to me either , as far as I knew .
How far I knew will shortly become apparent .
Let me pass over the trip to Sante Fe with something of the same speed which made Mrs. Roebuck `` wonduh if the wahtahm speed limit '' ( 35 m.p.h. ) `` is still in ee-faket '' .
I let up on the accelerator , only to gradually reach again the 60 m.p.h. which would , I hoped , overhaul Herry and the blonde , and as there were cars whose drivers apparently had something more important to catch than had I , Mrs. Major Roebuck settled down to practicing on Corporal Johnson the kittenish wiles she would need when making her duty call on Colonel and Mrs. Somebody in Sante Fe .
When Johnson ejaculated `` Howsabout my buying us all a nice cold Co-cola , Ma'am '' ? ?
Mrs. Roebuck smilingly declined and began suddenly to go on about her son , who was `` onleh a little younguh than you bawhs '' .
Johnson never would have believed she had a son that age .
Mrs. Roebuck thought Johnson was a `` sweet bawh t'lah lahk thet '' , but her Herman was getting to be a man , there was no getting around it .
`` Just befoh he left foh his academeh we wuh hevin dack-rihs on the vuhranduh , Major Roebuck an Ah , an Huhmun says ' May Ah hev one too ' ? ?
Just as p'lite an -- an cohnfidunt , an Ah says ' Uh coahse you cain't ' , but he says ' Whah nawt , you ah hevin one ' ? ?
An Ah coudn ansuh him an so Ah said ' Aw right , Ah gay-ess , an his fathuh didn uttuh one wohd an aftuh Huhmun was gone , the majuh laughed an tole me thet he an the bawh had been hevin an occasional drink t'gethuh f'ovuh a yeah , onleh an occasional one , but just the same it was behahn mah back , an Ah doan think thet's nahce at all , d'you '' ? ?
`` No , I don't '' , Johnson said .
`` I'm a good Baptist , and drinking ''
Mrs. Roebuck very kindly let me drive through Sante Fe to a road which would , she said , lead us to Taos and then Raton and `` eventshahleh '' out of New Mexico .
How lightly her `` eventshah-leh '' passed into the crannies where I was storing dialect material for some vaguely dreamed opus , and how the word would echo .
And re-echo .
Hardly had Mrs. Roebuck driven off when a rusty pick-up truck , father or grandfather of Senor `` Moriarty's '' Ford sedan , came screeching to a dust-swirling stop , and a brown face appeared , its nose threatened by shards of what had once been the side window .
`` Get in , buddies .
Get in '' .
The straight , black hair flopped in a vigorous nod , the slender nose plunged toward glass teeth and drew safely back .
Johnson unwired the right hand door , whose window was , like the left one , merely loosely-taped fragments of glass , and Johnson wadded himself into a narrow seat made still more narrow by three cases of beer .
`` In back , buddy '' , the driver said to me .
Quickly but carefully lowering my duffel bag over the low side-rack , I stepped on the running board ; ;
it flopped down , sprang back up and gouged my shin .
The truck was hurtling forward .
I seized the rack and made a western-style flying-mount just in time , one of my knees mercifully landing on my duffel bag -- and merely wrecking my camera , I was to discover later -- my other knee landing on the slivery truck floor boards and -- but this is no medical report .
I was again in motion and at a speed which belied the truck's similarity to Senor X's Ford turtle .
Maybe I would beat old Herry to Siberia after all .
Whatever satisfaction that might offer .
Something pulled my leg .
I drew back , drawing back my foot for a kick .
But it was only Johnson reaching around the wire chicken fencing , which half covered the truck cab's glassless rear window .
The way his red rubber lips were stretched across his pearly little teeth I thought he was only having a little joke , but , no , he wanted me to bend down from the roar of wind so he could roar something into my ear .
`` Wanna beer '' ? ?
`` Hell , yes '' , I roared back between dusty lips .
Did I want a beer ? ?
Did an anteater want ants ? ?
`` Bueno , amigo .
Gracias '' , I hollered , my first long swallow filling me with confidence and immediately doubling the size of my Spanish vocabulary .
At once my ears were drowned by a flow of what I took to be Spanish , but -- the driver's white teeth flashing at me , the road wildly veering beyond his glistening hair , beyond his gesticulating bottle -- it could have been the purest Oxford English I was half hearing ; ;
I wouldn't have known the difference .
Johnson was trying to grab the wheel , though the swerve of the truck was throwing him away from it .
White teeth suddenly vanishing , the driver slammed the side of his bottle against Johnson's ear .
We were off the road , gleaming barbed wire pulling taut .
I ducked just as the first strand broke somewhere down the line and came whipping over the sideboards .
We were in a field , in a tight , screeching turn .
Prairie dogs were popping up and popping down .
When I fell on my back , I saw a vulture hovering .
Just as I got to my knees , there was again the sound of the fence stretching , and I had time only to start taking my kneeling posture seriously .
This time no wire came whipping into the truck .
We were back on the road .
I regained my squatting position behind the truck cab's rear window .
Johnson's left hand was pressed against the side of his head , red cheeks whitening beneath his fingers .
`` Tee-wah '' , the driver cackled , his black eyes glittering behind dull silver chicken fencing .
`` That was Tee-wah I was talking .
You thought I was a Mexican , didn't you , buddy '' ? ?
I nodded .
`` Hell , that's all right , buddy '' , the Indian ( I now guessed ) said .
`` Drink your beer '' .
Miraculously , the bottle was still in my hand , foam still geysering over my ( luckily ) waterproof watch .
No sooner had I started drinking than the driver started zigzagging the truck .
The beer foamed furiously .
I drank furiously .
A long time .
Emptied the bottle .
Teeth again flashing back at me , the driver released a deluge of Spanish in which `` amigo '' appeared every so often like an island in the stormy waves of surrounding sound .
I bobbed my head each time it appeared .
Suddenly the Spanish became an English in which only one word emerged with clarity and precision , `` son of a bitch '' , sometimes hyphenated by vicious jabs of a beer bottle into Johnson's quivering ribs .
A big car was approaching , its chrome teeth grinning .
Beyond it the gray road stretched a long , long way .
The car was just about to us , its driver's fat , solemn face intent on the road ahead , on business , on a family in Sante Fe -- on anything but an old pick-up truck in which two human beings desperately needed rescue .
I tossed the bottle .
High , so it would only bounce harmlessly but loudly off the car's steel roof .
Too high .
On unoccupied roadway the bottle shattered into a small amber flash .
`` Aye-yah-ah-ah '' ! !
The Indian was again raising his bottle , but to my astonished relief -- probably only a fraction of Johnson's -- the bottle this time went to the Indian's lips .
Another car was coming , a tiny , dark shape on a far hill .
I started looking on the splintery truck bed for a piece of board , a dirt clod -- anything I could throw and with better aim than I had thrown the beer bottle .
We were slowing .
In the ditch sand was white and soft-looking , only an occasional pebble discernible , faintly gleaming .
But Johnson couldn't quickly unwire the truck door , and if I escaped , he might suffer .
The car was approaching fast .
On the truck bed there was nothing smaller than a piece of rusty machinery ; ;
with more time I could have loosened a small burr or cotter pin --
Suddenly and not a second too soon I thought of the coins in my pocket .
There was no time to pick out a penny ; ;
I got a coin between my thumb and forefinger , leaned my elbows in a very natural and casual manner on top of the truck cab and flipped my little missile .
There was a blur just under my focus of vision , a crash ; ;
the car's far windshield panel turned into a silver web with a dark hole in the center .
I heard the screech of brakes behind me , an insane burst of laughter beneath me .
Looking back I saw a gray-haired man getting out of his halted car and trying to read our license number .
`` S-s-sahjunt '' .
Johnson's fat hand , another bottle were protruding from the truck cab , and that self-proclaimed Baptist teetotaler , had a bottle at his own lips .
Two cars came over a crest , their chrome and glass flashing .
The Indian's arm whipped sidewise -- there was a flash of amber and froth , the crash of the bottle shattering against the side of the first car .
Brakes shrieked behind us .
I saw Johnson's bottle snatched from his hand , saw it go in a swirl of foam just behind the second car .
This time there was no sound of brakes but the shrieking of women .
I looked back at pale ovals framed in the elongated oval of the car's rear window .
`` Drink , you son of a bitch '' ! !
I quickly turned around and began to drink .
But the Indian was jabbing another bottle toward Johnson .
I guided her to the divan , turned off the TV , faced her .
She sat quietly , staring at me from the wide eyes .
And what eyes they were .
Big and dark , a melting , golden brown .
Eyes like hot honey , eyes that sizzled .
Plus flawless skin , smooth brow and cheeks , lips that looked as if you could get a shock from them .
It was a disturbingly familiar face , too , but I couldn't remember where we had met .
I said , `` Do we know each other , Miss '' ? ?
`` No , I remembered reading about you in the papers and that you lived here , and when it happened all I could think of was '' -- This time she stopped the rush of words herself .
`` I'm sorry .
Shall I go on '' ? ?
She smiled .
It was her first smile .
But worth waiting for .
`` Sure '' .
I said .
`` But one word at a time , O.K. '' ? ?
She was still hugging the stained coat around her , so I said , `` Relax , let me take your things .
Would you like a drink , or coffee '' ? ?
`` No , thanks '' .
She stood up , pulled the coat from her shoulders and started to slide it off , then let out a high-pitched scream and I let out a low-pitched , wobbling sound like a muffler blowing out .
She was wearing nothing beneath the coat .
She jerked the coat back on and squeezed it around her again , but not soon enough .
There had been a good second or two during which my muffler had been blowing out , and now I was certain I'd seen her somewhere before .
`` I forgot '' ! !
She yelped .
`` Oh , do forgive me .
I'm sorry '' ! !
`` I forgive '' --
`` That's what started all the trouble in the first place .
Oh , dear , I'm all unstrung '' .
`` You and me both , dear .
Haven't we haven't I seen you .
I mean , surely we've '' --
`` You may have seen me on TV '' , she said .
`` I've done several filmed commercials for '' --
Then it hit me .
`` Zing '' ! !
I cried .
`` Why , yes .
And you recognized me '' ? ?
`` Yes , indeed .
In fact , I was watching you on that little seventeen-inch screen when you rang my bell .
Man , you rang -- it was in color , too , Miss , and Miss ? ?
What's your name , anyway ? ?
Ah , you were splendid '' .
I sat by her on the divan .
`` Splendid .
In a waterfall and all that '' .
`` That's the last one we did .
That was a fun one '' .
`` I'll bet .
It was fun for me , all right .
I don't mean to pry , but do they hide the swimsuit with the bubbles ? ?
I mean : Is advertising honest ? ?
`` It depends on who does it .
I never wear anything at all .
It wouldn't -- wouldn't seem fair , somehow '' .
`` I couldn't agree with you more '' .
`` I really do have something important to tell you , Mr. Scott .
About the murder '' .
`` Murder ? ?
Oh , yeah '' , I said .
`` Tell me about the murder '' .
She told me .
Zing was the creation of two men , Louis Thor and Bill Blake , partners in zing ! !
, Inc. .
They'd peddled the soap virtually alone , and without much success , until about a year ago , when -- with the addition of `` SX-21 '' to their secret formula and the inauguration of a high-powered advertising campaign -- sales had soared practically into orbit .
Their product had been endorsed by Good Housekeeping , the A.M.A. , and the Veterinary Journal , among other repositories of higher wisdom , and before much longer if you didn't have a cake of their soap in the john , even your best friends would think you didn't bathe .
My lovely caller -- Joyce Holland was her name -- had previously done three filmed commercials for zing , and this evening , the fourth , a super production , had been filmed at the home of Louis Thor .
The water in Thor's big swimming pool had been covered with a blanket of thick , foamy soapsuds -- fashioned , of course , from zing -- Joyce had dived from the board into the pool , then swirled and cavorted in her luxurious `` bath '' while cameras rolled .
The finished -- and drastically cut -- product would begin with a hazy longshot of Joyce entering the suds , then bursting above the pool's surface clad in layers of lavender lather , and I had a hunch this item was going to sell tons and tons of soap ; ;
even to clean men and boys .
Joyce went on , `` When we'd finished , Lou -- Mr. Thor -- asked me to stay a little longer .
He wanted a few stills for magazine ads , he said .
Everybody left and I stayed in the pool , then Lou came back alone and leaped into the pool too .
And he didn't have any clothes on '' .
`` He didn't '' ! !
`` Yes , he didn't .
Did , I mean '' .
She paused .
`` Did leap into the pool , and didn't have anything on .
Anyway , it was evident what he had in mind '' .
`` You got away , didn't you '' ? ?
`` Yes .
He caught up with me once and grabbed me , but I was all covered with zing -- it's very slippery , you know '' .
`` I didn't know .
I wouldn't have the stuff in the house .
But I'm pleased to hear '' --
`` So I just scooted out of his clutches .
I swam like mad , got out of the pool , grabbed my robe , and ran to the car .
The keys were still in it , and I was miles away before I remembered that my clothes and purse and everything were still in the little cabana where I'd changed '' .
She'd driven around for a while , Joyce said , then , thinking Louis Thor would have calmed down by that time , she'd gone back to his home on Bryn Mawr Drive , parked in front , and walked toward the pool .
While several yards from it , still concealed by the shrubbery , she'd seen two men on her left at the pool's edge .
She went on :
`` A man was holding onto Lou , holding him up .
Maybe Lou was only unconscious , but right then I thought he must be dead .
The man shoved him into the water , then ran past the cabana .
There's a walk there that goes out to Quebec Drive .
I was so scared well , I just ran to my car and came here '' .
`` You know who the other man was '' ? ?
`` No , I never did see his face .
I didn't get a good look at him at all , his back was to me , and I was so scared It was just somebody in a man's suit .
But I'm sure the other one was Lou '' .
What Joyce wanted me to do was go to Thor's house and `` do whatever detectives do '' , and get her clothes -- and handbag containing her identification .
She realized I'd have to notify the police , but fervently hoped I could avoid mentioning her name .
Her impact in the zing commercials had led to her being considered for an excellent part in an upcoming TV series , Underwater Western Eye , a documentary-type show to be sponsored by Oatnut Grits .
But if Joyce got involved in murder or salacious scandal , the role would probably go to the sponsor's wife , Mrs. Oatnut Grits .
Or at least not to Joyce .
`` And I so want the part '' , she said .
`` The commercials have just been for money , there hasn't been any real incentive for me to do them , but in Underwater Western Eye I'd have a chance to act .
I could show what I can do '' .
As far as I was concerned , she had already and had dandily shown what she could do .
But I promised Joyce I would mention her name , if at all , only as a last resort .
Seeming much relieved , she smiled one of those worth-waiting-for smiles , and I smiled all the way into the bedroom .
There I got my Colt Special and shoulder harness , slipped my coat on , and went back into the front room .
Joyce squirmed a little on the divan .
`` I'm starting to itch '' , she said .
`` Itch '' ? ?
`` Yes , I'm still all covered with that soap .
