He appeared in the hopples about November 14 , was treated for worms on the 18th , the latter date being the first time he struck a real pace .
On December 5 he paced a mile in 55 on the twice-around , out in third position all the way .
This colt has done everything asked of him , and done it with ease .
His best mile to date is 2:32.2 .
Gamecock ( Tar Heel-Terka Hanover ) is another promising colt , and his best time is 2:32.2 .
This is one of the best-tempered Tar Heels ever at the center .
The first time he was harnessed he stood like a gentle old mare ; ;
the crupper under his tail seemed to be old stuff .
The fourth time in harness he walked off like a gentleman .
Being blistered for curbs has delayed his work somewhat .
But up to date he has shown as much as any in the big Simpson stable .
Hustler ( Knight Dream-Torkin ) is a playful bay rascal of a colt , not the best gaited , but he surely can pace and is right there with them , and sometimes leading them , in the best miles .
Torrid Freight ( Torrid-Breeze On Hal ) is a very rugged , strong-made colt with a wonderful stride who has done with ease everything asked of him .
His best time is around 2:33 .
Strongheart ( Adios-Direct Gal ) , a fair-looking sorrel colt , knows nothing but pace and has been right there in the best miles .
Torrid Adios ( Torrid-Adios Molly ) is not so masculine as most of the colts , but I like his type and he certainly is one of the best-gaited pacers on the grounds .
Blistered for curbs and laid off three weeks , he is coming along fine and looks like a pacer to me .
First Flyer ( Frisco Flyer-Castle Light ) looks like a splendid candidate for the Illinois Stakes .
His best time is 2:33.2 .
The colts in Simpson's stable have little if anything on the fillies , especially the pacers .
Justine Hanover ( Sampson Hanover-Justitia Hanover ) is improving with each work-out and paced 2:32.4 weeks ago .
Mrs. Freight ( Knight Dream-Miss Reed ) shows promise and does it in good form , and her best time is about 2:35 .
Hoopla ( Tar Heel-Holiday Hanover ) , a filly that wanted to trot , knocked herself October 31 and November 1 fighting the hopples .
She was then trained on the trot until December 29 , hitched to a breaking cart once around the half-mile track and hoppled again .
This time she submitted and in a few days was going good .
On January 11 she paced a mile in 2:43.1--:38 ; ;
on Jan. 18 2:37.3--:36.1 ; ;
on Jan. 21 , , 2:36 .
This filly is a much better individual than either of her full-sisters , Valentine Day and Cerise -- more scale and much better underpinning .
She is more like her full brother , Taraday Hanover , but larger .
Up to date she is a grand-looking filly .
Pete Dailey has four promising 2-year-old pacers .
Marquis Pick ( Gene Abbe-Direct Grattan ) seems to be the pick of the stable at the present time .
He is a fine-looking colt with a good body , good set of legs and nice way of going .
His best mile to date is 2:28-:33 .
Majestic Pick comes next , with a mile in 2:30-:33.2 .
This colt is another fine-looking equine .
Staley Hanover ( Knight Dream-Sweetmite Hanover ) is a little on the small side but a very compact colt and looks like one to stand training and many future battles with colts in his class .
Best time to date is 2:34-:34 .
Step Aside ( Direct Rhythm-Wily Widow ) has worked in 2:32 on the half-mile track and shows promise .
Most of Billy Haughton's 2-year-olds have worked from 2:40 to 2:35 .
Bonnie Wick ( Gene Abbe-Scotch Mary ) has gone in 2:36 ; ;
Hickory Ash ( Titan Hanover-Misty Hanover ) in 2:35 .
The first time I saw the latter filly she trotted by me and I noticed such a family resemblance that I said to myself , `` that must be Hickory Ash '' .
She is a beautiful filly and likes to trot .
Hickory Hill ( Star's Pride-Venus Hanover ) has gone in 2:33 ; ;
Hickory Spark ( Harlan-Hickory Tiny ) 2:37 ; ;
Buxton Hanover ( Tar Heel-Beryl Hanover ) 2:35 ; ;
Faber's Kathy ( Faber Hanover-Ceyway ) 2:37 ; ;
Honor Rodney ( Rodney-Honor Bright ) around 2:40 .
The last-named is a fine-looking , large colt , who has been unfortunate to be laid off for some time due to injuries .
He is going sound again now , and looks good .
Brief Candle ( Harlan-Marcia ) has gone in 2:37 ; ;
Lena Faber ( Faber Hanover-Chalidale Lena ) 2:33 ; ;
Martha Rodney ( Rodney-Miss Martha D. ) 2:35 ; ;
Checkit ( Faber Hanover-Supermarket ) 2:35 ; ;
Charm Rodney ( Rodney-The Charmer ) 2:37 ; ;
Fair Sail ( Farvel-Topsy Herring ) 2:36 ; ;
Custom Maid ( Knight Dream-Way Dream ) 2:34.2 ; ;
Jacky Dares ( ( Meadow Gene-Princess Lorraine ) 2:36 ; ;
Good Flying ( Good Time-Olivette Hanover ) 2:36 ; ;
Bordner Hanover ( Tar Heel-Betty Mahone ) 2:34 ; ;
Faber's Choice ( Faber Hanover-Sally Joe Whippet ) 2:36 ; ;
Invercalt ( Florican-Inverness ) 2:35 ; ;
Duffy Dares ( Meadow Gene-Princess Mite ) 2:36 ; ;
Harold J. ( Worthy Boy-Lady Scotland ) 2:36 ; ;
Knightfall ( Knight Dream-Miss Worthy Grapes ) 2:36 ; ;
Next Knight ( Knight Dream-Next Time ) 2:36 ; ;
Trader Jet ( Florican-My Precious ) 2:37 ; ;
Trader Rich ( Worthy Boy-Marquita Hanover ) 2:37 ; ;
Good Little Girl ( Good Time-Mynah Hanover ) 2:36 ; ;
Iosola Hanover ( Kimberly Kid-Isoletta Hanover ) 2:36 .
The last-named is one of the favorites in the stable , and the boys like her very much .
I will be able to tell you more about this string of equines in the near future .
I have just seen Debonnie and Prompt Time work a mile in 2:34 , last quarter in :35.3 .
In going away Debonnie got behind several lengths , stalling at the start -- she is a little fussy .
They left the three-quarters together and finished almost together .
Prompt Time shows class .
This filly is another Adios that wants to trot , and trot she did until forced to do otherwise .
After well broken and equipped with 12-oz. shoes on behind , bare-footed in front , she would trot a real storm with the master , Delvin , driving .
Being placed in the hopples she was completely baffled .
She hesitated , she hopped , she rolled and rocked , skipped and jumped , but in some two weeks she started to pace , From that time to this she has shown steady improvement and now looks like one of the classiest things on the grounds .
Rain on Friday prevented many workouts , but there were a few miles of note on Thursday .
Those responsible included Stardel Hanover ( Star's Pride-Starlette Hanover ) , 2:30-:34.3 ; ;
Lorena Gallon ( Bill Gallon-Loren Hanover ) , 2:30-:34.3 ; ;
Prudent Hanover ( Dean Hanover-Precious Hanover ) , 2:30.3-:35.3 ; ;
Premium Freight ( Titan Hanover-Pebble Hanover ) , 2:30.3-35.3 ; ;
Laguerre Hanover ( ( Tar Heel-Lotus Hanover ) , 2:30.3-:36.1 ; ;
Monel ( Tar Heel-Miracle Byrd ) , 2:30.3-:36.1 ; ;
Fury Hanover ( Hoot Mon-Fay ) , 2:30.3-:36 ; ;
Isaac ( Hoot Mon-Goddess Hanover ) , 2:30.3-:36 ; ;
Caper ( Hoot Mon-Columbia Hanover ) , 2:30.3-:36 ; ;
Lucky Freight ( Knight Dream-Lusty Helen ) , 2:31.3-:35.3 .
Sam Caton's Butterwyn ( Scotch Victor-Butler Wyn ) , a light bay filly , knows nothing but trot and has worked on the half-mile in 2:30-:36 .
Riverboat ( Dalzell-Cousin Rachel ) has gone in 2:38 .
Sam is having his troubles with Layton Hanover ( Dean Hanover-Lucy Hanover ) , but hopes to have him straightened out and going before long .
Jimmy Jordon is high on Adios Scarlet ( Adios-Rena Grattan ) and she sure looks good as she goes by .
Her best time to date is about 2:30 .
He also likes Hampton Hanover ( Titan Hanover-Bertie Hanover ) 2:37 .
Cathy J. Hanover ( Tar Heel-Kaola Hanover ) , formerly called Karet Hanover , has been rather a problem child , but is getting better all the while and can pace a twice around in about 2:31 .
Armbro Comet ( Nibble Hanover-Mauri Hanover ) has been in 2:38 .
Flick Nipe's and Neil Engle's Miss Phone ( Galophone-Prissy Miss ) is a fine-looking filly with good disposition and good gait , and she has worked up to date in 2:46 .
Del Mar , Calif. , Feb. 3
-- After 52 rainless days , moisture finally came to Del Mar , resulting in but one workout during the week for most of the horses , and leaving us with less than half our total average rainfall during the season .
While 2-year-olds are still gaining most of the attention at the track , green horses are starting to go a bit , and Jimmy Cruise has several that can really make it .
Work-outs for the week are as follows : Plain Scotch , 3 ( by Scotch Victor ) , Demon Law , 3 ( by Demon Hanover ) , Coffee Royal , p ( by Royal Blackstone ) and Beauty Way , p , 3 ( by Demon Hanover ) in 25 ; ;
Eddie Duke , p , 3 ( by Duke Of Lullwater ) , Marilyn C. , p ( by Sampson Hanover ) and Chalidale Barry , 5 ( by King's Ransom ) in 2:20 ; ;
Tiger Hanover , p , 3 ( by Adios ) in 2:26 ; ;
Sherwood Lass , 4 ( by Victory Song ) in 2:22 ; ;
and Dauntless , 3 ( by Greentree Adios ) in 2:32 .
For the aged horses : Mr. Budlong , p , 2:00.2 , Lottie Thomas , p , 2:04.2 , Mighty Signal 2:03 , Clever Braden , p , 2:01.1 , and Glow Star , p , 2:02.3 have been in 2:35 ; ;
Miss Demon Abbe , p , 1:59.3 has trotted in 2:26 , and is expected to race at this gait ; ;
Carter Creed , p , 3 , 2:01.1 , Great Lullwater 2:00.3 , and Hi Jay , p , 2:05.1 have been in 2:30 ; ;
Tanker T. , 3 , 2:05.3 is now wearing hopples and has trained in 2:19 ; ;
Stormy Dream , p , 2:01.3 , Demon Abbe , p , 2:02 , Dundeen B. , 4 , 2:04.2 , Claudia's Song , 3 , 2:06.3 , and ( Jet Fire , 4 , 2:02.2 have been in 2:25 ; ;
Maria Key , 2 , 2:06 looked great in 2:22 ; ;
Mocking Byrd , p , 2:01.1 has been in 2:12 , with a racing date approaching at Bay Meadows .
Dewey Urban has a clever green trotter in Dr. Orin I. , 3 ( by Yankee Hanover ) , his latest mile in 2:20 ; ;
Victory Sun , p , 2:04 has trained in 2:24 ; ;
Early Sun , p , 2:02.3 , Chester Maid 2:05 , Dark Sun , p , 2:06.1 , and Sun Tan Maid 2:05.2 have been in 2:21 .
The average reader of this magazine owns more than one gun ( we ran a survey to find out ) but he's always on the lookout for new and better arms .
He's more than a reader of outdoor articles ; ;
he's a real hunter and shooter , eager to improve his sport .
Well , if you're that kind of sportsman we're here to help you .
You've probably given a lot of Christmas-season thought to the guns in your rack , but it's not easy to decide on a new one .
You still have time to drop a few hints about the gifts you'd appreciate most ; ;
the time to decide on them is now .
As a Christmas service , I've taken a close look at this year's crop of new models .
Here they are , with my comments and judgments .
Read on , take your pick -- and start dropping those hints .
First on my own list would be two arms -- a rifle and a handgun -- that qualify as new in the strictest sense .
For me , a changed barrel length or an improved stock doesn't constitute a truly new design .
Such modifications are all for the best but it takes something as different as a Deerstalker or a Jet to change arms-making concepts .
Bill Ruger's long-awaited Deerstalker ( under $110 ) is a new rifle action in a caliber that upsets all the modern theory of high-velocity fans ; ;
it's a short , light , quick-handling , fast-firing little timber gun designed to push a heavy slug at modest velocity but with lots of killing power and ample range for our most popular big game -- whitetail .
Ruger reports that on his recent African safari the little Magnum cartridge was a real work horse .
Small antelope were generally grassed with one shot , and the Magnum carbine also bagged reedbuck , kob and wart hog with deadly efficiency ; ;
these are fairly large , tough animals .
The deadliness of the Magnum in a rifle comes as no surprise to me .
At least five years ago , Tom Robinson of Marlin made up an over/under double rifle for me in this caliber , using the now defunct Model 90 action in 20-gauge size .
After figuring out how to regulate the barrels so that they shot to the same point of impact , we fired this little 20-inch-barrel job on my home range and in Marlin's underground test gallery .
We quickly ran into the same trouble that plagued Bill Ruger in his first experiments : Three or four bullets would be placed well in a six-inch bull at 100 yards and then , unaccountably , one could stray far out of the group .
Ruger learned that this was because the higher velocity achieved in a long barrel was upsetting the shape of the unjacketed revolver bullet .
The new , jacketed slug in Magnum corrected this .
But even without jacketed bullets , I had enough faith in my double to take it on an opening-day deer hunt that first year .
Within half an hour I jumped a six-point buck that hop-skipped through a rhododendron thicket , and I caught him just behind the left foreleg at 60 yards .
He moved only about 30 feet after the 240-grain slug hit him -- and this was after the bullet had passed through a sapling .
Three more deer have fallen to this same gun , and all were one-shot kills .
My double was made with standard-weight revolver barrels ( before cutting to revolver length ) , and although it compares well in other respects , it's considerably heavier than the Deerstalker , which only scales about 6-1/2 pounds .
If ever a rifle met the needs of the whitetail hunter , this is it .
The Deerstalker points with the ease , speed and precision of a fine imported double shotgun , and its trigger pull is light and sharp .
The 240-grain bullet leaves the muzzle at 1,850 fps , which gives it all the smash needed at woods ranges .
With five shots at the immediate command of the hunter's trigger finger , the gun and load are a deadly combination .
The second really new development this year was a revolver handling a different sort of varmint load -- the
Remington Jet Magnum Center Fire .
At present it's available in one model , the fine and familiar Smith & Wesson Magnum revolver ( about $110 ) , long a top-quality handgun among target arms .
The velocity of this
, 40-grain bullet is rated at a very hot 2,460 fps , and it's the flattest shooting of any revolver cartridge , with a mid-range rise of about an inch over a 100-yard range .
This is a varmint load , pure and simple ; ;
it's much too explosive for small edible game .
It can cut a red squirrel neatly in two or burst a crow into a flurry of feathers .
The most intriguing aspect of the S & W Magnum chambered for the new Jet is that it can also fire standard
rim-fires by means of adapter sleeves in the chambers .
You may therefore convert the gun into a small-game and plinking arm , although the difference in the point of impact ( Jet vs. rim-fire ) can be somewhat disconcerting .
The accuracy of the Jet cartridge is fine ; ;
I tested it in my scoped S & W and it was good enough to allow me to hit a chuck with every shot at 100 yards if I did my part by holding the handgun steadily .
Hunting rifles , '61
The fact that the Deerstalker and the Jet were the only completely new designs this year doesn't mean that 1961 didn't see changes in models , actions and calibers .
Aside from the Ruger carbine , a number of hunting rifles have been introduced for the first time .
Here are the brands ( in alphabetical order ) and the new models .
Newcomers to the American hunter are the Browning group of bolt-action , high-power rifles .
They have fine FN actions and a better-than-average finish on both the metal and the stock wood .
Barrel weights vary sensibly with the various calibers available , and these include the standard bores ( about $165 ) plus the Magnums ( around $170 ) ; ;
the latter include the
, S & H , , and .
Shotgun-type rubber recoil pads are standard on all of the Magnums except the
.
Stock designs are excellent for use with scopes .
Colt's center-fire 1961 rifles are all made with Sako actions , regardless of caliber .
The
have the short action ; ;
the
and , the medium action , and the
, Af and the Magnums , the long action ( about $135 for the Standard Coltsman and $200 for the Custom version ) .
Previously , FN actions were used for the larger cartridges .
High Standard has introduced a
auto , the Sport-King , in two grades -- field and special ( less than $45 and just over $45 , respectively ) .
It's a streamlined rifle , fast and well-made .
Among
Magnum Rim-Fire rifles , 1961's lone newcomer was the Kodiak Model 260 autoloader ( around $60 ) .
Previously known as Jefferson Arms , Kodiak has given this 11-shot hammerless job an exceptionally fine stock design , and the 260 is the first autoloader to handle
Magnum rim-fires .
Marlin has made two contributions to the harvest of new offerings .
The Model 99 ( under $45 ) is a light-weight , streamlined
rim-fire auto with a tubular magazine that holds 18 Long Rifles .
It's extremely accurate for an auto , and the test rifle I tried was completely trouble-free in functioning .
The 989 ( about $40 ) is an even newer
auto , this one with a seven- or 12-shot clip .
Once again the Mossberg Targo outfit has appeared , but this time as a bolt-action rifle-shotgun combination .
The bore is unrifled but is provided with an insert tube which is rifled and which , surprisingly , gives pretty fair accuracy even though it's only 3-1/2 inches long .
You can unscrew this tube and replace it with a smoothbore insert for use with
shotshells -- to break the little Targo clay targets .
A trap for throwing these miniature clays fastens to the barrel so that the shooter can throw his own targets .
A spring trap for solid mounting and a regular hand trap are also available .
You can have your choice of a seven-shot repeater , the 340TR ( about $40 ) or a single-shot , the 320TR ( $10 less ) .
The Targo is a good outfit for fun shooting or for economic wing-shooting practice , but it's tougher than it looks to run up a score on the clay birds .
They'll travel 50 feet or more when thrown from the spring trap but it's almost impossible to break one after it passes the 35-foot mark .
The combination of thin pattern and very tiny pellets makes it necessary to get on the birds , right now ! !
Big Magnum calibers appeared in the Remington line for 1961 , with the addition of the and to the list of Model 725's .
These are made on special order only , in Kodiak grade ( about $310 ) , with integral muzzle brakes and heavy rubber recoil pads ; ;
they weigh around nine pounds .
A shortened version of the highly regarded Remington 742 autoloader also appeared in 1961 .
This carbine ( under $140 , about $15 more for a deluxe grade ) has an 18-1/2-inch barrel and was obviously inspired by the popularity of last year's Model 760 pump with a short-barrel .
This design is hard to beat for timber hunting or for packing in a saddle scabbard .
Presently , the 742C is available in Af .
The latest versions of the famous Savage Model 99 are the 99 Featherweight ( about $125 ) and the 99 Deluxe ( under $135 ) , which have a top-tang safety and improved trigger design .
The replacement of the slide-lock side safety catch will make this lever-action favorite more appealing than ever since the new safety is easier and faster to operate .
Beginners' guns , '61
A fresh crop of beginners' guns showed up in 1961 , and they're good bets for your Christmas gift list if you're wondering what to get for a youngster .
The most unusual of them is the Ithaca 49 ( about $20 , $5 for a saddle scabbard ) -- a lever-action single-shot patterned after the famous Winchester lever-action and featuring the Western look .
Because of its traditional lines , it probably has more kid appeal than any other model .
The action is a drop-block , handling all the standard
rim-fires .
Marlin's latest is also designed for the beginning shooter , although it's a full-sized rifle with plenty of barrel weight and ample stock .
This is the Model 122 ( about $20 ) ; ;
it's a single-shot bolt-action with an automatic safety -- i.e. , the safety goes on every time the bolt is lifted and the gun cocked for the next shot .
Stock design is excellent , and this model is a good first gun .
Another boy's model is the
single-shot Remington 514C ( around $20 ) , which comes with a 21-inch barrel and a short -- 12-1/2-inch -- stock ; ;
it's just right for a boy of 12-1/2 .
A beginner's shotgun has also been introduced this year .
The single-barrel Stevens 940Y ( under $35 ) is made with a side lever rather than a top-tang lever because many youngsters aren't strong enough to operate a top tang to open a gun -- and the side lever does indeed open very easily .
This gun has a 12-1/2-inch stock and is available in either 20 or gauge .
There's another addition to the Stevens line , the pump-action Model 77 in ( under $75 ) , which you may or may not consider a kid's gun ; ;
many experienced hunters like this gauge and type of scattergun too .
Shotguns , '61
Although there were no startling developments in shotgun design this year , a number of new models and variations of existing models did hit the market .
For example , a Browning trap version of the Superposed over/under , the Broadway ( from $350 up , depending on grade ) , differs from standard models in that it is equipped with a full beavertail fore end , a cushion recoil pad and a barrel-wide ventilated rib for fast sighting .
The Colt line now includes a new scattergun , the Standard or Custom Pump Model ( about $90 and $150 , respectively ) in 12 , 16 and 20 .
Firearms International has introduced another import , this one from Finland .
It's the Valmet ( about $170 ) , a 12-gauge over/under very much like the old Remington 32 -- which was so fine a gun that today a used one still brings high prices .
High Standard has also added two models to its line .
The Supermatic Trophy ( prices begin at less than $135 and depend on grade and optional features ) is a 12-gauge auto .
The Flite-King Trophy ( beginning at just over $85 ) is a pump gun in 12 or 16 .
Either model is a very good dollar value .
Mossberg's latest contribution to the field is the Model 500 ( from $73.50 ) ; ;
this is an improved version of the old Model 200 , a pump-action 12-gauge shotgun .
See page 24 for a complete report on it .
Handguns , '61
Aside from the
Jet -- which I coupled with the Deerstalker carbine as one of the year's two biggest developments -- few significant innovations appeared among 1961's handguns .
Livery stable -- J. Vernon , prop. '' .
Coaching had declined considerably by 1905 , but the sign was still there , near the old Wells Fargo building in San Francisco , creaking in the fog as it had for thirty years .
John Vernon had had all the patronage he cared for -- he had prospered , but he could not retire from horsedom .
Coaching was in his blood .
He had two interests in life : the pleasures of the table and driving .
Twice a week he drove his tallyho over the Santa Cruz road , upland and through the redwood forest , with orchards below him at one hand , and glimpses of the Pacific at the other .
The journey back he made along the coast road , traveling hell-for-leather , every lantern of the tallyho ablaze .
The southward route was the classic run in California , and the most fashionable .
His patronage on this stretch was made up largely of San Franciscans -- regulars , most of them , and trenchermen like himself .
They did not complain at the inhuman hour of starting ( seven in the morning ) , nor of the tariff , which was reasonable since it covered everything but the tobacco .
Breakfast was at the Palace Hotel , luncheon was somewhere in the mountain forest , and dinner was either at Boulder Creek or at Santa Cruz .
Gazing too long at the scenery could be tiring , so halts were contrived between meals .
Then the Chinese hostler , who rode with Vernon on the box , would break open a hamper and produce filets of smoked bass or sturgeon , sandwiches , pickled eggs , and a rum sangaree to be heated over a spirit lamp .
In spring and in autumn the run was made for a group of botanists which included an old friend of mine .
They gathered roots , bulbs , odd ferns , leaves , and bits of resin from the rare Santa Lucia fir , which exists only on a forty-five mile strip on the westerly side of these mountains .
In the Spanish days Franciscan monks roamed here to collect the resin for incense .
It yields a fragrance as Orphic as that of the pastilles of Malabar .
Vernon was serviceable on the botanical field trips , but he could arrange no schedule with the cooks , and he was glad when the trips dropped off , and the botanists began to motor out by themselves .
My friend often breakfasted with Vernon on the morning of the regular tallyho run .
This was an honor , like dining with a captain at his private table .
Vernon's office adjoined the stable , and the walls were adorned with brightly colored lithographs , the folk art of the period .
They advertised harness polish , liniments , Ball's Rubber Boots , Green River Whiskey , Hood's Sarsaparilla , patent medicines , shoe blacking , and chewing tobacco .
The hostler would have the table ready and a pot of coffee hissing on the stove ; ;
then a porter from Manning's Fish House would trot in with a tray on his head .
It was draped with snowy napkins that kept hot a platter of oyster salt roast and a mound of corn fritters .
Vernon was consummately fond of oysters , and Manning's had been famous for them since the Civil War .
Oyster salt roast -- oysters on the half shell , cooked on a bed of coarse salt that kept them hot when served -- was a standby at Manning's .
Its early morning patrons were coachmen , who fortified themselves for the day with that delicacy .
In the 1890's the Palace Hotel began serving an oyster dish named after its manager , John C. Kirkpatrick .
This dish much resembles the oysters Rockefeller made famous by Antoine's in New Orleans , though the Palace chef announced it as a variant of Manning's roast oysters .
( Gastronomes have long argued about which came first , the Palace's or Antoine's .
Antoine's held as mandatory a splash of absinthe or Pernod on the parsley or spinach which was used for the underbedding .
The Kirkpatrick version holds liqueur as optional .
) Vernon , however , held out for plain oyster roast , and plenty of it , unadorned by herbs or any seasoning but salt , though he did fancy a bit of lemon .
After the meal , he and his guests went out to inspect the rig ; ;
this was merely a ritual , to please all hands concerned .
The tallyho had cost Vernon $2,300 .
A replica of two coaches made in England for the Belmont Club in the East , and matchless west of the Rockies , it was the despair of whips on the Santa Cruz run .
One could shave in the reflection of its French-polished panels , and its axles were greased like those of roulette wheels .
The horses were groomed to a high gloss ; ;
departing , they stepped solemnly with knees lifted to the jaw , for they had been trained to drag at important funerals .
But for the start of the Santa Cruz run , the whip fell .
The clients boarded the tallyho at the Palace promptly at seven .
They had been fed a hunting breakfast , so called because a kedgeree , the dish identified with fox hunting , was on the bill .
There are many ways of making a kedgeree , every one of which is right .
Here is an original kedgeree recipe from the Family Club's kitchen :
Club Kedgeree
Flake ( for three ) a cupful of cold boiled haddock , mix with a cupful of cooked rice , two minced hard-boiled eggs , some buttery white sauce done with cream , cayenne , pepper , salt , a pinch of curry , a tablespoonful of minced onion fried , and a bit of anchovy .
Heat and serve hot on toast .
The omelet named for Ernest Arbogast , the Palace's chef , was even more in demand .
For decades it was the most popular dish served in the Ladies' Grill at breakfast , and it is one of the few old Palace dishes that still survive .
Native California oysters , salty and piquant , as coppery as Delawares and not much larger than a five-cent piece , went into it .
The original formula goes thus :
omelet Arbogast
Fry in butter a small minced onion , rub with a tablespoonful of flour , add half a cup of cream , six beaten eggs , pepper , celery salt , a teaspoonful of minced chives , a dash of cayenne , and a pinch of nutmeg .
A jigger of dry Sherry follows , and as the mixture stiffens , in go a hundred of the little oysters .
Louis Sherry once stayed a fortnight at the Palace , and he was so pleased with omelet Arbogast that he introduced it at his restaurant in New York J. Pierpont Morgan had come in his private train to San Francisco , to attend an Episcopal convention , and brought the restaurateur with him .
As things happened , Morgan was installed in the Nob Hill residence of a magnate friend , whose kitchen swarmed with cooks of approved talent .
Sherry remained in his hotel suite , where he amused himself as best he could .
Twice he left everything to his entourage , and fled to make the Santa Cruz tour under Vernon's guidance .
In the grand court of the Palace , notable for its tiers of Moorish galleries that looked down on the maelstrom of vehicles below , Vernon's station was at the entrance .
It was a post of honor , held inviolate for him ; ;
he had the primacy among the coachmen .
Of majestic build , rubicund and slash-mouthed , he resembled the late General Winfield Scott , who was said to be the most imposing general of his century , if not of all centuries .
Vernon wore a gray tall hat , a gardenia , and maroon Wellington boots that glistened like currant jelly .
Promptly at seven he would clatter out of the court with twelve in the tallyho .
He had style : he held his reins in a loose bunch at the third button of his checked Epsom surtout , and when the horses leaned at a curve , as if bent by the force of a gale , he leaned with them .
They cantered down the peninsula , not slackening until the coach reached Woodside where the Santa Cruz uplands begin .
The road maps of the region have changed since 1905 ; ;
inns have burned down , moved elsewhere , or taken other names .
Once on the road ( and especially if the passengers were all regulars and masculine ) , the schedule meant nothing .
An agreeable ease suffused Vernon and the passengers of the tallyho , from which there issued clouds of smoke .
Vernon would tilt his hat over one ear as he lounged with his feet on the dashboard , indulging in a huge cigar .
The horses moved at a clump ; ;
they were no more on parade than was their driver ; ;
one fork of the road was as good as another .
The Santa Cruz mountains sprawl over three counties , and the roads twist through sky-tapping redwoods down whose furrowed columns ripple streams of rain , even when heat bakes the Santa Clara valley below at the left .
The water splashes into shoulder-high tracts of fernery .
You arrive there in seersucker , and feel you were half-witted not to bring a mackintosh .
Vernon kept an account book with a list of all the establishments that he thought worthy of patronage .
A number of them must have fallen into disfavor ; ;
they were struck out with remarks in red ink , denouncing both the cooks and the management .
He was copious in his praise of those that served food that was good to eat .
The horses seemed to know these by instinct , he used to say : such places invariably had stables with superior feed bins .
There was Wright's , for one , lost amongst trees , its wide verandas strewn with rockers .
Many of its sojourners were devoted to seclusion and quiet , and lived there to the end of their days .
It was the haunt of writer Ambrose Bierce , who admired its redwoods .
Acorns from the great oaks fed the small black pigs ( akin to Berkshires ) , whose `` carcass sweepstakes '' were renowned .
Their ham butts , cured in oak-log smoke , were also esteemed when roasted or boiled , and served with this original sauce :
Wright's devil sauce
; ;
put into a saucepan a cupful of the baked ham gravy , or of the boiled ham liquor , with a half stick of butter , three teaspoonfuls of made mustard , and two mashed garlic cloves .
Contribute also an onion , a peeled tomato and two pickled gherkins , and a mashed lime .
After this has simmered an hour , add two tablespoons each of Worcestershire , catsup , and chutney , two pickled walnuts , and a pint of Sherry .
Then simmer fifteen minutes longer .
Every winter a kegful of this sauce was made and placed at the end of a row of four other kegs in the cellar , so that when its turn came , it was properly mellowed .
Vineyards and orchards also grew around Wright's , and deer were rather a nuisance ; ;
they leaped six-foot fences with the agility of panthers .
But no one complained when they wound up , regardless of season , in venison pies .
No one complained of the white wine either : at this altitude of two thousand feet , grapes acquire a dryness and the tang of gunflint .
( The Almaden vineyards have now climbed to this height .
) Apple trees grew there also .
Though creeks in the Santa Cruz mountains flow brimful the year round and it is forever spring , the apples that grow there have a wintry crackle .
Dwellers thereabouts preferred to get their apple pies at the local bakery , which had a brick oven fired with redwood billets .
The merit of the pie , Vernon believed , was due more to its making than to the waning heat of the oven .
The recipe , which he got from the baker , and wrote down in his ledger , is basically this :
Wright's apple pie
; ;
peel , core , and slice across enough apples to make a dome in the pie tin , and set aside .
In a saucepan put sufficient water to cover them , an equal amount of sugar , a sliced lemon , a tablespoonful of apricot preserve or jam , a pinch each of clove and nutmeg , and a large bay leaf .
Let this boil gently for twenty minutes , then strain .
Poach the apples in this syrup for twelve minutes , drain them , and cool .
Set the apples in the pastry-lined tin , spread over them three tablespoonfuls of softened butter , with as much brown sugar , a sprinkling of nutmeg , and a fresh bay leaf , then lay on a cover of pastry , and gild it with beaten yolk of egg .
Those who have never traveled the width and length of this land cannot conceive , on the basis of textbook description alone , the overwhelming space and variety of this country held together under one government .
The miracle of democratic America comes home to one most strongly only when one has seen the endless Great Plains of the Midwest ; ;
the sky-reaching peaks of the Northwest mountains ; ;
the smoke-filled , art-filled , drama-filled life of the great cities of the East ; ;
the lush and historic charm of the South .
Now , to add to the already unbelievable extremes found in one nation , we have the two new states of Hawaii and Alaska .
To hope to cover just one region of this land and to enjoy all of its sights and events and , of course , to bring back pictures of your experiences , requires advance planning .
For this reason , U.S. Camera has prepared this special U.S.A. vacation feature .
We divided the country into five regions plus Hawaii and Alaska and in each is included a general description of the area plus specific recommendations of places and events to cover .
Any special photographic requirements are also given .
Use this section to plan now to make the most of your vacation in photogenic America .
The Northeast
birthplace of the nation , the Northeast offers historic battlefields ; ;
lovely old villages and a rugged seashore among its many worthwhile sights .
The rolling farms of Maryland , the peerless metropolis of New York City , the verdant mountains of Vermont can all be included in your Northeast vacation .
By automobile from New York , for example , you can take a one or two-day tour to Annapolis , Maryland to see the colonial homes and the U.S. Naval Academy ( where you can shoot the dress parade on Wednesdays ) ; ;
to Washington , D.C. , for an eye-filling tour of the city ; ;
or to Lancaster , Pa. , the center of the Pennsylvania Dutch country ; ;
Philadelphia with its historic buildings and nearby Valley Forge ; ;
to West Point , N.Y. , the famous military academy in a beautiful setting on the Hudson River .
New England deserves as much of your vacation time as you can afford with such areas as Cape Cod providing wonderful beaches , artists' colonies and quaint townships .
From here you can easily include a side trip to the old whaling port of Nantucket , Massachusetts , which looks just as it must have two centuries ago .
At Sturbridge Village , Massachusetts , you'll find a completely-restored New England town .
North to Acadia National Park , Maine , with views of a rockbound coast and dark , magnificent forests .
One of the most exciting ways to end a Northeast vacation would be with a week in New York City .
Return through New England , stopping for a visit to Lake Champlain where you can take a boat ride and go to Ethan Allen Park .
There you'll witness a view which includes the Adirondack Mts. and the Winooski River .
Now you're ready for a whirlwind sightseeing tour of America's most exciting city .
The skyline , the bridges , Broadway , and the Staten Island ferry are only a few of the spots to put on your `` must '' list for New York City .
Photographing in the Northeast
Some tips for shooting in Northeastern locales : In New York City don't miss coverage of the United Nations .
These striking , modernistic buildings on the East River are open to the public and every weekday guided tours are available .
Pictures can be taken in the public areas and when on tours .
However , the use of tripods is not allowed .
Photos of Conference Rooms and the General Assembly Hall can be made when these rooms are not being used for meetings .
Flash is allowed , subject to above restrictions .
Around New England , you'll no doubt want a color shot of one of the picturesque lighthouses .
Be careful here not to overexpose this subject since they are extremely bright and light-reflecting .
In color , 1/50th of a second between Af and Af will do for bright , frontal sunlight .
The South
the southern United States , extending from Florida in the east to Texas in the west , still maintains its unique flavor of gracious living and historical elegance .
It encompasses in its expanse areas where the natural beauty encourages a vacation of quiet contemplation , on the one hand , to places where entertainment and spectacles of all sorts have been provided for the tourist with camera .
Of special interest this anniversary year of the war between the states are the many Civil War battlefields where , likely as not , you'll catch some memorial re-enactments .
Among the locales to visit are Shiloh , Tennessee ; ;
Lookout Mountain , Tennessee ; ;
Vicksburg , Mississippi ; ;
Richmond , Virginia ; ;
Petersburg , Virginia , and Fredericksburg , Virginia .
Florida provides tropical scenes unequalled in the United States .
At Cypress Gardens special bleachers are set up for photographers at water-ski shows and lovely models pose for pictures in garden settings .
Silver Springs features glass-bottom boat rides and in Everglades National Park there are opportunities to photograph rare wildlife .
Miami Beach and surroundings feature fabulous `` hotel row '' , palm-studded beaches plus the Miami Seaquarium and Parrot Jungle .
One of the most delightful spots in a southern tour is the city of New Orleans .
The famous old French and Spanish buildings with their elaborate wrought iron balconies and the narrow streets of the Latin Quarter present an Old World scene .
For restoration of early American life the places to visit are Williamsburg , Jamestown and Yorktown , Virginia .
Another Virginia sight and a photographic adventure are the Luray Caverns , lit by photofloodlights .
The great state of Texas offers metropolitan attractions such as the Dallas Fair Park with its art and natural history museums .
In contrast are the vast open stretches of ranch country and oil wells .
In San Antonio visit the famous Alamo and photograph 18th Century Spanish buildings and churches .
The Great Smoky Mountains is another area of the South well worth a visit .
Along the 127-mile route through Great Smoky Mountains National Park you can photograph the breath-taking peaks , gorges and valleys which come into view at every turn .
Gatlinburg , Tennessee , is the center of this area .
Another scenic spot in Tennessee is Chattanooga where the Rock City Gardens are not to be missed .
Beautiful homes and gardens are trademarks of the South and cities particularly noted for them are Charleston , S.C. , Natchez , Miss. , and Savannah , Ga. .
At Charlottesville , Va. , shoot Monticello and the beautiful buildings of the University .
Picturing the south
Foliage is the outstanding photo subject in many of the Southern locales mentioned above and some specific tips on how and where to shoot it are in order .
For example , the Chamber of Commerce of Gatlinburg , Tennessee , sponsors special camera tours into the Great Smoky Mountains to get pictures of the profusion of wild flowers flourishing in these wooded regions .
Exposure problems may occur in these forest areas where uneven lighting results from shafts of sunlight filtering through the overhead branches .
Best solution is to find an area that is predominantly sunlight or shade .
In any instance , you should determine the exposure according to the type of light which falls on most of the subject area .
Try some closeups on Southern blossoms to provide a welcome contrast with the many long-view scenics you'll be making .
For shooting the interiors of the famous ante-bellum Southern mansions make sure your equipment includes a tripod .
Enough daylight is usually available from the windows , but if you have synchronized flash -- use it .
For some unusual photographic subjects , if your vacation takes you nearby , try these events : the 600-mile auto race in Charlotte , N.C. , , on May 27 ; ;
the Florida Folk Festival , White Springs , May 5-7 ; ;
Singing On The Mountain in Linville , North Carolina , on June 25 .
Peak action photography is your goal at Miami's Seaquarium and the Cypress Gardens waterskiing events .
The Midwest
A pleasant start to your midwestern vacation is a few days spent in cosmopolitan Chicago .
Lake Michigan offers swimming and pictures which combine cityscapes with beaches .
A visit to Chicago's museums and a stroll around broad Michigan Avenue will unfold many photogenic subjects to the alert photographer .
Wisconsin Dells , where fantastically scenic rocks carved by the Wisconsin River are overgrown with fern and other foliage , rates a stopover when traveling from Chicago .
The farmlands forming the heart of America stretch out across the Midwest from Chicago .
In North Dakota the strangely beautiful Badlands will challenge you to translate its wonder on to film .
While here , visit Theodore Roosevelt National Park for its spectacular scenery .
Another spot with an image-provoking name is the Black Hills where you can visit the old frontier mining town of Deadwood .
The Black Hills Passion Play is produced every summer and is a pageant worth seeing and shooting .
Of course , while in this vicinity you won't want to miss a visit to Mount Rushmore National Memorial where on the side of a mountain are the famous sculptures of Presidents Washington , Lincoln , Jefferson and Theodore Roosevelt .
In Missouri ( which we are including in our general Midwest region ) you can glance into Mark Twain's birthplace at Hannibal , see the landmarks of his life and writings and visualize where Huck Finn hatched his boyish mischief .
Similarly in Illinois there is Lincoln country to be seen -- his tomb and other landmarks .
Minnesota , fabled land of waters , is in itself , ideal vacationland , having within its borders 10,000 lakes ! !
Itasca State Park , where the Mississippi River begins , is one of the outstanding tourist spots in Minnesota .
Mementoes of the Old West recall the days of Wyatt Earp in Dodge City , Nebraska , where present-day cowboys add a colorful human interest note to your vacation shooting .
Of current interest is Abilene , Kansas , the birthplace of ex-President Eisenhower .
There's a museum here and also Old Abilene Town , a reconstruction of the cattle boomtown of the 70's and 80's .
For a resort area , Mackinack Island , Michigan , is the place to visit .
It truly relives another age for the inhabitants use carriages rather than autos and old British and French forts are left intact for tourists to visit and record .
Pictures of the Midwest
Night scenes will add an exciting touch to your vacation travelogue and what better place to take them then along Chicago's Lake Shore Drive ? ?
Just after sunset is a good time to record the city lights in color since you get a `` fill-in '' light from the sky .
Another memo for sightseers : bring your camera along to museums .
Photos of historic dioramas of the area you visit will add depth and background to your vacation photo story .
Again , be sure your tripod is handy for those sometimes-necessary time exposures .
Special events and their dates which will make interesting shooting in the Midwest area , include the following :
A re-enactment of the Battle of Lexington , May 18th at Lexington , Missouri ; ;
the world-renowned 500-mile auto race at Indianapolis , Indiana , plus a festival from May 27-30 ; ;
`` Song Of Hiawatha '' , in Elgin , Illinois , from June 20 to 24th .
Michigan offers the lovely Tulip Festival in Holland , Michigan , May 12-14 ; ;
the USGA Open in Birmingham from June 15-17 ; ;
and the International Freedom Festival in Detroit , June 29 thru July 4 .
For early vacationers there's the fun-filled Fishing Derby in Hot Springs , Arkansas , April 19-23 , and the Arkansas Band Festival in Hot Springs , April 20-22 .
The West
A western vacation is practically synonymous with a visit to at least one of the magnificent national parks in this area .
A tour of several of them is possible in a two-week vacation while a stay at just one of these natural beauty spots can be of equal reward .
In California is located one of the most popular of the national parks -- Yosemite .
Among its most spectacular features are its falls , the highest being Upper Yosemite which drops 2,425 feet .
The Sequoia Grove presents another unique aspect of Yosemite , for these ancient giant trees are a sight never to be forgotten .
In the Utah area are Zion National Park and Bryce Canyon National Park .
Fantastic colors are to be seen in the fanciful formations of eroded rock which loom out of the semiarid country in both parks .
Colorado's Grand Canyon , probably the most famous landmark of the United States , can be the highpoint of your Western vacation .
Built upon seven hills , Istanbul , like Rome , is one of the most ancient cities in the world , filled with splendor and contrast .
It is an exotic place , so different from the ordinary that the casual tourist is likely to see at first only the contrast and the ugliness of narrow streets lined with haphazard houses .
At the moment , many of these are being pulled down .
Whole blocks are disappearing and more are scheduled to vanish to make room for wide boulevards that will show off its treasures to better advantage -- the great domes and graceful spires of its mosques , the panorama of the Bosphorus and the Golden Horn .
Even when they are finished , however , the contrast will remain , for Istanbul is the only city in the world that is built upon two continents .
For almost 3,000 years Europe and Asia have rubbed shoulders in its streets .
Founded in the Ninth Century B.C. it was called Byzantium 200 years later when Byzas , ruler of the Megarians , expanded the settlement and named it after himself .
About a thousand years after that , when the Roman Empire was divided , it became capital of the Eastern section .
On May 11,330 , A.D. , , its name was changed again , this time to Constantinople after its emperor , Constantine .
In 1453 when the last vestige of ancient Roman power fell to the Turks , the city officially shifted religions -- although the Patriarch , or Pope , of the Orthodox Church continued to live there , and still does -- and became the capital of the Ottoman Empire .
When that was broken up after the First World War , its name was changed once more .
Rich in Christian and Moslem art , Istanbul is today a fascinating museum of East and West that recently became a seaside resort as well with the development of new beaches on the Bosphorus and the Sea of Marmara only a short distance from the center of town .
Easy to get to , and becoming more popular every year , it is only fourteen hours from New York by Pan American World Airways jet , four hours from Rome .
Start of tour
Most of the sights lie in the old section across the Golden Horn from the modern hotels .
I started my tour of them at the Turkish Government Tourist Office , next to Pan American's office on the left as you enter the driveway that leads to the Hilton Hotel .
From there I turned left along Cumhuriyet Cadesi past more hotels and a park on the left , Republic Gardens , and came in a few moments to Taksim Square , one of the hubs of the city , with the Monument of the Republic , erected in 1928 , in its center .
Directly across from the Gardens I found a bus stop sign for T 4 and rode it down to the Bosphorus , with the sports center on my left just before I reached the water and the entrance to Dolmabahce Palace immediately after that .
There the bus turned right along the Bosphorus , past ocean liners at anchor , to Galata Bridge over the entrance to the Golden Horn , a brown sweep of water that empties into the Bosphorus .
Across the bridge on the left I saw St. Sophia with its sturdy brown minarets and to the right of them the slenderer spires of the Blue Mosque .
On the other side of the Golden Horn I rode through Eminonu Square , with Yeni Cami , or the New Mosque , which dates from the Seventeenth Century , just across from the entrance to the bridge .
Passing it , the bus climbed a hill , with the covered spice bazaar on the right and Pandelli's , a famous and excellent restaurant , above it .
At the top of the hill the buildings on the left gave way to a park .
I got off there , crossed the street , walked ahead with St. Sophia on my left , the Blue Mosque on my right , and in a moment came to the entrance of St. Sophia .
Erected on the site of pagan temples and three previous St. Sophias , the first of which was begun by Constantine , this fourth church was started by Justinian in 532 and completed twenty years later .
On his first trip to the finished structure he boasted that he had built a temple grander than Solomon's in Jerusalem .
A few years later the dome fell in .
Nevertheless , it remained one of the most splendid churches of the Eastern Empire , where the Byzantine Emperors were crowned .
After the Turks conquered the city in 1453 they converted it to a mosque , adding the stubby minarets .
In the second half of the Sixteenth Century , Sinan , the great architect who is the Michelangelo of the East , designed the massive buttresses that now help support the dome .
With the birth of the Turkish Republic after the First World War , St. Sophia became a museum , and the ancient mosaics , which were plastered over by the Moslems , whose religion forbids pictures in holy places , have been restored .
Inside over the first door I saw one of these , which shows Constantine offering the city to the Virgin Mary and Justinian offering the temple .
On the columns around the immense dome are round plaques with Arabic writing .
The eight green columns , I learned , came from the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus , the others , red , from the Temple of the Sun at Heliopolis .
Beneath the dome I saw the spot where the Byzantine Emperors were crowned , a bit of floor protected now by a wooden fence .
Behind this is a minber or Moslem pulpit and near it a raised platform with golden grillwork , where the emperors and , after them , the sultans , sat .
Directly opposite is the emperor's door , through which they entered the building .
Outside St. Sophia I walked through the flower garden in front of it , with the Blue Mosque ahead on my left .
Across the street on my right I saw the Hippodrome , now a park .
It was laid out in 196 for chariot races and other public games .
Statues and other monuments that stood there were stolen , mostly by the waves of Crusaders .
At the beginning of the Hippodrome I saw the Kaiser's Fountain , an ugly octagonal building with a glass dome , built in 1895 by the German Emperor , and on my left , directly across from it , the tomb of Sultan Ahmet , who constructed the Blue Mosque , more properly known by his name .
Just before coming to the mosque entrance I crossed the street , entered the Hippodrome , and walked ahead to the Obelisk of Theodosius , originally erected in Heliopolis in Egypt about 1,600 B.C. by Thutmose , who also built those now in New York , London and Rome at the Lateran .
This one was set up here in 390 A.D. on a pedestal , the faces of which are carved with statues of the emperor and his family watching games in the Hippodrome , done so realistically that the obelisk itself is included in them .
Beyond it I noted a small green column , about twelve feet below the present ground level -- the Serpentine Column , three entwined serpents , which once stood at the Temple of Apollo at Delphi , Greece .
Near the end of the Hippodrome I came upon the Built Column , a truncated obelisk of blocks , all that remains of a monument that once rivalled the Colossus of Rhodes .
Magnificent Mosque
Retracing my steps to the Mosque of Sultan Ahmet , only one with six minarets , I entered the courtyard , with a gallery supported by pointed arches running around it and a fountain in the middle .
One of the most beautiful buildings in Istanbul , it was constructed in the early years of the Seventeenth Century , with a huge central dome , two half domes that seem to cascade down from it , and smaller full domes around the gallery .
The round minarets , tall and graceful , rise from rectangular bases and have three platforms from which the muezzin can chant his call to prayer .
Inside , the walls are covered with blue and white tile , the floor with red and cream carpets .
Back at the Kaiser's Fountain , I walked left to the streetcar stop and rode up the hill -- any car will do -- past the Column of Constantine , also known as the Burnt Column , at the top on my right .
It stands in the middle of what was once the Forum of Constantine , who brought it from Rome .
I stayed on the car for a few minutes until , turning right , it entered a huge square , Bayezit , with the Bayezit Mosque on the right and the gate to the university just beyond it .
There I got off , crossed the square , and on the side directly opposite the gate found a good restaurant , hard to come by in this part of the city .
Called the Marmara Gazinosu , it is on the third floor , with signs pointing the way there , and has a terrace overlooking the Sea of Marmara .
After lunch , in the arcade on my left just before reaching the street I found a pastry shop that sells some of the best baklava -- a sweet , flaky cake -- in Istanbul .
It's a great favorite of the university students , and I joined them there for dessert .
Taking the streetcar back to Kaiser's Fountain , I walked ahead , then left down the street opposite St. Sophia and just beyond the corner came to a small , one-story building with a red-tile roof , which is the entrance to the Sunken Palace .
Actually an underground cistern , its roof supported by rows and rows of pillars , it was built by Justinian in the Sixth Century to supply the palace with water .
There is still water in it .
I found it fairly depressing and emerged almost immediately .
Outside I walked past the entrance to St. Sophia , turned left at the end of it , and continued toward a gate in the wall ahead .
Just before reaching it I came to a grey and brown stone building that looks somewhat like an Oriental pagoda , with Arabic lettering in gold and colored tile decorations -- the Fountain of Sultan Ahmet .
Going through the Imperial Gate in the wall , I entered the grounds of Topkapi Palace , home of the Sultans and nerve center of the vast Ottoman Empire , and walked along a road toward another gate in the distance , past the Church of St. Irene , completed by Constantine in 330 A.D. on my left , and then , just outside the second gate , I saw a spring with a tap in the wall on my right -- the Executioner's Spring , where he washed his hands and his sword after beheading his victims .
Passing through the gate , with towers on either side once used as prisons , I entered a huge square surrounded by buildings , and on the wall to my right found a general plan of the grounds , with explanations in English for each building .
There are a good many of them .
At one time about 10,000 people lived there .
Following arrowed signs , I veered right toward the former kitchens , complete with chimneys , which now house one of the world's greatest collections of Chinese porcelain and a fabulous array of silver dinner services .
Next to it is a copper section , with cooking utensils and a figure of the chief cook in an elaborate , floor-length robe .
In the court once more , I went right toward the Reception House , a long one-story building with a deep portico .
Going through a door into another small court , I had the Throne Room directly in front .
I walked to the right around it to buildings containing illuminated manuscripts and came to the Treasury , which houses such things as coffee cups covered with diamonds , jewelled swords , rifles glittering with diamonds and huge divan-like thrones as large as small beds , on which the sultans sat cross-legged .
They are made of gold and covered with emeralds , pearls and other jewels .
Taking the path behind the Throne Room to the building directly beyond it , the Portrait Gallery , I went right at the end of it , through a garden to a small building at the back -- a sitting room furnished with low blue divans , its floor covered with carpets , its ceiling painted with gold squares and floral designs .
( Do start fires one or two hours ahead of time to obtain a lasting bed of glowing coals .
Keep ashes from one barbecue to the next to sprinkle over coals if they are too hot , and to stop flames that arise from melting grease .
Do line barbecue fire bowl with heavy foil to reflect heat .
Don't forget to buy a plastic pastry brush for basting with sauces .
Clean it meticulously in boiling water and detergent , rinse thoroughly .
Do build a wall of glowing coals six to eight inches in front of meat that is barbecued on an electric spit .
Make use of the back of the barbecue or of the hood for heating vegetables , sauces and such .
Don't fail to shorten cooking time by the use of aluminum foil cut slightly larger than the surface of steaks and chops .
Sear on both sides then cover meat loosely with heat reflecting foil for juiciest results .
Do avoid puncturing or cutting into meats to test them .
If doubtful about a steak , boldly cut it in half .
If necessary to replace both halves on grill , sear cuts and allot extra time .
For roasts , insert meat thermometer diagonally so it does not rest on bone .
Also make sure thermometer does not touch the revolving spit or hit the coals .
Don't practice a new recipe on guests .
Have a test-run on the family first , to be sure timing and seasoning are right .
Do buy meat the day or the day before you intend to cook it .
Keep it no longer than 36 hours before cooking , and keep it in the coldest ( but non-freezing ) compartment of the refrigerator .
Don't plan meals that are too complicated .
Limit yourself to good meat and drink , with bread , salad , corn or potatoes as accessories .
Keep the desserts simple ; ;
fruit does nicely .
Do whatever kitchen work , such as fixing a salad , preparing garlic bread , or making a marinade sauce , ahead of time .
When you start the outdoor performance , you can stay outdoors without a dozen running trips into the kitchen .
( This goes for getting a drink tray ready , and for having a big cooler full of ice on hand long before the party begins .
)
Don't think you have to start with the most expensive equipment in the world .
The simplest grill ( pan type ) or inexpensive hibachi can make you a chef .
You need tongs to handle meat ; ;
long forks for turning potatoes and corn ; ;
heavy foil on hand at all times .
And lots of hot pads ! !
Do keep the grill high enough above the fire so that when fat from meat drips down and flares up , flames cannot reach the meat .
Don't forget to have a supply of Melamine plates , bowls , cups , saucers , and platters for outdoor use .
Made of the world's toughest unbreakable plastic , Melamine dinnerware comes in almost 400 different patterns and dozens of colors .
There is even one set that has `` barbecue '' written on it .
Do without fancy tablecloths .
It's cheaper to buy Wall-Tex and cover your outdoor table .
Or buy half a dozen lengths of oilcloth and change patterns for different kinds of barbecues .
Oilcloth only costs about 79-cents a yard for the very best .
Tougher than plastic , it wears well .
Don't forget -- when you take to the hills or the beach -- that your cooler , which you might have used for wine- or beer-cooling on your terrace or back yard , is indispensable for carrying liquid refreshments .
There are many varieties of coolers and they serve many purposes .
With them , you can carry steaks and hamburgers at refrigerator temperatures , and also get your frozen food for stews and chowders , to the marina or picnic , in A-1 condition .
Do use paper napkins ; ;
lots of them .
Except when you prepare `` do it yourself '' shish kebob or a lobster roast .
Then you'll want terry cloth towels for mopping up .
Don't think barbecue cooking is just sometimes , or seasonal .
It's year-round , and everywhere .
In the winter , hibachi in the kitchen or grill over the logs of the fireplace .
Even use your portable electric or gas grill in the winter , inside .
Summertime supper , outside , is a natural .
You'll find , once your technique is perfected , that you can cook on a boat with a simple Bernz-O-Matic .
Do buy all-purpose mugs or cups .
Get copper or earthenware mugs that keep beer chilled or soup hot .
Be sure to get a few more than you need .
You will discover you keep the sauce for basting meat in one , use six for drinks , serve soup or coffee in another half-dozen -- and need one more to mix the salad dressing .
Don't forget the joys of a meal on the road .
If you travel over the vast U.S.A. you will , no doubt , discover that feeding is an expensive business .
Decide in the beginning to put your barbecue equipment to work .
You can take it with you .
A picnic bag , a grill , a cooler for soft drinks and beer , and for frozen convenience foods .
Eat in a restaurant or motel mornings and evenings ; ;
or just evenings .
Turn off at any one of the marked picnic areas ( gasoline companies have touring service bureaus that issue booklets on national parks to tell you where you have barbecue facilities ) and -- with soft drinks cooled from morning loading up , hamburger , buns , an array of relishes , and fresh fruit -- your lunch is 75% cheaper than at a restaurant , and 100% more fun .
You need a little stove , a coffee pot and a stew pot ; ;
maybe a skillet , a basket of essentials like salt , pepper , plates , forks , knives and a can opener .
As you pull out of your motel or national park home-for-the-night , visit a market and buy just what you need for the next meal .
For 25-cents load up the cooler with ice and keep cool pop in the car .
Simple meat dishes
spice is a fact of life in the U.S.A. .
You only have to think of franks and sausages to know what I mean .
Go a step further and list all the wonderful barbecue basics -- cervelat , salami , Vienna sausages , mettwurst , bratwurst , bockwurst , knackwurst , Bologna , pepperoni , blutwurst -- and you have a long list of easy specialties .
Threaded on a skewer with new boiled potatoes , a bit of green pepper , a fresh white mushroom -- any one of these spiced meats makes a man a cook , and a meal a feast .
Sure , for the most of us , a frankfurter is the favorite .
A story goes that a certain Herr Feuchtwanger of St. Louis , around 1883 served his sausages ( grilled ) and mustard to his fancy customers .
So that his customers should not soil their hands , Feuchtwanger issued white gloves .
Discovery that the gloves frequently left with the customers made the wise peddler of spiced sausage-meat come upon a compromise .
He had a bakery make buns sized to fit his franks .
Years later , franks-in-buns were accepted as the `` first to go '' at the New York Polo Grounds .
The nation's number one picnic treat is the skinless frankfurter -- toasted over a bonfire on the beach or , more sedately , charcoal broiled on a portable grill .
Either way it's hard to beat in flavor as well as ease of preparation .
To make the picnic frank come close to perfection , remember these tips :
-- Score each frankfurter in four or five places about a third of the way through .
This permits the juices to permeate the meat during cooking .
-- Relishes are as vital to the success of the frank as are buns .
Bring along the conventional ones -- catsup , pickle relish , mustard , mayonnaise -- plus a few extras , such as tangy barbecue sauce , chive cream cheese , or horse-radish for the brave ones in the crowd .
-- Using a portable grill permits you to toast the buns , too .
Watch closely while browning them , as it doesn't take long .
-- An unusual flavor can be achieved by marinating the franks in French dressing or a mixture of honey , lemon juice and brown sugar prior to the picnic .
Broil or toast as usual .
Contrary to popular opinion , `` a la mode '' doesn't mean `` with ice cream '' -- it just means , in the latest style .
Here are a couple of the latest , highly styled ways to fix skinless franks in your own back yard ! !
You'll have the neighbor's eyes popping as well as their mouths watering ! !
Jiffy barbecues
1 cup chili sauce 1/3 cup water 1 tablespoon barbecue sauce 2 teaspoons prepared mustard 1/2 pound chipped , spiced ham 6 sandwich buns , heated
.
Combine first 4 ingredients in saucepan ; ;
heat thoroughly .
Add ham ; ;
heat .
Serve on buns .
Makes 6 barbecues .
Hot hibachi franks
You'll never hear `` sayonara '' , the Japanese word for goodbye , from your guests when you give a hibachi party .
The fun of toasting their own sausages over the small Oriental charcoal burners and dipping them in tasty sauces will keep your group busy -- try it and see ! !
Canned cocktail frankfurters
sweet-sour sauce
1 large onion , chopped fine 2 tablespoons salad oil 1 8-oz. can crushed pineapple and 1/2 cup of the juice 1/4 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons vinegar 1 tablespoon prepared mustard 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce pineapple chunks
.
Mustard cream
2 tablespoons dry mustard Water 1/2 cup heavy cream , whipped Salt Paprika
.
Spear canned cocktail franks with picks .
Also spear pineapple chunks and place in separate bowl .
Make sauces ahead .
Sweet-sour sauce can be kept warm over a second hibachi or chafing dish while charcoal in broiler is reaching glowing coal stage .
Mustard cream , used as alternate dip for franks and pineapple tidbits , tastes best when served at room temperature .
For sweet-sour sauce , cook onion in oil until soft .
Add remaining ingredients and bring to a boil .
Simmer about 10 minutes , and keep warm for serving .
To prepare mustard cream , blend mustard with enough water to make a thin paste .
Fold into whipped cream and add a dash of salt and sprinkling of paprika .
Trim-your-own-franks
A back-yard picnic with grilled frankfurters and a selection of frankfurter trimmings is a fine way to entertain guests this summer .
Be sure to have plenty of frankfurters and buns on hand .
Some tasty frank toppings are chili con carne , Coney Island sauce and savory sauerkraut .
Serve the chili and kraut hot with the franks .
Here are suggestions for the frankfurter trimmings : 1 .
Chili con carne : use canned chili con carne .
2 .
Coney Island sauce : finely chop several onions and add enough catsup to moisten well ; ;
add prepared mustard to suit taste .
3 .
Savory sauerkraut : add several tablespoons of brown sugar to a can of sauerkraut .
Add a few caraway seeds , too , if you'd like .
Barbecued frankfurters
1/2 cup minced celery 1/4 cup minced onion 1/2 cup tomato ketchup 1/2 cup water 1/4 cup vinegar 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 tablespoon prepared mustard 1/2 teaspoon salt 8 frankfurters
.
Combine first 9 ingredients in skillet .
Simmer 15 minutes .
Prick frankfurters with fork ; ;
place in sauce .
Cover ; ;
simmer 15 minutes , stirring occasionally , until sauce is of desired consistency .
Serve in frankfurter buns or as a meat dish .
Makes 8 sandwiches or 4 servings .
Pretend ham
Make criss-cross gashes on one side of skinless frankfurters .
Stick 4 or 5 cloves in each frank , ham fashion .
Make a paste of brown sugar and mustard and spread lightly over scored surface .
If desired , sprinkle with 1 teaspoon drained crushed pineapple .
Place on rectangle of foil and pinch edges together tightly .
Roast on grill over coals 15-20 minutes .
Frankfurter twists
Blend 2 cups biscuit mix with 2/3 cup milk to make a soft dough .
Knead on lightly floured board and roll out to form a Af-inch rectangle .
Spread dough with a mixture of 3 tablespoons chili sauce , 1 teaspoon horse-radish and 2 teaspoons mustard .
Cut dough carefully into 12 strips , about 3/4 inch by a foot long .
Twist one strip diagonally around each skinless frankfurter , pinching dough at ends to seal it .
Brush frankfurter twists with about 1/2 cup melted butter and toast slowly over glowing coals until dough is golden brown .
Serves 12 .
Hamburger patties with nuts
1 pound ground beef 2 teaspoons grated onion Dash of pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup chopped walnuts 1/4 cup ice cold bourbon
.
Combine ingredients ; ;
form into patties and barbecue 5 minutes on each side .
Note :
Directions are written for those who have had previous experience in making pottery .
Instructions for preparing clay , drying , glazing and firing are not given .
Equipment :
Basic pottery studio equipment .
Wooden butter molds and cookie presses .
Materials :
Ceramic modeling clay : red , white or buff .
Stoneware clay for tiles .
Glazes , one-stroke ceramic colors , stains , cones as indicated in the individual instructions .
General directions :
Use well-wedged clay , free of air bubbles and pliable enough to bend without cracking .
Clean wooden molds and presses thoroughly ; ;
they must be free of oil , wax and dust .
Pressing designs :
The size of wooden mold will determine the amount of clay needed .
Roll clay to thickness indicated in individual instructions .
Whenever possible , use the wooden mold as a pattern for cutting clay .
When mold has more than one design cavity , make individual paper patterns .
Place mold or paper pattern on rolled clay and cut clay by holding knife in vertical position ( cut more pieces than required for project to make allowance for defects ; ;
experiment with defects for decoration techniques of glazes and colors ) .
Place the cut clay piece loosely over the carved cavity design side of wooden mold .
To obtain clear impression of mold , press clay gently but firmly into mold cavity , starting at center and working to outer edges .
Trim excess clay away from outer edges .
Check thickness of clay and build up thin areas by moistening surface with a little water and adding small pieces of clay .
Be sure to press the additional clay firmly into place without locking in air bubbles .
Allow project to stand for about five minutes ( if wooden press mold is a good antique , do not leave clay in too long as the dampness may cause mold to crack ) .
To release clay from mold , place hands in a cupped position around project ; ;
gently lift the edge on far side , then continue to release edge completely around mold .
Slight tapping on the underside of mold will help release the clay , but too much agitation will cause the clay to become soft and will interfere with removal of clay from mold .
Place a piece of plaster wall board or plaster bat on clay and reverse bat , clay and mold in one action .
This will prevent the clay from twisting or bending , causing warping when fired .
Place project on table and carefully lift the mold off .
Study surface of clay for defects or desired corrections .
If clay is slightly out of shape , square straight sides with guide sticks or rulers pressed against opposite sides , or smooth round pieces with damp fingers .
If the background of design is too smooth , or you wish to create a wood-grained effect , it may be added at this time with a dull tool such as the handle of a fine paintbrush .
Make slight , smooth grooves rather than cuts for the texture ( cuts could cause air pockets under the glaze creating pinholes or craters in the glaze during firing ) .
Leave the clay on plaster board to dry slowly , covered lightly with a loose piece of plastic or cloth to prevent warping .
Rectangular tiles
( opposite page , right top ) : Stoneware clay was used .
Clay was rolled to 1/4'' '' thickness .
Back of clay scored or roughened for proper gripping surface .
No bisque firing .
Glazed with two coats of Creek-Turn white stoneware glaze ( no glaze on sides or bottom ) .
Decorated on unfired glaze with one coat of one-stroke ceramic colors ; ;
raised details of designs were colored in shades of yellow-green , blue-green , brown and pink .
Tiles were fired once to cone 05 .
Round plaque
( opposite page , bottom ) : White clay was used , rolled to 1/4'' '' thickness .
Bisque fired to cone 05 .
Stained with Jacquelyn's ceramic unfired stain , polished , following manufacturer's directions .
Opaque cantaloupe and transparent wood brown were used .
No further firing .
Paperweight
( opposite page , top left ) : Red clay was used , rolled 1/2'' '' thick .
Mold was used as pattern and clay cut by holding knife at about 45-degree angle , to form an undercut , making base smaller than the pattern top .
While clay is still pressed in mold , press three equally spaced holes 1/4'' '' deep , using pencil eraser , in bottom of clay to allow for proper drying and firing .
Paperweight may be personalized on back while clay is leather hard .
Bisque fired to cone 05 .
Unglazed .
Jars with lids
( opposite page , top left ) : Remove wooden design head from bowl of butter mold .
Fill small hole in bowl with clay .
Make paper patterns for sections of jar and lid ( see Fig. 1 , opposite page ) .
Measurements for rectangular pattern piece A are obtained by measuring inside circumference and depth of butter mold bowl .
Pattern for circular base piece B is diameter of Aj .
Use wooden design head of mold for pattern C ; ;
pattern D for lid fits over top diameter of Aj .
Pattern for inner lid piece E fits inside Aj .
Jars are assembled in bowl of butter mold .
Use white or buff clay , rolled to 3/16'' '' thickness .
Place patterns on rolled clay and cut around them with knife in vertical position .
Place clay pieces on wall board .
To assemble jar , put paper pattern B for base in bottom of mold and clay disk B on top .
Line sides of mold with paper pattern Aj .
Bevel and score ends of clay piece A so that they overlap about 1/2'' '' and make even thickness .
Place clay piece A inside ; ;
use slip to join overlapped ends together .
Join B to bottom of A , scoring and reinforcing with clay coil .
Trim excess clay from around lip of mold and set aside while assembling lid .
To assemble lid , press clay piece C in cavity of wooden design head .
Press clay into mold as instructed in General Directions .
Score plain side of C and leave in mold .
Score one side of disk D , join to C ; ;
score other side of D and one side of disk E and join as before .
While assembled lid is still on design head , gently but firmly press it on plaster board .
If design head has a deep cavity , clay lid will be quite thick at this point ; ;
press eraser of pencil gently 1/4'' '' deep into deep clay to allow vent for proper drying and firing .
Check fit of lid on jar ; ;
if inner lid is too big , trim to fit , allowing room for thickness of glaze .
Remove lid from head of mold .
Remove jar from mold .
Place jar on plaster board with lid in place to dry slowly .
Bisque fire to cone 08 with lid on jar .
For an antique effect on jars , brush Creek-Turn brown toner on bisque ware and sponge it off .
Glaze with two coats of clear or transparent matt glaze .
The large jar was brushed with Creek-Turn green toner and sponged off .
Glaze with two coats of matt glazes in turquoise with touches of blossom pink on lid .
When dry they were fired to cone 06-05 .
Little folks set :
( Made from modern wooden molds Af .
) Roll white clay to 3/16'' '' thickness .
Salt and pepper :
Use mold to cut four side pieces .
For top and bottom pieces , use short end of mold as measurement guide .
Press the side pieces of clay into cavity of mold .
Trim excess clay from rim of mold .
Cut beveled edge on the long sides of clay at a 45-degree angle to miter corners .
Score beveled edges and remove pieces from mold ; ;
place design-side up on plaster board .
Make all four sides .
Cut clay top and base pieces ; ;
place on plaster board .
Allow all pieces to become leather hard before constructing shaker .
To assemble :
Construct sides , bottom and top as for box , using slip on scored edges and coils of clay to reinforce seams .
Join the four sides together first , then add the base ; ;
add top last .
Use water on finger to smooth seams and edges .
Turn shaker upside down .
Recess base slightly to allow room for stopper .
Cut hole in base for cork stopper .
Add holes in top , forming `` S '' for salt and `` P '' for pepper .
Set aside to dry thoroughly .
Sugar and creamer :
Cut a strip of clay for sides long enough and wide enough for three impressions of mold design .
Press clay into cavity of one mold three times ; ;
bevel overlapping ends for splice joint , score beveled edges .
Form clay strip into a cylinder ; ;
use slip to join scored ends .
Place cylinder on a disk of clay slightly larger than cylinder .
Score bottom edge of cylinder and join to disk with slip .
Trim away excess clay ; ;
reinforce seam with a coil of clay .
This will form the sugar bowl .
Make creamer the same .
Handle for creamer is a strip of clay 1/2'' '' wide and 3-1/2'' '' long .
To add handle , place a wooden dowel against the inside wall of creamer .
Score outside of container where handle ends will be joined .
Bend handle ; ;
press scored handle ends firmly in place using dowel to reinforce container while pressing ; ;
use slip to join .
To form spout , between two designs , dampen area slightly and gently push clay outward .
Make lid for sugar bowl the same as jar lids , omitting design disk .
Cut a notch in lid for spoon handle if desired .
Set aside to dry with lid on sugar bowl .
Vases :
Make same as salt and pepper shakers , leaving off top pieces .
Vases may be made into candles by filling with melted wax and a wick .
Napkin holder :
Cut a piece of clay for base and two for sides each about Af ( long enough for three impressions of mold ) .
Press the two sides into cavity of one mold three times .
Put cut pieces on plaster board to dry to firm leather-hard state .
Score side edges of base ; ;
join sides and base with slip and reinforce with coil .
A cardboard pattern cut to fit inside holder will help to prevent warping .
Place pattern inside holder ; ;
use three strips of clay to hold in place ( see Fig. 2 , page 71 ) .
Do not use wood as it will not shrink with the clay and would cause breakage .
Let all projects dry slowly for several days .
Clean greenware .
Bisque fire to cone 08 .
Inside of pieces was glazed with three coats of Creek-Turn bottle green antique glaze .
Outside was finished with Creek-Turn brown toner brushed on and sponged off to give antique finish .
Fired to cone 06-05 .
Changing colors
to change from one color yarn to another :
When changing from one color to another , whether working on right or wrong side , pick up the new strand from underneath dropped strand .
Photograph shows the wrong side of work with light strand being picked up under dark strand in position to be purled .
To measure work :
Spread article on flat surface to required width before measuring length at center .
Measuring armhole
to measure armhole :
Mark row on which first stitches have been bound off for armhole by drawing a contrasting colored thread through it .
Place work on a flat surface and smooth out .
Measure straight up from marked row .
See illustration .
To insert markers :
When directions read `` sl a marker on needle '' , put a small safety pin , paper clip , or commercial ring marker on needle .
In working , always slip marker from one needle to another .
To mark a row or stitch , tie contrasting thread around end of row or stitch to be marked .
Backstitching seam
to sew seams with backstitch :
Most seams are sewn with backstitch , especially on curved , slanted or loose edges .
Pin right sides of pieces together , keeping edges even and matching rows or patterns .
Thread matching yarn in tapestry needle .
Run end of yarn through several stitches along edge to secure ; ;
backstitch pieces together close to edge .
Do not draw yarn too tight .
See illustration .
To sew in sleeves :
Place sleeve seam at center underarm and center of sleeve cap at shoulder seam .
Ease in any extra fullness evenly around .
Backstitch seam .
Weaving seam
to weave seams together :
Straight vertical edges , such as those at the back seam of a sock , can be woven together invisibly .
Thread matching yarn in tapestry needle .
Hold edges together , right side up .
Hotei is 23 feet long with an 8-1/2-foot beam and every inch a family boat .
Menfolk can ride in the forward cockpit where the helmsman has a clear view .
Youngsters can sleep or amuse themselves safely in the large cabin which has 5-foot 11-inch headroom , bunks for three , galley and marine toilet .
The gals can sun themselves in the roomy aft cockpit .
All are well distributed , not crowded together near the stern .
And with passenger weight shifted forward , Hotei levels off for speed under power of a Merc 800 .
The 80-hp motor drives her at 25 mph with six aboard ! !
With only two aboard , Hotei does better than 27 mph -- and she gives a comfortable ride at this speed even in a three-foot chop .
She also banks into a turn like a fine runabout -- not digging in on the outside to throw passengers all over the boat like many a small cabin cruiser .
Nor is she a wet boat .
We've been out in five-foot waves and stayed dry .
A lot of thought went into storage space construction .
There's a large compartment in the forward cockpit for charts and other items .
The cabin has several shelves for small items and storage under the bunks for water skiis , life jackets , etc. .
The aft cockpit has a Af storage bin over six feet long that doubles as a seat .
On each side of the motor well there's storage for battery , bumpers , line and spare props with six-gallon gas tanks below .
The well itself is designed to take two Merc 800's or 500's if you wish and there's room for a 25-gallon long-cruise gas tank below it .
Needless to say , you can't build Hotei in a couple of weeks .
Our building time was slightly over 400 hours -- but the total cost for the hull with Fiberglas bottom , sink , head and hardware was under $800 .
A comparable manufactured boat would cost close to $3,000 .
Consider what you have to earn to be able to spend the $3,000 and your building time is well worth it .
A Gator trailer , Model 565 , is used to transport the boat to the waterways .
This piece of equipment costs a little over $600 but it will save you that in mooring and hauling fees in a few years .
All framing in Hotei is one-inch mahogany which , in the dressed state you buy it , is about the 13/16-inch thickness specified in the drawings .
Therefore , the lumber is bought in planks and ripped to size for battens , etc. , on a table saw .
Besides flathead bronze screws , silicon bronze Stronghold nails ( made by Independent Nail & Packing Co. , Bridgewater , Mass. ) are used extensively in assembly and Weldwood resorcinol glue is used in all the joints .
Construction follows a thorough study of the drawings .
Start by laying out the six frames and the transom on a level floor .
Draw each outline in a different-color chalk , one on top of the other .
In this way you will be able to detect any obvious mistakes .
The transom frame is made first with the joints lapped , glued and fastened with one-inch , No. 12 Stronghold nails .
After notching it for the keelson , chines and battens , the half-inch plywood transom is secured to it with glue and the same type nails .
All frames are butted at the joints and 3/8-inch plywood gussets are glued and nailed on each side of each joint , again using the one-inch , No. 12 nails .
The frames are notched only for the keelson and the chines .
If notched for the battens , they would require more work , be weakened and limber holes would have to be bored so that bilge water could flow through .
Nowhere in the boat do the frames come in contact with the plywood planking .
The jig is erected after the frames and transom are complete .
This is an important step because any misalignment would cause progressively worse misalignment in the hull as you advance in construction .
Be sure all members are parallel , vertical and level as required .
After the frames and transom are set up on the jig and temporarily braced , a piece of three-inch-wide mahogany ( only widths will be given since the 13/16-inch thickness is used throughout ) is butted between frames one and two below the line of the keelson .
The frames are glued and screwed to this piece .
The joints are also reinforced on each side with small blocks set in resin-saturated Fiberglas cloth and nailed .
It is over this piece that the laminated stem and keelson are spliced .
The keelson , made of two three-inch widths , is next installed .
The first piece is glued and screwed to the frames and transom and the piece butted between frames one and two .
The second piece is in turn glued and screwed to the first .
Note , however , that it is six inches shorter at the forward end .
One-inch , No. 10 screws are used in both cases .
A stem jig is next cut to the proper shape and temporarily fastened to frame one .
The stem is laminated from four pieces .
Take two three-inch-wide pieces and rip them down the center of the thickness to make the four .
Then spread a generous amount of glue on the four pieces and bend them into place on the jig .
The first two pieces butt against the inner member of the keelson and are glued and screwed to the brace between the first two frames .
The second two pieces lap over the inner member of the keelson and butt against the outer member .
They're glued and screwed to the inner member of the keelson .
A number of C clamps hold the pieces together on the jig until the glue sets .
All bottom battens are two inches wide .
The side ones are a half-inch narrower .
The battens are carefully fastened in place after some necessary fairing on all frames .
Glue and 1-1/2-inch , No. 10 screws are used .
Placement is important because the rear seat , bunks and front jump seats rest on or are fastened to many of the side battens .
With the exception of two battens , all run to the stem where they are glued and screwed after careful beveling .
The chines go in the same way except that they are made of two pieces of two-inch wood for strength and easier bending .
Fairing is always a tedious job but the work can be cut down considerably with a Skill planer and a simple jig .
I clamped a 30-inch piece of aluminum to the base of the planer with a pair of Sure Grips .
The aluminum , flush against the battens , acted as a fairing stick and enabled me to plane the chines and keelson to the proper bevels easily .
If you don't own a planer and don't want to buy one , it's well worth renting .
The planking is five-ply , 3/8-inch-thick Weldwood Royal Marine plywood .
This can be obtained in 42-inch widths 24 feet long .
The 42-inch width leaves very little waste .
Four pieces are used .
Plank the sides first , using glue and one-inch , No. 12 Stronghold nails at all battens , the stem and the transom .
Another person inside with a weight against each batten will help in the fastening .
The best procedure is to have a few friends hold the planking in place while you mark it off .
Then trim the excess .
I used a Homemaster Routo-Jig made by Porter Cable for this job .
It's good for cutting all the planking because it cuts with a bit-like blade at high rpm and does not chatter the plywood like a saber saw .
When cut , the planking is clamped in place for a final and careful trimming .
Then it is marked on the inside where it comes in contact with the transom , frames , keelson and all the battens .
It may then be pre-drilled for the fastenings .
The next step is to remove it and spread glue where it has been marked at the contact points .
Then it is replaced and fastened .
The bottom planking is applied in the same manner .
After planking , the bottom gets a layer of Fiberglas .
The spray rails are first glued on the outside and fastened from the inside with screws .
Then the chines are rounded off and the bottom is rough-sanded in preparation .
Since the sides are also covered up to the spray rails , they are also rough-sanded in that area .
The cloth is laid on one half of the bottom at a time .
A 50-inch width is used on each side and it laps the keel line by about three inches .
Lay the cloth in place and trim it to size .
Then remove it and give the whole bottom a coat of resin .
When the resin has hardened , mix up another batch with a pigment added if you wish .
I used bright red , mixing the pigment in thoroughly before adding the hardener .
Using a cheap brush , coat one side of the bottom with the resin and then apply the cloth .
When the cloth is smooth , apply another coat of resin , spreading it with a paint roller .
Be sure it is well saturated and then allow it to harden .
When the whole bottom has hardened , use a disk sander to feather the edges of the cloth at the keel line and near the spray rail .
Then lay a three-inch-wide strip of cloth along the keel line from the transom to the point of the stem .
Before the resin has hardened , screw a one-inch mahogany keel strip along the centerline .
This protects the bottom in beaching .
Fiberglas materials are available from Glass Plastic Supply Co. , 1605 W. Elizabeth Ave. , Linden , N. J. .
They will also supply literature on application .
The hull is now turned over ( with the help of about seven friends ) and placed in a level , well-braced position .
I set it on the Gator trailer .
I laid three layers of glass cloth on the inside of the stem , also installing a bow eye at this time .
For added strength , I also fastened a small block on each side of every frame and batten joint .
Again , these blocks were set in resin-saturated glass cloth and nailed .
After trimming off the excess on the frames and transom which was used to fasten them to the jig at a working height , the top of the side planking is installed .
This is made up of scraps left over from the sides and bottom .
These flaring parts really help to keep the boat dry .
When they're on , the top edges are planed even with the sheer batten .
The sides of the motor well run from the bottom battens to the top and from frame six to the transom , forming a real strong transom brace .
Note another piece of wood six inches wide is fastened to the transom between these pieces .
The decking is quarter-inch mahogany marine plywood .
All the flooring and the storage bin is half-inch exterior fir plywood .
Most floor battens are glued and screwed to the flooring .
The exception is where the flooring butts .
These battens are glued and screwed to the frames .
With all deck battens in place , the bilge is cleaned and painted up to the floor line .
Use one coat of Firzite and one coat of marine paint .
Bottoms of the floorboards are also painted and the flooring is then screwed in place .
After the decking is on , the cabin sides are installed .
They're followed by the front and rear bulkheads as illustrated .
The windshield glass is shatterproof and Plexiglas is used in the cabin .
Inside , bunks are framed up and installed as indicated .
A head is a handy thing to have and I installed one under a removable section of the port bunk .
The sink in the hinged panel above the bunk drains into the head and a five-gallon water tank is mounted on the bulkhead above the sink .
For padding the seats and bunks , I used Ensolite , Type Aj .
Lightweight , non-absorbent , fire resistant and dimensionally stable , it is easily bonded to the wood with contact cement .
Available in Af sheets , it costs about a dollar a square foot .
You can build this vacation cottage yourself .
It is a full scale , small , but efficient house that can become a year 'round retreat complete in every detail .
Because of the unique design by the architect Egils Hermanovski , you can build most of it in your own home workshop in your spare time .
Most of it is panelized and utilizes standard materials , and requires the use of only simple tools .
On the following pages and in the following issues we take you every step of the way to your vacation cottage , from choosing the proper site to applying the final trim .
In recognition of the growing trend for second homes , or vacation cottages , we have designed this one specifically with the family handyman in mind .
It is a big project , not to be taken lightly .
But each step has been broken down into easy stages , utilizing standard materials and simple tools , well within the capabilities of the handyman .
The theory
The idea behind our design is modular units , or panelization .
Everything possible has been scaled to standard sizes and measurements of materials .
Wall panels and structural timbers are standard as are windows and doors , making for a minimum of cutting .
We have developed an ingenious method of interlocking these so that you can make the major part of your house in your own workshop , panel by panel , according to plan .
Thus , when you have prepared your foundation and laid the floor , these can be trucked to the site and erected with a small crew of friends in a weekend .
The roof timbers are precut and the panels standard so that the house can be completely enclosed in a matter of three or four days .
Then you can do the finishing touches at your leisure .
A warning
Due to the fact that building codes and regulations vary so much throughout the country , the first thing to do is to find out what , if any , they are .
Close to a large city they might even specify the size of the nails used ; ;
in a remote section there might be no restrictions at all .
This can usually be found out at the nearest town hall .
At the same time check the electrical , plumbing , and sanitary requirements , as well as possible zoning regulations .
Whether electricity and public water and sewers are available or not , check the local customs in the use of bottled or L-P gas ( we give you alternatives later on ) .
Be sure that this information is reasonably official and not just an unfounded opinion .
If there are any major restrictions , they usually can be obtained in printed form .
Where a building permit is required , find out what you must present when applying for one .
In many cases , you must file a complete set of plans with the local building inspector .
These will be available at cost from our Plans Department .
The site
Some general things to look for in a site , if you haven't already bought one , are accessibility , water drainage , and orientation .
How are the roads , and how will they stand up ? ?
Is there evidence of wash-outs on the property ; ;
swampy areas or intermittent springs ? ?
A visit in the early spring after a thaw will be very informative .
Note where the sun rises and sets , and ask which direction the prevailing winds and storms come from .
Will the view be something you can live with ? ?
Don't worry too much about rocky or sloping terrain ; ;
we will take up alternative foundations later on .
The materials
With this first issue we give you a list of the materials needed to build the basic ( AjA version ) and the expandable ( AjB version ) .
This will be for the shell of the house only ( roof , walls , and floor ) , and does not include the carport or balcony .
This will permit you to get a rough estimate of how much the materials for the shell will cost .
Bear in mind that this does not include interior panels for partitions , fancy flooring , appliances and fixtures , electrical wiring , and plumbing , all of which will be taken up in detail in later issues .
The wall panels are constructed of a framework of standard Af and Af of a good grade , free from structural faults .
They should be as straight as possible , as this will effect their ability to mesh properly when the walls are erected .
The outside surface of the solid units shall be of an exterior grade of panel board such as plywood , plastic coated panel board , high density particle board , asbestos-cement board , or any other product locally obtainable upon recommendation of your building supply dealer .
The inner panels do not have to be weatherproof , and the choice will depend on the quality of finish desired .
All panel board comes in standard Af foot size .
It is recommended that panels be both glued as well as nailed to the frame .
The fixed window panels with louvers should have a good grade of 1/8-inch double-strength glass set in a mastic glazing compound .
The louvers are constructed as shown in the detail , with a drop door for ventilation .
There are standard sliding glass windows in wood or aluminum frames for those panels requiring them .
The door panels are designed to accommodate standard doors which should be of exterior grade .
The filler panels for the gable ends are cut from full Af sheets as shown , leaving no wastage .
The battens covering the joints are of Af stock and are applied after the walls are erected .
All nails should be rustproof , and aluminum is highly recommended .
Note : If 1/2-inch panel board is used inside and out , or 5/8-inch one side and 3/8-inch the other , and 1/8-inch glass is used , stock lumber in Af , Af , and Af can be used in making the glass panels .
Other thicknesses may necessitate ripping a special size lumber for the glass trim .
In any case , there is no special milling or rabbeting required for the panels .
With modern techniques of woodworking and the multitude of cutting tools , fixtures , and attachments available , the drill press has become a basic home workshop tool .
The drill press consists of a vertical shaft ( spindle ) which is tapered or threaded on one end to hold a drill chuck , a tubular housing ( quill ) in which the spindle is mounted , a head in which the quill is mounted , a feed lever which moves the quill up or down , a power source , and a movable table upon which the work is placed .
There is often a means of locking the quill and , on larger presses , the table can be tilted .
The size of the press is usually expressed in terms of chuck capacity ( the maximum diameter tool shank it will hold ) or distance between the spindle center and the column .
A press with an 11 inch capacity lets you drill to the center of a 22 inch board or circle .
A new radial drill press with a 16 inch capacity has a tilting head that allows drilling to be done at any angle .
The head is mounted on a horizontal arm that swivels on the supporting column to position the drill bit instead of the work .
Set-up and maintenance
The drill press should be leveled and , depending on whether it is a bench or floor model , bolted securely to a sturdy bench or stand or screwed to the floor with lag or expansion screws .
This will reduce vibration and increase accuracy .
A coat of paste wax or a rubdown with a piece of wax paper will protect the polished surface of the table ; ;
wiping with a slightly oiled cloth will discourage rusting of the column and quill .
Presses not fitted with sealed spindle bearings will need a drop of oil now and then in the lubrication holes in the quill .
The rest of the press should be kept clean by dusting with a clean rag or brush .
Be careful to keep the drive belt free of oil and grease .
Belt tension is adjusted by manipulation of two locking bolts and a movable motor mount .
Keep the belt just tight enough so the pulleys won't slip when pulled by hand ; ;
excess tension will only cause undue wear on the motor and spindle bearings .
Most drill presses have a quill return spring that raises the spindle automatically when the feed lever is released and holds the quill in the raised position .
The return spring tension may be adjusted to suit individual requirements by gripping the spring housing with a pair of pliers ( to prevent the spring from unwinding when it is released ) , loosening the lock nut or screw , and rotating the housing until the desired tension is achieved .
Turning the housing clockwise will reduce tension , counter-clockwise will increase it .
Don't lose the chuck key
.
Some manufacturers have had the foresight to provide a socket for the chuck key ; ;
otherwise , you'll have to spend a few minutes to either attach a suitable spring clip somewhere on the press head or fit the key to a length of light chain and fasten to the bottom of the motor mount so that the key is out of the way when not in use .
Feeds and speeds
Drill speeds are important if you want a good job .
Each cutting tool will operate best at a given speed , depending on the material worked .
On most drill presses , it is impossible to get the exact speed , but you can come close by adjusting the drive belt on the step-cone pulleys .
You will find a chart giving the various speed ratios available with your particular drill press somewhere in the instruction booklet that came with the tool .
See the table on page 34 for exact recommended speeds .
Generally , the larger the tool and the harder the material , the slower the speed .
Feed pressure is also of major importance .
Too much pressure will force the tool beyond its cutting capacity and result in rough cuts and jammed or broken tools .
Too light a feed , particularly with metal or other hard material , causes overheating of the tool and burning of the cutting edge .
The best results will be obtained by matching the correct speed with a steady feed pressure that lets the tool cut easily at an even rate .
Common drilling tools
There are numerous types and styles of tools to drill holes .
The most common are the twist drill , the solid center shaft with interchangeable cutting blades , the double spur bit , and the power wood bit .
All will do a good job if sharp , but the twist drills don't cut quite as smoothly as the others , since they do not have the outlining spurs that sever the fibers before actual boring starts .
The adjustable fly cutter is very useful for cutting large diameter holes and can be used to cut exact-size discs by reversing the cutter blade .
Since fly cutters are one sided and not balanced , they should be used at the slowest speed available , and fed very slowly to avoid binding .
Fly cutters can fool you into putting your hand too close to the tool , so if you want to avoid nicked fingers , keep your hands well out of the way .
Simple hole drilling operations
When drilling all the way through a workpiece , always place a piece of scrap wood underneath .
This will not only protect the work table , but also assure a clean breakthrough .
Another method of assuring a clean hole is to first drill a small pilot hole all the way through , then drill half way with the dimensional bit , turn the piece over , and finish from the other side .
In soft woods with pronounced grain , there is sometimes a tendency for the hole to wander , due to the varying hardness of the wood .
In this case , drilling a small pilot hole or clamping the work will do much to improve accuracy .
When a hole is to be bored to a predetermined depth , mark the depth on the side of the stock , then run the bit down so that it is even with the mark .
The depth gauge rod can now be set , and any number of holes bored to exact and identical depth .
The old-time bridges over the Merrimac River in Massachusetts are of unusual interest in many respects .
For their length , their types of construction , their picturesque settings , and their literary associations , they should be known and remembered .
In this sequence I shall write about them in the order of their erection .
The first bridge known to have been covered wholly or in part , -- and perhaps the most interesting one , connected Newbury ( now Newburyport ) with Salisbury Point .
Its building was first proposed in 1791 , when a group of citizens , mostly Newburyport men , petitioned the General Court for an act of incorporation .
This document began : `` No. 1 Newbury Port , may 30th , 1791
`` Whereas , a Bridge over Merrimack River , from the Land of Hon'ble Jonathan Greenleaf , Esquire , in Newbery , to Deer Island , and from said Island to Salisbury , would be of very extensive utility , by affording a safe Conveyance to Carriages , Teams and Travellers at all seasons of the year , and at all Times of Tide .
`` We , the Subscribers , do agree , that as soon as a convenient Number of Persons have subscribed to this , or a similar Writing , We will present a petition to the Hon'ble General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts , praying for an Act incorporating into a Body politic the subscribers to such Writing with Liberty to build such a Bridge , and a Right to demand a Toll equal to that received at Malden Bridge , and on like Terms , and if such an Act shall be obtained , then we severally agree each with the others , that we will hold in the said Bridge the several shares set against our respective Names , the whole into two hundred shares being divided , and that we will pay such sums of Money at such Times and in such Manners , as by the said proposed Corporation , shall be directed and required '' .
This paper was signed by forty-five persons , subscribing a total of two hundred shares .
A month later the General Court served notice to the town of Newbury that the bridge was to be built .
The matter was considered and reconsidered , and finally opposed , but in spite of many objections , the Court granted a charter on January 9 , 1792 .
On November 26 of that year the bridge was completed and opened .
Timothy Palmer , who invented and later patented the arch type of construction for wooden bridges , was the genius who planned and supervised the building of the Essex , or `` Deer Island '' bridge although the actual work was carried out under the direction of William Coombs , who received $300 as recompense .
This two-part bridge is best described by Rev. Timothy Dwight , president of Yale College , in his `` Travels In New-England And New-York '' , published in New Haven in 1821 .
He says of it :
`` It consists of two divisions , separated by an island at a small distance from the southern shore .
The division between the island and this shore , consists principally of an arch ; ;
whose chord is one hundred and sixty feet , and whose vortex is forty feet ( it was actually 37 feet ) above the high-water mark .
In appearance and construction it resembles the Pascataqua bridge .
The whole length of Essex bridge is one thousand and thirty feet and its breadth thirty-four .
I have already mentioned that Mr. Timothy Palmer of Newburyport was the inventor of the arched bridges in this country .
As Mr. Palmer was educated to house-building only , and had never seen a structure of this nature ; ;
he certainly deserves not a little credit for the invention '' .
It is hardly necessary to remind students of covered bridges that Timothy Palmer was born in 1751 in nearby Rowley ; ;
that he moved with his parents to West Boxford when he was sixteen years old ; ;
and was there apprenticed to a builder and architect , Moody Spofford .
It was indeed a remarkable feat that a man who had had no experience of bridge building should have applied the principle of the arch , which appears in his famous bridges at Portsmouth , Haverhill , and Philadelphia .
The Essex Merrimack Bridge when first built was not covered .
As far as we know , no American bridge had been thus protected in 1792 .
Richard S. Allen is the authority for the statement that the northern section was probably roofed by 1810 .
Its original appearance is shown in an engraving published in the `` Massachusetts Magazine '' in May 1793 , which is reproduced herewith ( Fig. 1 ) .
A brief description accompanying the picture says that the bridge contained more than 6000 tons of timber .
Between the abutments on the Newbury shore and the south bank of Deer Island there was one span or arch measuring 160 feet ; ;
between the north shore of Deer Island and the Salisbury side there was an arch of 113 feet and a series of piers with a draw forty feet long .
A dinner and celebration in honor of this piece of engineering took place July 4 , 1793 , in a tavern erected by the corporation on the island .
It is said that the eccentric Timothy Dexter , who was one of the first share-holders , stood on the table and made a speech worthy of the occasion .
The `` Essex Journal '' says that he `` delivered an oration on the bridge , which for elegance of style , propriety of speech or force of argument , was truly Ciceronian '' .
The reporter must have written this with tongue in cheek , because Dexter's oration could hardly be understood ; ;
and , although he later explained that he was talking French , it seems rather more likely that he had succumbed to the joys of the evening .
The north portion of the Essex bridge was well worth the cost of construction , although it proved to be twice what was estimated in the beginning .
It stood in its original form until 1882 .
The southern half , however , on account of its underbracing , was considered by boat owners a menace to navigation .
In 1810 it was torn down and replaced by a chain suspension bridge .
This was built by John Templeman from plans submitted by James Finley of Fayette County , Pennsylvania .
Timothy Palmer had general supervision of the work .
An advertisement in the `` Newburyport Herald '' , December 21 , 1810 , shows Palmer in a new light as an expert on chain bridges .
It reads : `` chain bridges
`` .
Information is hereby given that Mr. Timothy Palmer of Newburyport , Mass. has agreed to take charge of the concerns of the Patentees of the Chain Bridge , in the states of Massachusetts , New Hampshire , Vermont , Rhode Island , and Connecticut , so far as relates to the sale of Patent rights and the construction of Chain Bridges .
`` Mr. Palmer will attend to any applications relating to bridges and if desired will view the proposed site , and lay out and superintend the work , or recommend a suitable person to execute it .
John Templeman
`` Approved , Timothy Palmer ''
.
This chain bridge proved less durable than the wooden arch on the Salisbury end .
It fell , February 6 , 1827 , carrying with it a horse and wagon , two men and four oxen .
The horse and men were saved , but the oxen drowned .
In spite of this catastrophe , the bridge was rebuilt on the same plan and opened again on July 17 , 1827 .
This second chain bridge was 570 feet long , had two thirty-foot towers and a draw , and a double roadway .
The Essex bridge was a toll crossing until 1868 , when the County Commissioners laid out all the Merrimack bridges as highways .
Sturdy and strong after more than a century of continuous use , the old covered , wooden bridge that spans the Tygartis Valley River at Philippi will have a distinctive part in the week-long observance of the first land battle of the Civil War at its home site , May 28th to June 3rd .
Colonel Frederick W. Lander , impersonated , will again make his break-neck ride down the steep declivity of Talbott's ( now College ) Hill and thunder across the bridge to join Colonel Benjamin F. Kelley's ( West ) Virginia Infantry , then swarming through the streets in pursuit of the retreating Confederates .
He was closely followed by the Ohio and Indiana troops -- thus the old bridge has another distinction ; ;
that of being the first such structure secured by force of arms in the war of the '60s .
The bridge has survived the natural hazards of the elements , war , fire , and floods , as well as injuries incident to heavy traffic , for more than a hundred years .
Twice during the Civil War it was saved from destruction by the opposing armies by the pleas and prayers of a local minister .
It still stands as a monument to the engineering skills of the last century and still serves in the gasoline age to carry heavy traffic on U.S. Route 250 -- the old Beverly and Fairmont Turnpike .
It is one of the very few , if not the only surviving bridge of its type to serve a main artery of the U.S. highway system , thus it is far more than a relic of the horse and buggy days .
This covered , wooden bridge is so closely identified with the first action in the early morning of June 3 , 1861 , and with subsequent troop movements of both armies in the Philippi area that it has become a part and parcel of the war story .
So frequently have pictures of the bridge appeared in books and in national publications that it vies with the old John Brown Fort at Harpers Ferry as the two nationally best known structures in West Virginia .
Completed and opened for traffic in 1852 , the bridge was designed and built by Lemuel Chenoweth and his brother , Eli , of Beverly .
The Chenoweth brothers were experienced bridge builders , and against the competition of other , and better known , bridge designers and builders they had constructed nine of the covered , wooden bridges on the Parkersburg and Staunton Turnpike a dozen years before , as well as many other bridges for several counties .
The Philippi bridge , however , was the Chenoweth master piece , with its 139-foot , dual lane , span -- and it stands today as a monument to its builders .
Never rebuilt , the bridge was strengtened in 1938 by two extra piers , a concrete floor , and a walk-way along the upper side in order to care for modern traffic .
During the war it was in constant use by the wagon trains transporting supplies from the railhead at Grafton to the troops operating in the interior .
Union soldiers at times used it for sleeping quarters to escape from the rain or other inclement weather , and some of them left momentoes of their stay by carving their names and small tokens on its walls and beams .
But what the elements could not do was seriously threatened when Brigadier General William E. ( Grumble ) Jones reached Philippi while on the famous Jones-Imboden raid in May , 1863 .
General Jones was fresh from a long series of bridge burnings , including the long bridge at Fairmont , and , after seeing a great drove of horses and cattle he had collected safely across the bridge , he sent his men to work piling combustibles in and around it .
Reverend Joshual Corder , a Baptist minister , gathered a few citizens of Southern sympathies , to call on Jones and plead with him to spare the structure ; ;
he reasoned and argued , pointing out that Jones or other Confederate commanders would need it should troops pass that way in retreat .
Jones relented , he did not order his men to apply the torch -- the drove of livestock was driven up the valley , via Beverly , and across the mountains to feed and serve the Confederate army , while Jones and his raiders turned toward Buckhannon to join forces with Imboden .
Again Reverend Corder saved the bridge when Union soldiers planned to destroy it , after filling its two lanes with hay and straw -- but for what reason is not recorded nor remembered , certainly not because of pressure from an opposing Confederate force .
On the second occasion it took prayers as well as reason to dissuade the soldiers from their purpose .
Centering around this historic old structure , a group of public-spirited Barbour County citizens have organized and planned a week-long series of events , beginning on May 28th and continuing through June 3rd , to observe most appropriately the centennial of the first land engagement of the Civil War at Philippi .
It is a good eight years now since each of us acquired a swimming pool -- eight enlightening , vigorous , rigorous , not wholly unrewarding years .
We have learned a lot -- a dash of hydrochemistry here , a bit about plumbing and pump-priming there .
We have had sound grounding in the principles of the mailed-fist-in-velvet-glove school of diplomacy .
We have become amateur insurance experts and fine-feathered yard birds .
True , our problems have lessened a bit as more and more of our neighbors have built their own pools , thereby diluting our spectacular attractions .
But problems cling to pools , as any pool owner knows .
So our innate generosity of spirit prompts us to share our trials , errors and solutions with any who are taking the pool plunge for the first time -- in the pious hope that some may profit from our experience .
Where to put it
Position may not be everything , but in the case of a pool it can certainly contribute difficulties , social and/or physical .
We speak from varying viewpoints .
One of us has a pool set in a wooded area very near the house .
The other has his pool far away from the house in a field high on a hill .
If you are dreaming of a blue , shimmering pool right outside your living room windows , close your eyes firmly and fill in the picture with lots and lots of children , damp towels , squashed tubes of suntan oil and semi-inflated plastic toys .
You are likely to be nearer the truth .
You can also see that the greater the proximity of the pool to your main living quarters , the greater the chance for violation of family privacy , annoying noise and the let's-make-your-house-our-club attitude .
On the other hand , out-of-sight does not lead to out-of-mind when children cannot be easily observed and you have to make a long trek to reach the pool .
Another dilemma : As picturesque as a sylvan pond in the forest may be , trees offer a leaf and root hazard to the well-being of a pool .
Yet a grassy approach can turn a pool into a floating lawn every time the grass is mowed .
As in choosing a wife , it is only sensible to consider also how appealing a pool is likely to be in bad weather as well as in good .
In the colder climes , for instance , you will have to live through the many unglamorous winter months when your pool will hardly look its best .
It may be a big hole in the ground filled with salt hay , or an ice floe studded with logs .
Even a neat , plastic-covered plunge is not exactly a joy to behold .
( We do , however , recommend those patented covers to prevent both people and junk -- flora and fauna generally -- from accidentally wintering in the pool .
)
Probably no location for a pool is perfect on all counts .
Naturally it will be dictated to a large extent by the shape and size of your land .
But if space and money are no problem and small children are not on hand every day , it is certainly more restful to have your pool and entertainment area removed from the immediate environs of the house .
And a good several feet around the pool should be neither greensward nor woods , but good hard pavement .
The placement of your pool , however , will not of itself solve the two major problems of pool owning -- those that involve your social life and those pertaining to safety .
Coping with them demands stern discipline -- of yourself as well as of your family , neighbors , friends and anyone you ever talked to on a transoceanic jet .
Eight years ago while we were going through the mud-sweat-and-tears construction period , we were each solaced by the vision of early morning dips and evening home-comings to a cool family collected around the pool with a buffet table laid out nearby for the lord and master's delectation .
But not even our first pool-side gatherings came anywhere near those rosy fantasies .
We seemed to be witnessing the population explosion right in our own backyards .
Our respective families looked as if they had quadrupled .
Had we taken a lien on a state park ? ?
Not at all .
We had merely been discovered by the pool sharks .
We were in business ! !
From proud pool-owners to perpetual hosts and handymen was a short step -- no more than the change from city clothes to trunks .
Naive of us , maybe , but the results of our impulsive invitations to `` come over next summer and swim in our new pool '' were both unexpected and unsettling .
Our book of etiquette
After the first few weeks , it was obvious that rules had to be made , laid down and obeyed -- even if our popularity ratings became subnormal as a result .
So rules we made , in unabashed collusion .
Since our viewpoints in this respect coincided precisely , we present the fruits of our efforts herewith as a single social code for pool owners .
First and foremost : No one -- no , not anyone -- in the family is allowed to issue blanket invitations to his or her own circle .
Just short of forty lashes we finally managed to coerce our children to this view .
Their friends and ours are welcome to share the pool , but on our terms and at our times .
No friends are to arrive without an invitation or without at least telephoning beforehand .
No ringers , either -- even if they are trailing legitimate invitees .
We want to know when the Potlatches telephone exactly how many they are planning to bring , so that we won't end up with a splashing mob that looks like Coney Island in August .
No young children may come without adults except for a specific , organized , chaperoned party .
And accompanying adults are urged to keep an alert and sensible eye on their responsibilities .
A gaggle of gabbling mothers , backs to the pool , is no safeguard .
No bottle pool is tolerated -- bottle pool being our lingo for those who come to swim and sink into our bar while protesting that they can only dunk and run .
( Sanity , solvency and relations with our wine merchant took a beating that first summer as we inadvertently became the neighborhood free-drink stop .
)
We designated one day a week as the time when neighborhood teen-agers might swim at definite hours .
This has saved us from constant requests seven days a week and made us feel less brutal to the young `` less fortunate '' than ours .
We also worked out logistics for Sunday afternoon swimmers who arrive two hours early with their weekend guests while we are still enjoying an alfresco lunch en famille .
We gently usher them to an island of tables and chairs strategically placed on the far side of the pool where they can amuse each other until we get ready to merge sides .
All dressing ( undressing to be more exact ) must be done in our small bath house or at the swimmers' homes .
( To avoid any possible excuse for a dripping parade through your house , it is a good idea to have a telephone extension near the pool as well as a direct outdoor route between the pool , and the parking area .
) We do , however , provide a limited number of extra suits , mainly for children , and we stock extra towels and a few inexpensive bathing conveniences .
Life-preservers , the buckle-on kapok-filled kind , are held in readiness , too , for the very young .
Preserving life and limb
Safety rules , of course , are more important than all the others put together .
In many localities , now , the law requires all pools to be fenced , usually to a minimum height of 5 feet .
But fenced or unfenced , no pool-side is the place for running or horseplay .
We allow no underwater endurance contests , either , or inexpert versions of water polo .
Diving boards must have non-skid surfaces ( coco matting takes an awful beating from chlorine and rots quickly , but grit-impregnated paints are excellent ) .
And divers must be enjoined to look before they leap , either on top of someone else or onto a pool edge .
Our pools also have wide , shallow steps -- for the benefit of the littlest swimmers who can thus be introduced to the water with far greater safety than a ladder affords .
All bottles must be kept a safe distance away from the pool and drinking glasses are banned in favor of plastic or metal cups .
When you first acquire a pool , we earnestly recommend -- for your own mental health -- a good long chat with your insurance agent .
You should be prepared to cope with any pitfall such as plunges into empty pools or shallow ends and all manner of winter as well as summer lawsuits .
Soignee pools , alas , do not just happen .
They are the result of a constant and careful contest with the elements .
Unless you want to make your wife a pool widow and to spend a great many of your leisure hours nursing your pool's pristine purity , its care and feeding -- from pH content to filtering and vacuuming -- is best left to a weekly or bi-monthly professional service .
Of course , if your pool is close to the house , your wife can always add it to her housekeeping chores ( you hope ) .
Or you can make pool care the price of swimming for teen-agers .
Even so , every pool owner , in case of emergency , should have some idea of what makes things work .
A brief course in hydraulics from the pool builders may well be appreciated in a future crisis .
Preserving the pool
A sudden high rise in temperature will turn your pool poison green overnight .
You need more chlorine .
The walls feel slippery .
You need algaecide .
With or without professional help , you will have to be able to do some of these jobs yourself unless you have a full-time pool nurse .
You should see to it that the trap , the dirt-catcher in front of the filter , is always clean .
A pool is no place for a shut trap .
You should firmly insist that no bobby pins or hair pins be worn in the water .
When shed , they leave rust marks .
You can hope against hope that come spring cleaning , your fair-weather friends will lend a hand at scrubbing and furbishing .
It has happened .
Many hours of spring cleaning will be saved , however , if you remove the main drain grate when you close the pool season in the fall .
As the pool is emptied , stand by to brush down the walls and bottom while they are still wet .
Much of the dirt and leaf stain is easily removed when damp , but requires dynamite if allowed to dry .
If you have a 6- to 8-inch drain pipe , you may easily wash out all the debris when the grate is out .
Of course , when your 6-inch torrent of water is released , it may cause a lot of comment as it passes through or by neighboring properties .
Do not forget this possibility .
If your pool is located on or near sloping ground , it may have natural drainage which is certainly more desirable than to be faced with the annual expense and labor of first pumping out the water and then scooping out all the debris .
It may be true that pool lighting dramatizes an evening scene , but lights also attract all the insect life for miles around .
Once on the water , these little visitors seldom leave , and this adds to your filtering and vacuuming problems as well as providing a slapping good time for all those present .
Often one floodlight high in a tree will provide all the light you need at much less expense .
Our experience has taught us that it pays to buy the best equipment possible , from pipes to brushes .
Follow pool-care instructions to the letter , and be sure that one person ( in the family or not ) is regularly responsible for each aspect of the job , with no chance for claiming , `` It wasn't my turn '' .
Never let anyone not in the know take a turn at the valves -- even if the little boys do want to play space ship .
You may find yourself hitting bottom , literally , as you discover that water is running out even while you are putting it in .
Draw a line across the country at the latitude of lower Pennsylvania .
Any house built now below that line without air conditioning will be obsolete in 10 years .
Fortunately , it is the FHA which has arrived at this conclusion , for it means that cooling equipment of all kinds may now be included in a mortgage , and thus acquired with a minimum of financial stress .
Even if you live above that line , the FHA will back you , for they have decided that the inclusion of air conditioning in all new homes is a good thing and should be encouraged .
New simplified packaged units , recently devised prefabricated glass-fiber ducts , and improved add-on techniques make it possible to acquire a system for an 1800-square-foot house for as little as $600 to $900 .
Two men can often do the installation in a day .
You can install it yourself -- this is a central system that will cool every part of your house .
Its upkeep ? ?
No less an authority than the FHA concurs that the savings air conditioning makes possible more than offset its operating costs .
Is it worth-while ? ?
Home air conditioning has come a long way from the early days of overcooled theaters and the thermal shock they inflicted .
We know now that a 15-degree differential in temperature is the maximum usually desirable , and accurate controls assure the comfort we want .
We know , too , that health is never harmed by summer cooling .
On the contrary , there are fewer colds and smaller doctor bills .
The filtered air benefits allergies , asthma , sinus , hay fever .
Control of temperature and humidity is a godsend to the aged and the invalid .
Heart conditions and high blood pressure escape the stresses brought on by oppressive heat .
Housekeeping is easier .
The cleaner air means less time spent pushing a vacuum , fewer trips to the dry cleaners , lighter loads for the washing machine .
The need for reupholstering , redecorating , repainting becomes more infrequent .
Clothes hold their shape better , and mildew and rust become almost forgotten words .
It will improve your disposition .
When you're less fatigued , things just naturally look brighter .
The children can have their daytime naps and hot meals , and be put to bed on schedule in shade-darkened rooms .
You'll sleep longer and better , too , awake refreshed and free of hot weather nerves .
You can forget about screens , and leave the storm windows up all year around .
Best of all , central air conditioning is something you can afford .
Like its long-lived cousin , the refrigerator , a conditioner can be expected to last 20 to 25 years or more .
That brings its per-year cost down mighty low .
For any house .
No matter what style your home is , ranch , two-story , Colonial or contemporary , central air conditioning is easily installed .
The equipment won't take up valuable space either .
It can go in out-of-the-way waste space .
But there's no denying that the easiest and most economical way to get year-'round whole-house air conditioning is when you build .
If that's done , the house can be designed and oriented for best operation , and this can mean savings both in the size of equipment and in the cost of the house itself .
If you can't see your way clear to have summer cooling included when building , by all means make provision for its easy adding later .
Manufacturers have designed equipment for just such circumstances , and your savings over starting from scratch will be substantial .
If your house is to have a forced warm air system , cooling can be a part of it .
This costs less than having a completely separate cooling system , for your regular heating ductwork , filters and furnace blower do double duty for cooling .
You can get year-'round air conditioners in the same variety of styles in which you buy a furnace alone -- high or low boy , horizontal or counterflow .
The units can be installed in basement , attic , crawlspace , or in a closet located in the living area .
The cooling coil is located in the furnace's outlet .
From the coil small copper pipes connect to a weatherproof refrigeration section set in the yard , garage , carport , or basement .
If you plan to add cooling later to your heating system , there are things to watch for .
Be sure ducts that require insulation get it when they are installed .
They may be inaccessible later .
Be sure your ducts and blower are big enough to handle cooling .
This is especially important if you live in a mild-winter zone .
Be sure you get a perimeter heating system , and diffusers that will work as well for cooling as they do for heating .
You can get a hot water system that will also work for cooling your house .
For cooling , chilled water is circulated instead of hot water .
Instead of radiators you'll have cooling-heating units , each with its own thermostat .
These systems are more expensive than year-'round forced air systems .
The minimum cost for an average one-story , 7-room house with basement , is likely to run $1500 above the cost of the heating alone .
Separate systems .
If the problems of combining cooling with your heating are knotty , it may be cheaper to plan on a completely separate cooling system .
The simplest kind of separate system uses a single , self-contained unit .
It is , in effect , an oversize room conditioner equipped with prefab glass-fiber ducts to distribute the cooled , cleaned , dehumidified air where it is wanted .
In a long , rambling ranch , two such units can be installed , one serving the living area , the other the sleeping zone .
In a two-story house , one unit may be installed in the basement to serve the first floor , another in the attic to cool the second .
In each case , having separate systems for living and sleeping areas has the advantage of permitting individual zone control .
The heat pump .
One of the more remarkable of the new cooling systems is one that can be switched to heating .
As you know , a conditioner makes indoor air cool by pumping the heat out of it and then releasing this heat outdoors .
A relatively simple switching arrangement reverses the cycle so that the machine literally runs backward , and the heat is extracted from outdoor air and turned indoors .
Up until recently , this heat pump method of warming air was efficient only in areas of mild winters and when outside temperatures were above 40 degrees .
Now , the machine has been improved to a point where it is generally more economical than oil heat at temperatures down to 15 degrees .
You can get this added heating feature for as little as $200 more than the price of cooling alone .
Consider it as a standby setup , at negligible cost , for those emergencies when the furnace quits , a blizzard holds up fuel delivery , or for cool summer mornings or evenings when you don't want to start up your whole heating plant .
What size conditioner ? ?
How large a cooling unit you need , and the method of its installation , depends on a variety of factors .
Among other things , besides the nature of your house and how much heat finds its way into its various rooms from the outside , it will depend upon your personal habits and the makeup of your family .
Families with children usually don't want the house quite so cool .
If you are a party thrower , you may need added capacity .
The body is a heat machine , and 20 to 25 guests can easily double your cooling load .
Cooling requirements are best expressed in terms of Aj .
A BTU is a unit of heat , and the BTU rating of a conditioner refers to how much heat your machine can pump out of your house in an hour .
A very rough rule of thumb is that , under favorable conditions , you'll need 15 BTU's of cooling for every square foot of your house .
This is if outdoor temperatures have a high average of 95 degrees .
You'll need more if the high average is above that , less if it's below .
Coolers are also rated by tons .
A ton of cooling compares to the cooling you get by melting a ton of ice .
By accepted definition , a 1-ton conditioner will provide 12,000 BTU of cooling in one hour .
You may find a conditioner rated by horsepower .
It is generally an inaccurate method of rating , for the horsepower is that of the compressor motor , and many other components beside it determine how much cooling you'll get .
A 1-hp conditioner , for example , may vary in effectiveness from under 8,000 BTU to well over 10,000 Aj .
The safest procedure is to let your builder estimate the size of the unit you need , rather than trying to do this yourself .
Don't urge your builder to give you a little extra cooling capacity just to be sure you have enough .
Better to have your equipment slightly undersized than too big .
Here's why :
Reducing humidity is often as important as cooling .
An oversize unit will cool off your house quickly , then shut down for a long period .
Before it cycles on again , humidity can build up and make you uncomfortable even though the temperature is still low .
With a unit of the right size , a compressor will run continuously during hot weather , reducing humidity as evenly as it does temperature .
Money-saving tips .
Attention to details can cut in half the size unit you need and pare operating expense proportionately .
A well-designed , 1200-square-foot house can be comfortably cooled and heated for as little as $128 a year , or $11 a month .
If you have a house which heat doesn't penetrate easily , your unit will have less heat to remove .
Keep the direct sun from reaching the house and you've won the first battle .
In a new house , generous roof overhangs are a logical and effective solution .
If the house you plan to buy or build won't have big overhangs , you can still do a fair job of keeping the sun off walls and windows with properly designed trellises , fences and awnings .
Shade trees , too , are a big help , so keep them if you can .
Drawn blinds and draperies do some good , but not nearly as much as shading devices on the outside of the house .
The more directly the sun strikes walls and roof , the greater its heat impact .
The way a house is set on its lot can therefore influence how much cooling you're going to need .
A shift in the walls , or a change in the roof slope , so the sun hits them more obliquely , can save you money .
You can use heat-absorbing glass to stop the sun , double glass and insulated glass to combat condensation .
Restrict large glass areas to the north and south sides of the house .
They're easier to shade there .
An attic space above insulation makes a house easier to cool .
You'll even gain by putting your water heater outside the conditioned space , and using an electric range instead of a gas one .
Gas adds to the moisture load .
Insulate , weatherstrip , double-glaze to the maximum .
In insulation , the numbers to remember are 6-4-2 .
They stand for 6 inches of mineral wool insulation in the ceiling , 4 inches in the side walls , 2 inches in the floors .
Such extra-thick insulation not only permits a much smaller cooling installation , but will continue to reduce operating expenses both in heating and cooling .
A light-colored roof will reduce sun heat by 50 per cent .
It costs two to three times as much to remove a BTU in summer as it does to add one in winter , so every solitary BTU is worth attention .
You'll foil them in droves , along with their pal humidity , by having and using a kitchen range exhaust fan , a bathroom ventilator for when you shower , and an outside vent for the clothes drier .
Keeping conditioners quiet .
It's no use pretending that all conditioners are quiet , but the noise they produce can be kept to a minimum .
Good workmanship is important in the installation , so if you're doing your own contracting , don't award the job on the basis of price alone .
Avoid attic placement directly above a bedroom .
Most recreation work calls for a good deal of pre-planning .
This is particularly true in site selection .
You must know before you start what the needs and objectives of your organization are ; ;
you must have a list of requirements on where , how many , and what type sites are needed .
With such a program you can make constructive selections of the best sites available .
Begin the examination of a site with a good map and aerial photos if possible .
These are becoming more and more available through the work of counties and other government agencies .
The new editions of topographic maps being made by the federal government are excellent for orienting yourself to the natural features of the site .
These are inexpensive and available from the U. S. Geological Society , Washington 25 , D. C. .
In recent years many counties and the U. S. Forest Service have taken aerial photos which show features in detail and are very good for planning use .
Most counties also have maps available from the county engineer showing roads and other features and from the assessor's office showing ownerships of land .
Inspect the site in the field during the time of the year when the area will be most heavily used for recreation .
This gives you a better opportunity to get the feel of the climate conditions , the exposure to the sun and wind , the water interests , etcetera , which vary greatly with the seasons .
It is usually helpful to make a sketch map in the field , showing the size and location of the features of interest and to take photographs at the site .
These are a great aid for planning use back at the office .
For site planning work , it is best to have a qualified and experienced park planner to carry through the study .
However , there is also much to be gained by making use of the abilities of the local people who are available and interested in recreation .
County judges , commissioners , engineers , assessors , and others who have lived in the area for a long time may have valuable knowledge regarding the site or opinions to offer from their varied professional experiences .
A visit to the site by a group of several persons can usually bring out new ideas or verify opinions most helpful to the planning study of any recreation area .
How much study is required ? ?
This , of course , depends on the character of the site itself , the previous experience of the investigator , and the number of factors needed to arrive at a good decision .
It is too easy for the inexperienced person to make a quick judgment of a few values of the area and base a decision on these alone .
Usually there are more factors to good site planning than first impressions .
A site may be a rundown slum or a desolate piece of desert in appearance today but have excellent potentials for the future with a little development or water .
The same is true of areas which at first look good because of a few existing recreation features but may actually be poor areas to develop for general public use .
In looking for the best sites available that meet the requirements , you need information to compare the site with others .
You need answers to four important questions .
What are the existing recreation features ? ?
How well can the site be developed ? ?
How useful will it be to the public ? ?
Is this site available ? ?
Check the quantity and quality of all of the recreation interests already existing at the site .
Naturally , a park site with scenic views , a good lake , trees , and sand dunes , will attract more people than a nearby area with only trees and dunes .
Quality is vitally important .
Frontage on a body of clear , clean water will be vastly different from the same amount of frontage on polluted water .
Some recreation features , such as scenic values and water interest , also have greater overall value than other interests .
One of the most desirable features for a park are beautiful views or scenery .
It may be distant views of a valley or the mountains or natural features such as a small lake , colorful rock formations , or unusual trees .
A site which overlooks a harbor or river may offer interest in the activities of boating traffic .
An area on the coast may have relaxing views of the surf rolling in on a beach .
A site may also be attractive just through the beauty of its trees and shrubs .
Note extent of these interests and how available they will be for the public to enjoy .
Water interest is one of the most valuable factors you can find for a recreation site .
Most park planners look to water frontage for basic park areas .
This follows naturally since frontage on an ocean , stream , or lake provides scenic values and opportunities for the very popular recreation activities of bathing , fishing , boating , and other water sports .
A body of water is usually the center of interest at parks which attract the greatest picnic and camping use .
It also cools the air in summer and nourishes the trees and wild life .
The amount of water frontage , the quantity and quality of the water , and the recreation afforded by it are important .
A restricted frontage may be too crowded an area for public use .
The quantity of water flow may be critical ; ;
a stream or pond which is attractive in the springtime may become stagnant or dry in late summer .
If the site is on a reservoir , the level of the water at various seasons as it affects recreation should be studied .
Check the quality of the water .
A stream which has all of its watershed within a national forest or other lands under good conservation practices is less likely to be affected by pollution than one passing through unrestricted logging or past an industrial area .
Other factors , such as water temperature , depth of water , the fish life it supports , wave action , flooding , etcetera , will affect its recreation value .
Other natural features which can be of high interest are the forests , canyons , mountains , deserts , seacoast , beaches , sand dunes , waterfalls , springs , etcetera with which the area is blessed .
Just as the national and state parks place emphasis on features which are of national or state significance , counties should seek out these features which are distinctive of their area .
Although the site may not contain the features themselves , there are often opportunities to include them as additional interest to the site .
The route to the park may lead people past them or display views of them .
A group of native trees or plants which are outstanding in a particular county can be featured at the site .
The fish , animals , and birds which may be found at the site are another interest .
Fishing interest calls for a check of the species found , quantity and size , the season they are available , and the stocking program of the fish commission .
Animals may be present at the site or provide hunting in nearby areas .
The site may be on one of the major flyways of migratory birds or have its own resident bird life .
Clams , crabs , and other marine life may add interest at coastal areas .
Each area has its own historical interests with which much can be done .
Park visitors are always eager to learn more about the area they are in .
The historical sign tells its story , but nothing gets interest across as well as some of the original historical items or places themselves which still have the character of the period covered .
Notice should be taken of unusual rock formations , deposits , or shapes of the earth's crust in your region .
Those which tell a story of the earth's formation in each area can add geological interest to the recreation sites .
An old shipwreck , a high dam , an old covered bridge , a place to find agates or other semi-precious stones or a place to pan gold , etcetera may be of interest .
Some areas may provide archeological values such as ancient Indian village sites or hunting areas , caves , artifacts , etcetera .
How well can the site be developed ? ?
Look at the physical features of the land to determine how desirable it is for use , what can be done to correct the faults , and what it will cost to make the area meet your needs in comparison to other sites .
Many things need to be checked :
size and shape
-- The size of the area alone can be a determining factor .
An area may be too small for the needs of the project .
Areas should be large enough to include the attractions , have ample space for the use of facilities needed , and have room around the edges to protect the values of the area from encroachment by private developments .
Acreage in excess of the minimum is good practice as recreation areas are never too large for the future and it is often more economical to operate one large area than several small ones .
Shape of the area is also related to the use attractions and needs of the development .
A large picnic area or camping development is most efficient in shape as a square or rectangle several hundred feet in width in preference to a long narrow area less than one hundred feet wide .
This is true because of savings in utility lines and the fact that your buildings have a useful radius equal in all directions .
However , a narrow strip may be very practical for small developments , or to provide additional stream frontage for a fisherman's trail , or include scenic strips within the park unit .
Adjoining areas
-- The values of the site may be affected by the appearance of the adjoining lands , ownership and use of the land , and the utilities available there .
For instance , a site adjoining other publicly owned lands , such as a national forest or a public road , may be desirable , whereas a site next to an industrial plant might not .
The utilities available nearby may provide a savings in the cost of extending electricity or water to the site .
Topography
-- Topography is very important .
Check the elevation of the ground , degree and direction of slopes , drainage , rock outcrops , topsoil types and quality , as well as subsoil .
Nearly level areas are required for parking areas , beaches , camp areas , ballfields , etcetera .
Determine how much topography limits useful area or what the costs of earth moving or grading might be .
Water
-- In addition to its recreation interests , water is needed for drinking , sanitation , and irrigation .
The quantity and quality of water sources is often a big factor in site selection .
The area may provide good springs or opportunities for a well or be near to municipal water lines .
Figure the cost of providing water to the use areas .
Plants
-- The existing plant growth calls for thorough checking .
Look at the trees as to size and interest , the amount of shade they provide , how healthy they are , the problems of maintenance , fire hazards , wind throw , etcetera .
An area may have been partially logged and requires removal of stumps or clean-up .
Some shrubs may be of good landscaping value , other areas of brush may need to be cleared .
The extent and location of open areas is noted .
Exposure
-- How much will wind , rain , sun , and temperature affect the use ? ?
An area sheltered from strong winds may be highly desirable for recreation use .
The direction , velocity , and season of these winds should be noted as to just how they will affect the recreation use and your maintenance and operation of the area .
Lack of rainfall and extreme temperatures may call for the development of shade and irrigation of a site to make it useable .
Sometimes , you have a choice of exposure for sites where the topography or trees of the area will provide afternoon shade , morning sun , or whatever may be most desirable for the use intended .
Improvements
-- Some areas may already have been improved and contain buildings , roads , utilities , cleared land , etcetera which may raise the cost of the site .
Your invitation to write about Serge Prokofieff to honor his 70th Anniversary for the April issue of Sovietskaya Muzyka is accepted with pleasure , because I admire the music of Prokofieff ; ;
and with sober purpose , because the development of Prokofieff personifies , in many ways , the course of music in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics .
The Serge Prokofieff whom we knew in the United States of America was gay , witty , mercurial , full of pranks and bonheur -- and very capable as a professional musician .
These qualities endeared him to both the musicians and the social-economic haute monde which supported the concert world of the post-World War 1 , era .
Prokofieff's outlook as a composer-pianist-conductor in America was , indeed , brilliant .
Prokofieff's Classical Symphony was hailed as an ingenious work from a naturally gifted and well-trained musician still in his twenties .
To the Traditionalists , it was a brilliant satire on modernism ; ;
to the Neo-Classicists , it was a challenge to the pre-war world .
What was it to Prokofieff ? ?
A tongue-in-cheek stylization of 18th-Century ideas ; ;
a trial balloon to test the aesthetic climate of the times ; ;
a brilliant piece de resistance ? ?
Certainly its composer was an ascending star on a new world horizon .
I heard the Classical Symphony for the first time when Koussevitzky conducted it in Paris in 1927 .
All musical Paris was there .
Some musicians were enthusiastic , some skeptical .
I myself was one of the skeptics ( 35 years ago ) .
I remember Ernest Bloch in the foyer , shouting in his high-pitched voice : `` it may be a tour de force , mais mon Dieu , can anyone take this music seriously '' ? ?
The answer is , `` Yes '' ! !
Certainly , America took Prokofieff and his Classical Symphony seriously , and with a good deal of pleasure .
His life-long friend , Serge Koussevitzky , gave unreservedly of his praise and brilliant performances in Boston , New York , and Washington , D.C. , , to which he added broadcastings and recordings for the whole nation .
Chicago was also a welcome host : there , in 1921 , Prokofieff conducted the world premiere of the Love For Three Oranges , and played the first performance of his Third Piano Concerto .
`` Uncle Sam '' was , indeed , a rich uncle to Prokofieff , in those opulent , post-war victory years of peace and prosperity , bold speculations and extravaganzas , enjoyment and pleasure : `` The Golden Twenties '' .
We attended the premieres of his concertos , symphonies , and suites ; ;
we studied , taught , and performed his piano sonatas , chamber music , gavottes , and marches ; ;
we bought his records and played them in our schools and universities .
We unanimously agreed that Prokofieff had won his rights as a world citizen to the first ranks of Twentieth-Century Composers .
Nevertheless , Prokofieff was much influenced by Paris during the Twenties : the Paris which was the artistic center of the Western World -- the social Paris to which Russian aristocracy migrated -- the chic Paris which attracted the tourist dollars of rich America -- the avant-garde Paris of Diaghileff , Stravinsky , Koussevitzky , Cocteau , Picasso -- the laissez-faire Paris of Dadaism and ultramodern art -- the Paris sympathique which took young composers to her bosom with such quick and easy enthusiasms .
So young Prokofieff was the darling of success : in his motherland ; ;
in the spacious hunting grounds of `` Uncle Sam '' ; ;
in the exciting salons of his lovely , brilliant Paris -- mistress of gaiety -- excess and abandon -- world theatre of new-found freedoms in tone , color , dance , design , and thought .
Meanwhile , three great terrible forces were coagulating and crystallizing .
In this world-wide conscription of men , minds , and machines , Prokofieff was recalled to his native land .
The world exploded when Fascism challenged all concepts of peace and liberty , and the outraged , freedom-loving peoples of the Capitalist and Socialist worlds combined forces to stamp Fascist tyranny into cringing submission .
After this holocaust , a changing world occupied the minds of men ; ;
a world beset with new boundaries , new treaties and governments , new goals and methods , and the age-old fears of aggression and subjugation -- hunger and exposure .
In this changed world , Prokofieff settled to find himself , and to create for large national purpose .
Here , this happy , roving son of good fortune proved that he could accept the disciplines of a new social-economic order fighting for its very existence and ideals in a truculent world .
Here , Prokofieff became a workman in the vineyards of Socialism -- producing music for the masses .
It is at this point in his life that the mature Prokofieff emerges .
One might have expected that such a violent epoch of transition would have destroyed the creative flair of a composer , especially one whose works were so fluent and spontaneous .
But no : Prokofieff grew .
He accepted the environment of his destiny -- took root and grew to fulfill the stature of his early promise .
By 1937 he had clarified his intentions to serve his people : `` I have striven for clarity and melodious idiom , but at the same time I have by no means attempted to restrict myself to the accepted methods of harmony and melody .
This is precisely what makes lucid , straightforward music so difficult to compose -- the clarity must be new , not old '' .
How right he was ; ;
how clearly he saw the cultural defection of experimentation as an escape for those who dare not or prefer not to face the discipline of modern traditionalism .
And with what resource did Prokofieff back up his Credo of words -- with torrents of powerful music .
Compare the vast difference in scope and beauty between his neat and witty little Classical Symphony and his big , muscular , passionate , and eloquent Fifth Symphony ; ;
or the Love For Three Oranges ( gay as it is ) with the wonderful , imaginative , colorful , and subtle tenderness of the magnificent ballet , The Stone Flower .
This masterpiece has gaiety , too , but it is the gaiety of dancing people : earthy , salty and humorous .
Of course , these works are not comparable , even though the same brain conceived them .
The early works were conceived for a sophisticated , international audience ; ;
the later works were conceived to affirm a way of life for fellow citizens .
However , in all of Prokofieff's music , young or mature , we find his profile -- his `` signature '' -- his craftsman's attitude .
Prokofieff never forsakes his medium for the cause of experimentation per se .
In orchestration , he stretches the limits of instrumentation with good judgment and a fine imagination for color .
His sense for rhythmic variety and timing is impeccable .
His creative development of melodic designs of Slavic dance tunes and love songs is captivating : witty , clever , adroit , and subtle .
His counterpoint is pertinent , skillful , and rarely thick .
Also , it should be noted that the polytonal freedom of his melodies and harmonic modulations , the brilliant orchestrations , the adroitness for evading the heaviness of figured bass , the skill in florid counterpoint were not lost in his mature output , even in the spectacular historical dramas of the stage and cinema , where a large , dramatic canvas of sound was required .
That Prokofieff's harmonies and forms sometimes seem professionally routine to our ears , may or may not indicate that he was less of an `` original '' than we prefer to believe .
Need for novelty may be a symptom of cultural fatigue and instability .
Prokofieff might well emerge as a cultural hero , who , by the force of his creative life , helped preserve the main stream of tradition , to which the surviving idioms of current experimentalism may be eventually added and integrated .
At this date , it seems probable that the name of Serge Prokofieff will appear in the archives of History , as an effective Traditionalist , who was fully aware of the lure and danger of experimentation , and used it as it served his purpose ; ;
yet was never caught up in it -- never a slave to its academic dialectics .
Certainly , it is the traditional clarity of his music which has endeared him to the Western World -- not his experimentations .
So Prokofieff was able to cultivate his musical talents and harvest a rich reward from them .
Nor can anyone be certain that Prokofieff would have done better , or even as well , under different circumstances .
His fellow-countryman , Igor Stravinsky , certainly did not .
Why did Prokofieff expand in stature and fecundity , while Stravinsky ( who leaped into fame like a young giant ) dwindled in stature and fruitfulness ? ?
I think the answer is to be found in Prokofieff's own words : `` the clarity must be new , not old '' .
When Prokofieff forged his new clarity of `` lucid , straightforward music , so difficult to compose '' , he shaped his talents to his purpose .
When Stravinsky shaped his purpose to the shifting scenes of many cultures , many salons , many dialectics , many personalities , he tried to refashion himself into a stylist of many styles , determined by many disparate cultures .
Prokofieff was guided in a consistent direction by the life of his own people -- by the compass of their national ideas .
But Stravinsky was swayed by the attitudes of whatever culture he was reflecting .
In all his miscalculations , Stravinsky made the fatal historical blunder of presuming that he could transform other composers' inspirations -- representing many peoples , time periods and styles -- into his own music by warping the harmony , melody , or form , to verify his own experiments .
Because of the authentic homogeneity of his early Nationalistic materials , and his flair for orchestrations -- his brilliant Petruchka , his savage Sacre Du Printemps , his incisive Les Noces -- the world kept hoping that he could recapture the historical direction for which his native talents were predisposed .
But time is running out , and many of Stravinsky's admirers begin to fear that he will never find terra firma .
His various aesthetic postulates remain as landmarks of a house divided against itself : Supra-Expressionism , Neo-Paganism , Neo-Classicism , Neo-Romanticism , Neo-Jazz , Neo-Ecclesiasticism , Neo-Popularism , and most recently , Post-Serialism -- all competing with each other within one composer ! !
What a patchwork of proclamations and renunciations ! !
Meager and shabby by-products linger to haunt our memories of a once mighty protagonist ; ;
a maladroit reharmonization of our National Anthem ( The Star-Spangled Banner ) ; ;
a poor attempt to write an idiomatic jazz concerto ; ;
a circus polka for elephants ; ;
his hopes that the tunes from his old music might be used for popular American commercial songs ! !
Stravinsky , nearing the age of eighty , is like a lost and frantic bird , flitting from one abandoned nest to another , searching for a home .
How differently Prokofieff's life unfolded .
Prokofieff was able to adjust his creative personality to a swiftly changing world without losing his particular force and direction .
In the process , his native endowments were stretched , strengthened and disciplined to serve their human purpose .
With a large and circumspect 20th-Century technique , he wove the materials of national heroes and events , national folklore and children's fairy tales -- Slavic dances and love songs -- into a solid musical literature which served his people well , and is providing much enjoyment to the World at large .
Of course , it must not be forgotten that in achieving this historical feat , Prokofieff had the vast resources of his people behind him ; ;
time and economic security ; ;
symphony orchestras , opera and ballet companies ; ;
choruses , chamber music ensembles ; ;
soloists ; ;
recordings ; ;
broadcastings ; ;
television ; ;
large and eager audiences .
It must be conceded that his native land provided Prokofieff with many of the necessary conditions for great creative incentive : economic security and cultural opportunities , incisive idioms , social fermentations for a new national ideology -- a sympathetic public and a large body of performers especially trained to fulfill his purpose .
Thus in Prokofieff the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics produced one of the great composers of the Twentieth Century .
That his moods , even in his early years , are those of his people , does him honor , as his music honors those who inspired it .
That he mastered every aspect of his medium according to his own great talents and contemporary judgments , is a good and solid symbol of his people under the tremendous pressures of proclaiming and practising the rigors of a new culture ; ;
and perhaps of even greater significance -- his music is strong 20th-Century evidence of the effectiveness of Evolution , based on a broad Traditionalism for the creative art of music .
April 10 marked a memorable date in New York's musical history -- indeed in the musical history of the entire eastern United States .
On that date the Musicians Emergency Fund , organized to furnish employment for musicians unable to obtain engagements during the depression and to provide relief for older musicians who lost their fortunes in the stock market crash , observed its 30th anniversary .
Roy Mason is essentially a landscape painter whose style and direction has a kinship with the English watercolorists of the early nineteenth century , especially the beautifully patterned art of John Sell Cotman .
And like this English master , Mason realizes his subjects in large , simplified masses which , though they seem effortless , are in reality the result of skilled design born of hard work and a thorough distillation of the natural form that inspired them .
As a boy Roy Mason began the long process of extracting the goodness of the out-of-doors , its tang of weather , its change of seasons , its variable moods .
His father , a professional engraver and an amateur landscape painter , took his sons on numerous hunting expeditions , and imparted to them his knowledge and love of nature .
Out of this background of hunting and fishing , it was only natural that Roy first painted subjects he knew best : hunters in the field , fishermen in the stream , ducks and geese on the wing -- almost always against a vast backdrop of weather landscape .
It is this subject matter that has brought Mason a large and enthusiastic following among sportsmen , but it is his exceptional performance with this motif that commends him to artists and discerning collectors .
Mason had to earn the privilege of devoting himself exclusively to painting .
Like many others , he had to work hard , long hours in a struggling family business which , though it was allied to art of a kind -- the design and production of engraved seals -- bore no relation to the painting of pictures .
But it did teach Roy the basic techniques of commercial art , and later , for twelve years , he and his sister Nina conducted an advertising art studio in Philadelphia .
On the death of their father , they returned to their home in Batavia , New York .
After more years of concentrated effort , Roy and his brother Max finally established a thriving family business at the old stand .
During all this time Roy continued to paint , first only on weekends , and then , as the family business permitted , for longer periods .
Gradually he withdrew from the shop altogether , and for the past thirty years , he has worked independently as a painter , except for his continued hunting and fishing expeditions .
But even on these , the palette often takes over while the shotgun cools off ! !
Except for a rich friendship with the painter , Chauncey Ryder who gave him the only professional instruction he ever had -- and this was limited to a few lessons , though the two artists often went on painting trips together -- Roy developed his art by himself .
In the best tradition , he first taught himself to see , then to draw with accuracy and assurance , and then to paint .
He worked in oil for years before beginning his work in watercolor , and his first public recognition and early honors , including his election to the Academy , were for his essays in the heavier medium .
Gradually watercolor claimed his greater affection until today it has become his major , if not exclusive , technique .
It has been my privilege to paint with Roy Mason on numerous occasions , mostly in the vicinity of Batavia .
More often than not I have found easy excuse to leave my own work and stand at a respectable distance where I could watch this man transform raw nature into a composed , not imitative , painting .
What I have observed time and time again is a process of integration , integration that begins as abstract design and gradually takes on recognizable form ; ;
color patterns that are made to weave throughout the whole composition ; ;
and that over-all , amazing control of large washes which is the Mason stylemark .
Finally come those little flicks of a rigger brush and the job is done .
Inspiring -- yes ; ;
instructive -- maybe ; ;
duplicable -- no ! !
But for the technical fact , we have the artist's own testimony :
`` Of late years , I find that I like best to work out-of-doors .
First I make preliminary watercolor sketches in quarter scale ( approximately Af inches ) in which I pay particular attention to the design principles of three simple values -- the lightest light , the middle tone , and the darkest dark -- by reducing the forms of my subject to these large patterns .
If a human figure or wild life are to be part of the projected final picture , I try to place them in the initial sketch .
For me , these will belong more completely to their surroundings if they are conceived in this early stage , though I freely admit that I do not hesitate to add or eliminate figures on the full sheet when it serves my final purpose .
`` I am thoroughly convinced that most watercolors suffer because the artist expects nature will do his composing for him ; ;
as a result , such pictures are only a literal translation of what the artist finds in the scene before him .
Just because a tree or other object appears in a certain spot is absolutely no reason to place it in the same position in the painting , unless the position serves the design of the whole composition .
If the artist would study his work more thoroughly and move certain units in his design , often only slightly , finer pictures would result .
Out of long experience I have found that incidental figures and other objects like trees , logs , and bushes can be traced from the original sketch and moved about in the major areas on the final sheet until they occupy the right position , which I call clicking .
`` Speed in painting a picture is valid only when it imparts spontaneity and crispness , but unless the artist has lots of experience so that he can control rapid execution , he would do well to take these first sketches and soberly reorder their design to achieve a unified composition .
`` If I have seemed to emphasize the structure of the composition , I mean to project equal concern for color .
Often , in working out-of-doors under all conditions of light and atmosphere , a particular passage that looked favorable in relation to the subject will be too bright , too dull , or too light , or too dark when viewed indoors in a mat .
When this occurs , I make the change on the sketch or on the final watercolor -- if I have been working on a full sheet in the field .
`` When working from one of my sketches I square it up and project its linear form freehand to the watercolor sheet with charcoal .
When this linear draft is completed , I dust it down to a faint image .
From this point , I paint in as direct a manner as possible , by flowing on the washes with as pure a color mixture as I can manage .
However , first I thoughtfully study my sketch for improvement of color and design along the lines I have described .
Then I plan my attack : the parts I will finish first , the range of values , the accenting of minor details -- all in all , mechanics of producing the finished job with a maximum of crispness .
The longer I work , the more I am sure that for me , at least , a workmanlike method is important .
Trial and error are better placed in the preliminary sketch than in hoping for miracles in the final painting .
`` As for materials , I use the best available .
I work on a watercolor easel in the field , and frequently resort to a large garden umbrella to protect my eyes from undue strain .
In my studio I work at a tilt-top table , but leave the paper unfixed so that I can move it freely to control the washes .
I have used a variety of heavy-weight hand-made papers , but prefer an English make , rough surface , in 400-pound weight .
After selecting a sheet and inspecting it for flaws ( even the best sometimes has foreign ' nubbins ' on its surface ) , I sponge it thoroughly on both sides with clean , cold water .
Then I dry the sheet under mild pressure so that it will lie flat as a board .
`` In addition to the usual tools , I make constant use of cleansing tissue , not only to wipe my brushes , but to mop up certain areas , to soften edges , and to open up lights in dark washes .
The great absorbency of this tissue and the fact that it is easier to control than a sponge makes it an ideal tool for the watercolorist .
I also use a small electric hand-blower to dry large washes in the studio .
`` My brushes are different from those used by most watercolorists , for I combine the sable and the bristle .
The red sables are 8 ; ;
two riggers , 6 and 10 ; ;
and a very large , flat wash brush .
The bristles are a Fitch 2 and a one-half inch brush shaved to a sharp chisel edge .
`` My usual palette consists of top-quality colors : alizarin crimson , orange , raw sienna , raw umber , burnt sienna , sepia , cerulean blue , cobalt blue , French ultramarine blue , Winsor green , Hooker's green 2 , cadmium yellow pale , yellow ochre , Payne's gray , charcoal gray , Davy's gray , and ivory black '' .
In analyzing the watercolors of Roy Mason , the first thing that comes to mind is their essential decorativeness , yet this word has such a varied connotation that it needs some elaboration here .
True , a Mason watercolor is unmistakably a synthesis of nature rather than a detailed inventory .
Unlike many decorative patterns that present a static flat convention , this artist's pictures are full of atmosphere and climate .
Long observation has taught Mason that most landscape can be reduced to three essential planes : a foreground in sharp focus -- either a light area with dark accents or a dark one with lights ; ;
a middle distance often containing the major motif ; ;
and a background , usually a silhouetted form foiled against the sky .
In following this general principle , Mason provides the observer with a natural eye progression from foreground to background , and the illusion of depth is instantly created .
When painting , Mason's physical eyes are half-closed , while his mind's eye is wide open , and this circumstance accounts in part for the impression he wishes to convey .
He does not insist on telling all he knows about any given subject ; ;
rather his pictures invite the observer to draw on his memory , his imagination , his nostalgia .
It is for this reason that Roy avoids selecting subjects that require specific recognition of place for their enjoyment .
His pictures generalize , though they are inspired by a particular locale ; ;
they universalize in terms of weather , skies , earth , and people .
By dealing with common landscape in an uncommon way , Roy Mason has found a particular niche in American landscape art .
Living with his watercolors is a vicarious experience of seeing nature distilled through the eyes of a sensitive interpretor , a breath and breadth of the outdoor world to help man honor the Creator of it all .
The artist was born in Gilbert Mills , New York , in 1886 , and until two years ago when he and his wife moved to California , he lived in western New York , in Batavia .
When I looked up the actual date of his birth and found it to be March 15th , I realized that Roy was born under the right zodiacal sign for a watercolorist : the water sign of Pisces ( February 18 thru March 20 ) .
And how very often a water plane is featured in his landscapes , and how appropriate that he should appear in American Artist again , in his natal month of March ! !
Over the years , beginning in 1929 , Mason has been awarded seventeen major prizes including two gold medals ; ;
two Ranger Fund purchase awards ; ;
the Joseph Pennell Memorial Medal ; ;
two American Watercolor Society prizes ; ;
the Blair Purchase Prize for watercolor , Art Institute of Chicago ; ;
and others in Buffalo , New York , Chautauqua , New Haven , Rochester , Rockport , and most recently , the $300 prize for a watercolor at the Laguna Beach Art Association ,
He was elected to the National Academy of Design as an Associate in the oil class in 1931 ( after receiving his first Ranger Fund Purchase Prize at the Academy in 1930 ) , and elevated to Academicianship in 1940 .
Other memberships include the American Watercolor Society , Philadelphia Water Color Club , Allied Artists of America , Audubon Artists , Baltimore Watercolor Society .
The Russian gymnasts beat the tar out of the American gymnasts in the 1960 Olympics for one reason -- they were better .
They were better trained , better looking , better built , better disciplined and something else -- they were better dancers .
Our athletes are only just beginning to learn that they must study dance .
The Russians are all trained as dancers before they start to study gymnastics .
But why gymnastics at all ? ?
And is the sport really important ? ?
After all , we did pretty well in some other areas of the Olympics competition .
But if it is important , what can we do to improve ourselves ? ?
It is more than just lack of dance training that is our problem , for just as gymnastics can learn from dance , dance has some very important things to learn from gymnastics .
Taking first things first , let's understand the sport called gymnastics .
It is made up of tumbling , which might be said to start with a somersault , run through such stunts as headstands , handstands , cartwheels , backbends , and culminate in nearly impossible combinations of aerial flips and twists and apparatus work .
The apparatus used by gymnasts was once a common sight in American gyms , but about 1930 it was dropped in favor of games .
The parallel bars , horse , buck , springboard , horizontal bar , rings , and mats formerly in the school gyms were replaced by baseball , volleyball , basketball and football .
But the Russians use gymnastics as the first step in training for all other sports because it provides training in every basic quality except one , endurance .
The gymnast must develop strength , flexibility , coordination , timing , rhythm , courage , discipline , persistence and the desire for perfection .
In short , gymnastics uses every part of the body and requires a great deal of character as well .
The addition of endurance training later , when the body is mature enough to benefit from it without danger of injury , provides that final quality that makes the top athlete , soldier or citizen .
Another reason gymnastic study is valuable is that it can be started very early in life .
( An enterprising teacher or parent could start training a healthy child at the age of seven days .
Most Europeans have been exercising newborn infants for centuries .
) In most sports , as in most walks of life , the angels are on the side of those who begin young , and the Russian competitor of 16 has at least thirteen years of training behind him .
The American is very lucky if he has three .
If a nation wished to get a head start in physical fitness over all other nations , it would start its kindergarten students on a program of gymnastics the day they entered and thus eliminate a large number of the problems that plague American schools .
First of the problems attacked would be fatigue and emotional tension , since action relieves both .
Oddly enough , it is proven that there would be less reading difficulty .
Certainly there would be less anxiety , fewer accidents ( it is the clumsy child who sustains the worst injuries ) , and higher scholastic averages , since alert children work better .
Russia knows this , and that is why there were over 800,000 competing for places as candidates for the Olympic gymnastic team .
Eighty thousand won top honors and a chance to try for the team itself .
We could scarcely find eighty in our great land of over 180 million people .
And what has dancing to do with all this ? ?
A great deal .
Russia's young gymnasts have studied dance before having the rigorous training on apparatus .
Well-stretched , trained in posture and coordinated movement , and wedded to rhythm , they presented the audiences in Rome with one of the most beautiful sights ever seen at any Olympic contest .
American audiences in particular learned two valuable lessons .
They saw completely masculine and obviously virile men performing with incredible grace .
They were further stripped of old wive's tales by seeing the slender , lovely Russian girls performing feats requiring tremendous strength and with not one bulging muscle .
President Kennedy has asked that we become a physically fit nation .
If we wait until children are in junior high or high school , we will never manage it .
To be fit , one has to start early with young children , and today the only person who really reaches such children is the teacher of dance .
If the dance teachers of America make it their business to prepare their young charges for the gymnastics that must come some day if our schools are really responsible , we will be that much ahead .
School teachers , all too unprepared for the job they must do , will need demonstrators .
There should be youngsters who know how to do a headstand , and also how to help other children learn it .
They should know simple exercises that could prepare less fortunate children for the sports we will demand be taught .
Dance teachers can respond to President Kennedy's request not only through their regular dance work , but also through the kind of basic gymnastic work that makes for strength and flexibility .
Very little in today's living provides the strength we need and nothing provides the flexibility .
Dancers do have flexibility .
They often fail , however , to develop real abdominal , back , chest , shoulder and arm strength .
Ask any group of ballerinas to do ten push-ups or three chin-ups and the results , considering the amount of physical training they have had , will be very disappointing .
Even the boys will not be outstanding in these areas .
This isn't surprising when we consider that over 29 percent of the 11-year-old boys in America cannot chin themselves once , and that English school girls outdo them in almost every test ( even dashes and endurance ) .
The only area in which American boys hold their own is the baseball throw .
The chinning bar
For arm and shoulder strength a chinning bar is recommended .
It should be installed over a door that is in full view of everyone , and a chair should be placed under it , a little to one side .
Those children who can chin themselves should be told to do one chin-up each time they pass under it .
Those who are too weak , should climb on the chair and , starting at the top of the chin , let themselves slowly down .
When they can take ten seconds to accomplish the descent , they will have the strength to chin-up .
Parents should be informed about this system and encouraged to do the same with the whole family at home .
The horse kick
Arm , shoulder , chest , upper and lower back strength will be aided with the Horse kick .
Start on hands and feet .
Keeping the hands in the starting position , run in place to a quick rhythm .
After this has become easy , use slower and slower rhythms , kicking higher and higher .
Follow this by crossing from one corner of the room to the other on all fours , kicking as high as possible .
Push-ups
Push-ups are essential , but few have the strength for them at first .
Start on the knees in a large circle .
Fall slowly forward onto the hands and let the body down to rest on the floor .
Push back up and repeat .
Do this exercise six times each class period .
As strength improves start in a standing position with legs wide apart and upper body bent forward .
Start by falling forward to a point close to the feet , and , as strength improves , fall farther and farther out .
Try to push back to the stand position from the stretched position without any intermediate pushes from the hands .
The push-up itself can be taught by starting at the top of the push-up with legs spread wide .
Let the body down slowly , taking at least five seconds for the letting down .
Five of these done daily for about a week will develop the strength for one push-up .
Handstands
Handstands come after arms , chest and shoulders have developed at least a minimum of strength .
Of course those who have developed more will find them easier .
Start with the class standing in a circle , with weight on the right foot and the left extended a little way into the circle .
At first each child should do a kick-up by himself so that the teacher can determine those ready to work alone , and those who need help .
Drop both hands to the floor and at the same time kick the right foot up in back .
The left will follow at once .
The right will land first , followed by the left .
Return to the standing position .
Care should be taken to see that the hands are placed on the floor before the kick starts and also that the landing foot is brought as close to the hands as possible .
This will prevent flat falls and toe injuries .
Bare feet are better for such work than any form of slipper .
Eventually the class will be able to kick up high enough so that the teacher can catch the leading leg .
The child should then bring both legs together overhead , point the toes and tighten the seat muscles .
Be sure that the landing foot is brought close to the hands and that only one foot lands at a time .
Backbends
The backbend is of extreme importance to any form of free gymnastics , and , as with all acrobatics , the sooner begun the better the results .
Have the class lie supine with knees apart and bent .
Place flat palms on either side of the head a few inches away from the ears , fingers pointing toward the shoulders .
Arch the back upwards to make a bridge .
Be sure the head drops backward so that the child looks at the floor rather than toward the ceiling .
As flexibility improves , the feet will move closer to the hands and the bridge rise higher .
Later this can be combined with the handstand to provide a walkover .
Back circle
To further increase back flexibility , work on the back circle .
Have the class lie prone .
Place the hands in front of the chest .
Keep the legs straight and the toes pointed .
Straighten the arms slowly , this arches the back .
At the peak of the arch , tip the head back and bend the knees in an effort to touch toes to head .
Improvement can be measured by the lessening distance between toes and head .
Somersaults
The last essential to the beginner's gymnastic program is the somersault , or forward roll .
This used to be part of every child's bag of tricks , but few children can do it today ; ;
some are actually incapable of rolling forward and are completely confused when not sitting or standing upright .
For most small children , learning a forward roll is simply a matter of copying another child who can .
After it has been seen , have the child start on a mat on hands and knees ( a thin , inexpensive mat is quite sufficient for anything that does not require falling ) .
He places the hands on either side of the head , keeping the chin down on the chest .
He then pushes his seat into the air and the teacher guides it over .
One or two practice runs should be sufficient for solo .
If , however , the child is weak , overweight , or afraid , more help will be needed .
When the child raises his seat into the air , the teacher takes hold under both sides of the pelvis ; ;
then no matter what happens , the child's performance will be controlled .
By lifting the seat upwards a little , the weight is taken off the neck and the back is kept rounded .
These are beginnings , but correctly learned they prepare for satisfying and exciting stunts that can be performed by a strong , flexible body ( we are not talking of eccentric extremes ) .
Even if gymnastics are not the ultimate goal , the good tumbler will be a better dancer , a better athlete , and a human being with a greater margin of safety in any activity .
It is very important for parents to understand that early training is imperative .
And dancing school , so helpful in artistic and psychological development , also contributes to this essential early training -- and can contribute even more .
Every taxpayer is well aware of the vast size of our annual defense budget and most of our readers also realize that a large portion of these expenditures go for military electronics .
We have noted how some electronic techniques , developed for the defense effort , have evenutally been used in commerce and industry .
The host of novel applications of electronics to medical problems is far more thrilling because of their implication in matters concerning our health and vitality .
When we consider the electronic industry potential for human betterment , the prospect is staggering .
The author has recently studied the field of medical electronics and has been convinced that , in this area alone , the application of electronic equipment has enormous possibilities .
The benefits electronics can bring to bio-medicine may be greater by far than any previous medical discovery .
We use the term `` bio-medicine '' because of the close interrelation between biology and medical research .
Electronics has been applied to medicine for many years in the form of such familiar equipment as the x-ray machine , the electrocardiograph , and the diathermy machine .
Recently many doctors have installed ultrasonic vibration machines for deep massage of bruises , contusions , and simple bursitis .
Commonly used electronic devices which are found in practically every hospital are closed-circuit TV and audio systems for internal paging and instruction , along with radiation counters , timers , and similar devices .
In this article we will concentrate on the advances in the application of electronics in bio-medical research laboratories because this is where tomorrow's commonplace equipment originates .
From the wealth of material and the wide variety of different electronic techniques perfected in the past few years we have selected a few examples which appear to be headed for use in the immediate future and which offer completely new tools in medical research .
Ultraviolet microscopy
Many cells , bacteria , and other microorganisms are transparent to visible light and must be stained for microscopic investigation .
This stain often disrupts the normal cell activity or else colors only the outside .
A completely new insight into living cells and their structure will be possible by use of a new technique which replaces visible light with ultraviolet radiation and combines a microscope with a color-TV system to view the results .
Fig. 1 is a simplified block diagram of the ultraviolet microscopy system developed at the Medical Electronics Center of Rockefeller Institute .
By combining the talents of a medical man , Dr. Aterman , a biophysicist , Mr. Berkely , and an electronics expert , Dr. Zworykin , this novel technique has been developed which promises to open broad avenues to understanding life processes .
Three different wavelengths of ultraviolet radiation are selected by the variable filters placed in front of the three mercury xenon lights which serve as the ultraviolet sources .
These wavelengths are reflected in sequence through the specimen by the rotating mirror ; ;
the specimen is magnified by the microscope .
Instead of the observer's eye the image orthicon in the TV camera does the `` looking '' .
The microscope and orthicon are both selected to operate well into the ultraviolet spectrum , which means that all lenses must be quartz .
The video signal is amplified and then switched , in synchronism with the three ultraviolet light sources which are sequenced by the rotating mirror so that during one-twentieth of a second only one wavelength , corresponding to red , green , or blue , is seen .
( Note : Because of light leakage from one ultraviolet source to another , the lights are switched by a commutator-like assembly rotated by a synchronous motor .
This assembly also supplies a 20-cps switching gate for the electronics circuitry .
) This is the same system as was used in the field-sequential color-TV system which preceded the present simultaneous system .
Three separate amplifiers then drive a 21-inch tricolor tube .
The result is a color picture of the specimen where the primary colors correspond to the three different ultraviolet wavelengths .
Many of the cells and microorganisms which are transparent to visible light , absorb or reflect the much shorter wavelengths of the ultraviolet spectrum .
Different parts of these cells sometimes absorb or reflect different wavelengths so that it is often possible to see internal portions of cells in a different color .
Where the microscope under visible light may show only vague shadows or nothing at all , ultraviolet illumination and subsequent translation into a color TV picture reveal a wealth of detail .
At the present time the research team which pioneered this new technique is primarily interested in advancing and perfecting it .
Breathing -- electronically analyzed
The medical title of `` Lobar Ventilation In Man '' by Drs. C. J. Martin and A. C. Young , covers a brief paper which is one part of a much larger effort to apply electronics to the study of the respiratory process .
At the University of Washington Medical School , the electronics group has developed the `` Respiratory Gas Analyzer '' shown in Fig. 3 .
This unit , affectionately dubbed `` The Monster '' , can be wheeled to any convenient location and provides a wealth of information about the patient's breathing .
In the lower center rack an 8-channel recorder indicates the percentage of carbon dioxide and nitrogen from the upper and lower lobes of one lung , the total volume of inhalation per breath , the flow of air from both lobes , and the pressure of the two lobes with respect to each other .
Usually the patient breathes into a mouthpiece while walking a treadmill , standing still , or in some other medically significant position .
From the resulting data the doctor can determine lung defects with hitherto unknown accuracy and detail .
Heart-measuring techniques
The original electrocardiograph primarily indicates irregularities in the heartbeat , but today's techniques allow exact measurements of the flow of blood through the aorta , dimensioning of the heart and its chambers , and a much more detailed study of each heartbeat .
For many of these measurements the chest must be opened , but the blood vessels and the heart itself remain undisturbed .
A group of researchers at the University of Washington have given a paper which briefly outlines some of these techniques .
One simple method of measuring the expansion of the heart is to tie a thin rubber tube , filled with mercury , around the heart and record the change in resistance as the tube is stretched .
A balanced resistance bridge and a pen recorder are all the electronic instrumentation needed .
Sonar can be used to measure the thickness of the heart by placing small crystal transducers at opposite sides of the heart or blood vessel and exciting one with some pulsed ultrasonic energy .
The travel time of sound in tissue is about 1500 meters per second ; ;
thus it takes about 16 Msec. to traverse 25 mm. of tissue .
A sonar or radar-type of pulse generator and time-delay measuring system is required for body-tissue evaluation .
In addition to the heart and aorta , successful measurements of liver and spleen have also been made by this technique .
The Doppler effect , using ultrasonic signals , can be employed to measure the flow of blood without cutting into the blood vessel .
A still more sophisticated system has been devised for determining the effective power of the heart itself .
It uses both an ultrasonic dimensioning arrangement of the heart and a catheter carrying a thermistor inserted into the bloodstream .
The latter measures the heat carried away by the bloodstream as an indication of the velocity of the blood flow .
It is also possible to utilize a pressure transducer , mounted at the end of a catheter which is inserted into the heart's left ventricle , to indicate the blood pressure in the heart itself .
This pressure measurement may be made at the same time that the ultrasonic dimensioning measurement is made .
A simplified version of the instrumentation for this procedure is shown in Fig. 2 .
Outputs of the two systems are measured by a pulse-timing circuit and a resistance bridge , followed by a simple analogue computer which feeds a multichannel recorder .
From this doctors can read heart rate , change in diameter , pressure , and effective heart power .
Radio-transmitter pills
Several years ago headlines were made by a small radio transmitter capsule which could be swallowed by the patient and which would then radio internal pressure data to external receivers .
This original capsule contained a battery and a transistor oscillator and was about 1 cm. in diameter .
Battery life limited the use of this `` pill '' to about 8 to 30 hours maximum .
A refinement of this technique has been described by Drs. Zworykin and Farrar and Mr. Berkely of the Medical Electronics Center of the Rockefeller Institute .
In this novel arrangement the `` pill '' is much smaller and contains only a resonant circuit in which the capacitor is formed by a pressure-sensing transducer .
As shown in Fig. 4 , an external antenna is placed over or around the patient and excited 3000 times a second with short 400-kc. bursts .
The energy received by the `` pill '' causes the resonant circuit to `` ring '' on after the burst and this `` ringing '' takes place at the resonant frequency of the `` pill '' .
These frequencies are amplified and detected by the FM receiver after each burst of transmitted energy and , after the `` pill '' has been calibrated , precise internal pressure indications can be obtained .
One of the advantages of this method is that the `` pill '' can remain in the patient for several days , permitting observation under natural conditions .
Applications to organs other than the gastrointestinal tract are planned for future experiments .
Sonar in medical research
One of the most gratifying applications of an important technique of submarine detection is in the exploration of the human body .
Our readers are familiar with the principles of sonar where sound waves are sent out in water and the echoes then indicate submerged objects .
Various methods of pulsing , scanning , and displaying these sound waves are used to detect submarines , map ocean floors , and even communicate under water .
In medicine the frequencies are much higher , transducers and the sonar beams themselves are much smaller , and different scanning techniques may be used , but the principles involved are the same as in sonar .
Because the body contains so much liquid , transmission of ultrasonic signals proceeds fairly well in muscles and blood vessels .
Bones and cartilage transmit poorly and tend to reflect the ultrasonic signals .
Based on this phenomenon , a number of investigators have used this method to `` look through '' human organs .
A good example of the results obtainable with ultrasonic radiation is contained in papers presented by Dr. G. Baum who has explored the human eye .
He can diagnose detachment of the retina where conventional methods indicate blindness due to glaucoma .
The method used to scan the eye ultrasonically is illustrated in Fig. 6 .
The transducer is coupled to the body through a water bath , not shown .
For display , Dr. Baum uses a portion of an Af , an airborne radar indicator , and then photographs the screen to obtain a permanent record .
A typical `` sonogram '' of a human eye , together with a description of the anatomical parts , is shown in Fig. 5 .
The frequency used for these experiments is 15 mc. and the transducer is a specially cut crystal with an epoxy lens capable of providing beam diameters smaller than one millimeter .
The transducer itself moves the beam in a sector scan , just like a radar antenna , while the entire transducer structure is moved over a 90-degree arc in front of the eye to `` look into '' all corners .
