Cholesterol and thyroid
writes : Does the cholesterol go down when most of the thyroid gland is removed ? ?
Reply :
no .
It usually goes up .
The cholesterol level in the blood is influenced by the glands of the body .
It is low when the thyroid is overactive and high when the gland is sluggish .
The latter is likely to occur when the thyroid is removed .
The gap between the bookshelf and the record cabinet grows smaller with each new recording catalogue .
There's more reading and instruction to be heard on discs than ever before , although the spoken rather than the sung word is as old as Thomas Alva Edison's first experiment in recorded sound .
Edison could hardly have guessed , however , that Sophocles would one day appear in stereo .
If the record buyer's tastes are somewhat eclectic or even the slightest bit esoteric , he will find them satisfied on educational records .
And he will avoid eye-strain in the process .
Everything from poetry to phonetics , history to histrionics , philosophy to party games has been adapted to the turntable .
For sheer ambition , take the Decca series titled modestly `` Wisdom '' .
Volumes One and Two , selected from the sound tracks of a television series , contain `` conversations with the elder wise men of our day '' .
These sages include poet Carl Sandburg , statesman Jawaharlal Nehru and sculptor Jacques Lipchitz , in Volume One , and playwright Sean O'Casey , David Ben-Gurion , philosopher Bertrand Russell and the late Frank Lloyd Wright in the second set .
Hugh Downs is heard interviewing Wright , for an added prestige fillip .
There's more specialization and a narrower purpose in two albums recently issued by Dover Publications .
Dover `` publishes '' what the company calls `` Listen And Learn '' Productions designed to teach foreign languages .
Previous presentations have been on French , Spanish , Russian , Italian , German and Japanese .
But the firm has recognized the tight dollar and the tourist's desire to visit the `` smaller , less-traveled and relatively inexpensive countries '' , and is now prepared to teach modern Greek and Portuguese through recordings .
The respective vocabularies `` essential for travel '' are available in separate albums .
Thanks to Spoken Arts Records , history buffs may hear Lincoln's `` most memorable speeches and letters '' in a two-disc set , interpreted by Lincoln authority and lecturer Roy P. Basler .
As a contemporary bonus , the set includes Carl Sandburg's address at a joint session of Congress , delivered on Lincoln's birthday two years ago .
For those who `` like poetry but never get around to reading it '' , the Library of Congress makes it possible for poets to be heard reading their own work .
The program was instituted in 1940 , and releases are available only from the Recording Laboratory of the Library of Congress , Washington 25 , D.C. .
A catalogue is available on request .
Newest on the list are John Ciardi , W. D. Snodgrass , I. A. Richards , Oscar Williams , Robert Hillyer , John Hall Wheelock , Stephen Vincent Benet , Edwin Muir , John Peal Bishop and Maxwell Bodenheim .
Two poets are paired on each record , in the order given above .
Decca is not the only large commercial company to impart instruction .
RCA Victor has an ambitious and useful project in a stereo series called `` Adventures In Music '' , which is an instructional record library for elementary schools .
Howard Mitchell and the National Symphony perform in the first two releases , designed for grades one and two .
Teaching guides are included with each record .
In an effort to fortify himself against the unforseen upsets sure to arise in the future , Herbert A. Leggett , banker-editor of the Phoenix `` Arizona Progress '' , reflects upon a few of the depressing experiences of the feverish fifties .
One of the roughest was the TV quiz shows , which gave him inferiority complexes .
Though it was a great relief when the big brains on these shows turned out to be frauds and phonies , it did irreparable damage to the ego of the editor and many another intelligent , well-informed American .
But the one that upset the financially wise was the professional dancer who related in a book how he parlayed his earnings into a $2,000,000 profit on the stock market .
Every man who dabbles in the market to make a little easy money on the side and suffers losses could at the time hardly face his wife who was wondering how her husband could be so dumb .
Investors breathed more freely when it was learned that this acrobatic dancer had turned magician and was only doing a best seller book to make some dough .
People who take us for suckers are like the Westerner who had on exhibit his superior marksmanship in the form of a number of bull's-eye achievements .
The promoter who wanted to sign him up for the circus asked him how he was able to do it .
His answer was simple but honest .
He just shot at the board and then drew circles around the holes to form a bull's-eye .
One of the obstacles to the easy control of a 2-year-old child is a lack of verbal communication .
The child understands no .
He senses his mother's disapproval .
But explanations leave him confused and unmoved .
If his mother loves him , he clings to that love as a ballast .
It motivates his behavior .
He wants Mommy to think him a good boy .
He doesn't want her to look frowningly at him , or speak to him angrily .
This breaks his heart .
He wants to be called sweet , good , considerate and mother's little helper .
But even mother's loving attitude will not always prevent misbehavior .
His desires are so strong that he needs constant reassurance of his mother's love for him and what she expects of him , in order to overcome them .
His own inner voice , which should tell him what not to do , has not developed .
It won't develop until he has words with which to clothe it .
The conscience is non-existent in the 2-year-old .
What can a mother do then to prevent misbehavior ? ?
She can decrease the number of temptations .
She can remove all knick-knacks within reach .
The fewer nos she has to utter the more effective they will be .
She should offer substitutes for the temptations which seem overwhelmingly desirable to the child .
If he can't play with Mommy's magazines , he should have some old numbers of his own .
If Daddy's books are out of bounds his own picture books are not .
Toys he has can be made to act as substitutes for family temptations such as refrigerator and gas stove .
During this precarious period of development the mother should continue to influence the growth of the child's conscience .
She tells him of the consequences of his behavior .
If he bites a playmate she says , `` Danny won't like you '' .
If he snatches a toy , she says , `` Caroline wants her own truck just as you do '' .
There is no use trying to `` Explain '' to a 2-year-old .
Actions speak louder .
Remove temptations .
Remove the child from the scene of his misbehavior .
Substitute approved objects for forbidden ones and keep telling him how he is to act .
He won't submit to his natural desires all the time , and it's Mother's love that is responsible for his good behavior .
This is the period during the melancholy days of autumn when universities and colleges schedule what they call `` Homecoming Day '' .
They seek thereby to lure the old grad back to the old scenes .
The football opponent on homecoming is , of course , selected with the view that said opponent will have little more chance than did a Christian when thrown to one of the emperor's lions .
It is true , of course , the uncertainties of life being what they are , that as now and then the Christian killed the lion , homecoming days have been ruined by a visiting team .
Even with all possible precaution , homecomings are usually rather cruel and sad , and only the perpetually ebullient and the continually optimistic are made happy by them .
More often than not , as the Old Grad wanders along the old paths , his memory of happy days when he strolled one of the paths with a coed beside him becomes an ache and a pain .
He can smell again the perfume she wore and recall the lilting sound of laughter , and can smell again the aroma of autumn -- fallen leaves , the wine of cool air , and the nostalgia of woodsmoke which blows through all the winds of fall .
Undergraduates
It is at precisely such moments that he encounters a couple of undergraduates , faces alight , holding hands and talking happily as they come along , oblivious of him , or throwing him the most fleeting and casual of glances , such as they would give a tethered goat .
Usually , they titter loudly after they have passed by .
His dream goes .
He feels , suddenly , the weight of the fat that is on him .
His bridgework or his plates feel loose and monstrous .
His bifocals blur .
His legs suddenly feel heavy and unaccountably weary , as if he had walked for miles , instead of strolling a few hundred yards along the old campus paths .
Bitterness comes over him and the taste of time is like unripe persimmons in his mouth .
It is not much better if he meets with old classmates .
Too often , unless he hails them , they pass him by .
He recalls with a wry smile the wit who said , on returning from a homecoming reunion , that he would never go again because all his class had changed so much they didn't even recognize him .
If they do meet and recognize one another , slap backs and embrace , the moment soon is done .
After all , when one has asked whatever became of old Joe and Charlie when one has inquired who it was Sue Brown married and where it is they now live when questions are asked and answered about families and children , and old professors when the game and its probable outcome has been exhausted that does it .
Middle-aged spread
By then one begins to notice the middle-age spread ; ;
the gray hairs , the eyeglasses , bodies that are too thin or too heavy ; ;
the fading signs of old beauty ; ;
the athlete of by-gone years who wears a size 46 suit and puffs when he has finished a sentence of any length then , it is time to break it up and move on .
It is , if anything , worse on the old player
He sits in the stands and he doesn't like that .
Enough of his life was spent there on the field for him never to like watching the game as a spectator in the crowd .
He always feels lonely .
A team feels something .
On a team a man feels he is a part of it and akin to the men next to him .
In the stands he is lonely and lost , no matter how many are about him .
He sits there remembering the tense moment before the ball was snapped ; ;
the churning of straining feet , the rasp of the canvas pants ; ;
the smell and feel of hot , wet woolen sleeves across his face .
He remembers the desperate , panting breath ; ;
the long runs on the kick-offs ; ;
the hard , jolting tackles ; ;
the breakthrough ; ;
the desperate agony of goal-line stands .
And so , he squirms with each play , remembering his youth .
But it is no use .
It is gone .
No matter how often a man goes back to the scenes of his youth and strength , they can never be recaptured again .
Since the obvious is not always true , the Republican National Committee wisely analyzed its defeat of last autumn and finds that it occurred , as suspected , in the larger cities .
Of 40 cities with populations of 300,000 and more , Mr. Kennedy carried 26 and Mr. Nixon 14 .
There are eight states in which the largest urban vote can be the balance of power in any close election .
These are New York , Pennsylvania , Michigan , Maryland , Missouri , New Jersey , Illinois and Minnesota .
In 1952 Mr. Eisenhower won all but Missouri .
Yet , in 1960 all eight gave majorities to Mr. Kennedy .
Republican research broke down the vote in Philadelphia .
Mr. Nixon , despite a very earnest effort to capture the minority groups , failed to do so .
His visit to Warsaw , Poland , after the Russian journey in the summer of 1959 was expected to win the Polish vote which , in several cities , is substantial .
Yet , the GOP breakdown discovered that in Philadelphia Mr. Nixon received but 21 per cent of the so-called `` Polish '' vote ; ;
30 per cent of the `` Irish '' vote , and 18 per cent of the `` Negro '' vote .
' task force '
A GOP `` task force ' committee will seek to find out how its party may win support from the ethnic and minority groups in cities .
The task force might make a start in Washington with Republican congressional leaders .
These gentlemen already have done the party harm by their seeming reluctance to vote aid for the depressed areas and by their criticism of Mr. Kennedy for talking about a recession and unemployment .
This error was compounded by declaring the recession to be `` a statistical one '' , and not a reality .
The almost six million persons without jobs and the two million working part-time do not consider themselves and their plight as statistical .
They did not view the tour of the distressed cities and towns by Secretary of Labor Goldberg as politics , which the GOP declared it to be .
The people visited were glad to have a government with heart enough to take an interest in their misery .
Senator Mundt's gross distortion of President Eisenhower's conversation into a denunciation of President Kennedy as too left wing , a statement Mr. Eisenhower declared to be entirely false , is another case in point .
If the Republicans and Southern Democrats join to defeat medical care for the old under the Social Security program , they will thereby erect still another barrier to GOP hopes in the cities .
Errors repeated
The present Republican leadership as practiced by Mundt , Goldwater , Bridges , Dirksen , et al , is repeating the errors of the party leadership of the 1930s .
In that decade the partisan zeal to defend Mr. Hoover , and the party's failure to anticipate or cope with the depression , caused a great majority of Americans to see the Republican party as cold and lacking in any sympathy for the problems of human beings caught up in the distress and suffering brought on by the economic crash .
The Republican party was not lacking in humanity , but it permitted its extremely partisan leadership to make it appear devoid of any consideration for people in trouble .
Farmers called their mule-drawn pickup trucks `` Hoover carts '' .
Smokers reduced to `` the makings '' , spoke of the sack tobacco as `` Hoover dust '' .
One may be sure the present Republican congressional leadership hasn't meant to repeat this error .
But it is in the process of so doing because it apparently gives priority to trying to downgrade John F. Kennedy .
That this is not good politics is underscored by the latest poll figures which show that 72 per cent of the people like the way in which the new President is conducting the nation's business .
The most articulate Republicans are those who , in their desire to get back at Mr. Kennedy , already have created the image of a Republican leadership which is reluctant to assist the distressed and the unemployed , and which is even more unwilling to help old people who need medical care .
If they also defeat the school bill , the GOP task force won't have much research to do .
It will early know why the party won't win back city votes .
The 1962 General Assembly has important business to consider .
The tragedy is that it will not be able to transact that business in any responsible manner .
After the Griffin-Byrd political troup has completed the circuit in November in the name of a Pre-Legislative Forum , this is going to be the most politically oriented Legislature in history .
Every legislator from Brasstown Bald to Folkston is going to have his every vote subjected to the closest scrutiny as a test of his political allegiances , not his convictions .
Hoped-for legislative action on adjustment of the county unit system stands less chance than ever .
And just how far can the Legislature go toward setting up a self-insurance system for the state in the midst of a governor's race '' ? ?
How unpartisan will be the recommendations of Lt. Gov. Garland Byrd's Senate Committee on Government Operations ? ?
The situation already was bad because the Legislature moved the governor's race forward a few months , causing the campaigning to get started earlier than usual .
But when former Gov. Marvin Griffin and Lt. Gov. Byrd accepted the invitations of the Georgia State Chamber of Commerce to join the tour next November , the situation was aggravated .
Neither had a choice other than to accept the invitation .
To have refused would have been political suicide .
And it may be that one or both men actually welcomed the opportunity , when the bravado comments are cast aside .
The Georgia State Chamber of Commerce tried to guard against the danger of eliminating potential candidates .
It wanted the State Democratic Executive Committee to pick the `` serious candidates '' .
But State Party Chairman James Gray of Albany said no , and he didn't mince any words .
`` They are just asking too much '' , he said .
We can't think of anyone else who would want to separate serious candidates from other candidates , either .
There are other dangers :
Politics is an accelerating game .
`` If an opponent accuses you of lying , don't deny it .
Say he is a horse thief '' , runs an old adage .
These men are spenders .
If either one ever started making promises , there is no telling where the promises would end .
Griffin's Rural Roads Authority and Byrd's 60,000 miles of county contracts would look like pauper's oaths .
The trouble is that at first glance the idea looks like such a good one .
Why not have them travel the state in November debating ? ?
It would present a forum for them in almost every community .
But further thought brings the shuddery visions of a governor's race being run in the next Legislature , the spectre of big spending programs , the ooze of mudslinging before the campaign should even begin .
There is a way out of this .
The Chamber has not arranged a pre-legislative forum .
It has arranged a campaign for governor .
If it will simply delay the debates until the qualifications are closed next spring , and then carry all the candidates on a tour of debates , it can provide a service to the state .
But the Legislature should be granted the opportunity to complete its work before choosing up sides for the race .
Former British Prime Minister Attlee says Eisenhower was not a `` great soldier '' .
Ike's somewhat like George Washington .
Both won a pretty fair-sized war with a modest assist from British strategy .
Congressmen returning from recess say the people admire President Kennedy so much , they're even willing to heed his call to sacrifice -- and give up his program .
Slogan of the John Birch Society : `` Paddle your own canoe .
The guy who makes the motor boats may be a Communist '' .
A Republican survey says Kennedy won the '60 election on the religious issue .
Too many people were afraid if the GOP won , they'd have to spend all their time praying .
The Providence Journal editorial ( Jan. 25 ) entitled `` East Greenwich Faces A Housing Development Problem '' points to a dilemma that faces communities such as ours .
Your suggested solution , it seems to me , is grossly oversimplified and is inconsistent with your generally realistic attitude toward , and endorsement of , sound planning .
First of all there is ample area in East Greenwich already zoned in the classification similar to that which petitioner requested .
This land is in various stages of development in several locations throughout the town .
The demand for these lots can be met for some time to come .
This would seem to indicate that we are trying neither `` to halt an influx of migrants '' nor are we `` setting up such standards for development that only the well-to-do could afford to buy land and build in the new sites '' .
What we are attempting to do is achieve and maintain a balance between medium density and low density residential areas and industrial and commercial development .
It is in fact entirely consistent with your suggestion of modest industrial development to help pay governmental costs .
Bostitch , Inc. is approximately half way through a 10-year exemption of their real estate tax .
The wisdom of granting such tax exemptions is another matter , but this particular instance is , in my opinion , completely satisfactory .
The 1960 tax book for East Greenwich indicates a valuation for this property in excess of two million dollars .
With our current $3 per hundred tax rate , it is safe to assume that this will qualify when you suggest a community should `` try to develop a modest industrial plant '' as the best way to meet these problems .
In order to attract additional industry that is compatible with this community it is all the more important to present to the industrial prospect an orderly balance in the tax structure .
As this tax base grows so then can your medium and low density residential areas grow .
Mr. Richard Preston , executive director of the New Hampshire State Planning and Development Commission , in his remarks to the Governors Conference on Industrial Development at Providence on October 8 , 1960 , warned against the fallacy of attempting to attract industry solely to reduce the tax rate or to underwrite municipal services such as schools when he said : `` If this is the fundamental reason for a community's interest or if this is the basic approach , success if any will be difficult to obtain '' .
He went on to say : `` In the first place , industry per se is not dedicated to the role of savior of foundering municipalities .
It is not in business for the purpose of absorbing increased municipal costs no matter how high a purpose that may be '' .
While Councilman Olson cited the anticipated increase in school costs in answer to a direct question from a taxpayer , the impact upon a school system does not have to be measured only in increased taxes to find alarm in uncontrolled growth .
We in East Greenwich have the example of two neighboring communities , one currently utilizing double sessions in their schools , and the other facing this prospect next year .
It has already been reported in your newspapers that the East Greenwich School Committee is considering additions to at least one elementary school and to the high school to insure future accommodations for a school population that we know will increase .
If they are to be commended for foresight in their planning , what then is the judgment of a town council that compounds this problem during the planning stage ? ?
Where then is the sound planning and cooperation between agencies within the community that you have called for in other editorials ? ?
I submit that it cannot be dismissed simply by saying we are not facing the facts of life .
The `` fruitful course '' of metropolitanization that you recommend is currently practiced by the town of East Greenwich and had its inception long before we learned what it was called .
For example : 1 .
The East Greenwich Police Department utilizes the radio transmission facilities of the Warwick Police Department , thereby eliminating duplication of facilities and ensuring police coordination in the Cowessett-East Greenwich-Potowomut area of the two communities .
2 .
The East Greenwich Fire District services parts of Warwick as well as East Greenwich .
3 .
The taxpayers of East Greenwich appropriate sums of money , as do other Kent County communities , for the support of the Kent County Memorial Hospital , a regional facility .
4 .
The East Greenwich Free Library receives financial support from the town of East Greenwich and the City of Warwick to supplement its endowment .
5 .
Feelers were put out last year to the City of Warwick , as reported in your newspapers , suggesting investigation of a common rubbish disposal area to service the Potowomut and Cowessett areas of Warwick along with East Greenwich .
6 .
East Greenwich was one of the first Rhode Island towns to enter into contract agreement with the Rhode Island Development Council for planning services we could not provide for ourselves .
7 .
The education program for retarded children conducted by the East Greenwich school system has pupils from at least one neighboring community .
I feel compelled to write this because I am greatly concerned with the problem of community growth rate and the relation between types of growth in a town such as East Greenwich .
I believe it is an area in which professional planners have failed to set adequate guide posts ; ;
and yet they cannot ignore this problem because it concerns the implementation of nearly all the planning programs they have devised .
These programs are volumes of waste paper and lost hours if the citizens of a community must stand aside while land developers tell them when , where , and in what manner the community shall grow .
We have far less to fear in the migrant family than we have in the migrant developer under these conditions .
Until professional planners meet this situation squarely and update the concepts of zoning in a manner acceptable to the courts , I hope we in East Greenwich can continue to shape our own destiny .
I would like very much , on behalf of my husband and myself , to send our eternal thanks to all the wonderful people responsible for the Gabrielle Fund .
It is indeed true , as stated in the famous novel of our day , `` For Whom The Bell Tolls '' , that `` no man is an island , entirely of itself ; ;
every man is a piece of the continent , a part of the main '' .
Thanks to the generosity of Mr. Irving J. Fain , president of the Temple Beth El ; ;
Rev. DeWitt Clemens , pastor of the Mathewson Street Methodist Church ; ;
Mr. Felix Miranda , of the Imperial Knife Co. ; ;
and to Mrs. Rozella Switzer , regional director of The National Conference of Christians and Jews , who asked them to serve as a committee for the fund .
It is through them that we have become aware of the divine humanity in man , and therefore , that most people are noble , helpful and good .
Bless you my friends , for it is through love and service that brotherhood becomes a reality .
I am a sophomore at Mount Pleasant High School .
My future plans are to become a language teacher .
Of course , having this desire , I am very interested in education .
A few weeks ago , I read in the Bulletin that there were to be given Chinese classes in Cranston .
The article also said that a person had to be 18 years old or over , and must not be going to high school to attend these classes .
The following week , I read in the Sunday paper that the students of Russia begin European and Asian languages in the seventh grade .
I wish you could see the situation as I see it .
If Russian pupils have to take these languages , how come American students have a choice whether or not to take a language , but have to face so many exceptions ? ?
I do not think that America is like Russia , not in the least ! !
I am proud of my country , the small city I live in , my wonderful parents , my friends and my school ; ;
but I am also a young , able and willing girl who wants to study the Chinese language but is not old enough .
Then people wonder why Russian pupils are more advanced than American students .
Well , there lies your answer .
At the height of the first snowstorm we had , it was impossible for me to get medical attention needed during an emergency .
However , the East Providence Rescue Squad made its way through to my home in time of desperation .
Words cannot tell of the undivided attention and comfort their service gave to me .
The concern they felt for me was such as I shall never forget and for which I will always be grateful .
The rescue squad is to be praised immensely for the fine work they do in all kinds of weather .
Had they not gotten me to the hospital when they did , perhaps I would not be here to commend them at this time .
Many thanks for a job well done .
The Providence Sunday Journal article ( Jan. 29 ) asking whether American taxpayers are being victimized by a gigantic giveaway to pay for the care of war veterans who have non-service-connected disabilities sounds as though The Providence Journal is desperate for news .
Usually a veteran has to hang himself to get space on the front page .
On the question of admission to Veterans Administration hospitals of service-connected and non-service-connected disabled veterans , it must be recognized that there are many men who are greatly affected by war service .
It can manifest itself before discharge from service , or it can come out years later .
There is one other point we should never lose sight of : Many veterans who enter VA hospitals as non-service cases later qualify as service-connected .
No psychiatrist could tell me that the experience in a war can not have its effect in the ensuing years .
The arguments advanced by those individuals and groups who oppose the system in force and who would drastically curtail or do away entirely with hospital care for the non-service-connected case , seem to be coldly impractical and out-of-step with the wishes of the general public .
I believe in priority for service-connected disabled veterans in admission to VA hospitals .
But I don't believe we should close the door on non-service-connected patients .
This matter is of great importance , and the outcome may mean the difference between life or death , or at least serious injuries , for many veterans .
Some critics say that the length of stay in a hospital is too long .
There's a reason for this length of stay .
First of all , the admitting physician in the VA hospital gets the patient as a new patient .
He has no experience with this veteran's previous medical record .
If the doctor is conscientious , he wants to study the patient .
As a result , it takes a little longer than it would on the outside where the family physician knows about the patient .
Secondly , the VA physician knows that when the patient leaves the hospital , he is no longer going to have a chance to visit his patient .
So he keeps the veteran in until he can observe the effects of treatment or surgery .
The American public must be presented with the facts concerning VA hospitalization .
The public should understand that whether they support a state hospital or a VA hospital , the tax dollar has to be paid one way or the other .
The responsibility is still going to be there whether they pay for a VA hospital or the tax dollar is spent for the state hospital .
An adequate system of VA hospitals is better equipped to care for the veterans than any 50 state hospitals .
It seems that open season upon veterans' hospitalization is once more upon us .
The American Medical Association is once again grinding out its tear-soaked propaganda based upon the high cost of the Veterans Administration medical program to the American taxpayer .
Do they , the A.M.A. , offer any solution other than outright abolition of a medical system unsurpassed anywhere in the world ? ?
We veterans acknowledge the fact that as time passes the demand for medical care at VA hospitals will grow proportionately as age fosters illness .
Nevertheless , we wonder at the stand of the A.M.A. on the health problem confronting the aged .
They opposed the Forand bill , which would have placed the major burden of financial support upon the individual himself through compulsory payroll deduction ; ;
yet they supported the Eisenhower administration which will cost a small state like ours approximately five million dollars ( matched incidentally by a federal grant ) to initiate .
`` A lousy job ''
Chicago , Aug. 9
-- No doubt there have been moments during every Presidency when the man in the White House has had feelings of frustration , exasperation , exhaustion , and even panic .
This we can sympathetically understand .
But no President ever before referred to his as a `` lousy job '' ( as Walter Trohan recently quoted President Kennedy as doing in conversation with Sen. Barry Goldwater ) .
During his aggressive campaign to win his present position , Mr. Kennedy was vitriolic about this country's `` prestige '' abroad .
What does he think a remark like this `` lousy '' one does to our prestige and morale ? ?
If the President of the United States really feels he won himself a `` lousy job '' , then heaven help us all .
Questions shelters
Evansville , Ind. , Aug. 5
-- Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara has asked Congress for authority and funds to build fallout shelters costing about 200 million dollars .
Why should Congress even consider allowing such a sum for that which can give no protection ? ?
Top scientists have warned that an area hit by an atomic missile of massive power would be engulfed in a suffocating fire storm which would persist for a long time .
The scientists have also warned that no life above ground or underground , sheltered or unsheltered could be expected to survive in an area at least 50 miles in diameter .
This sum spent for foreign economic aid , the peace corps , food for peace , or any other program to solve the problems of the underdeveloped countries would be an investment that would pay off in world peace , increased world trade , and prosperity for every country on the globe .
Let us prepare for peace , instead of for a war which would mean the end of civilization .
Short shorts on the campus
Chicago , Aug. 4
-- It seems college isn't what it should be .
I refer to the attire worn by the students .
Upon a visit to a local junior college last week , I was shocked to see the young ladies wearing short shorts and the young men wearing Bermuda shorts .
Is this what our children are to come face to face with when they are ready for college in a few years ? ?
Education should be uppermost in their minds , but with this attire how can anyone think it is so ? ?
It looks more like they are going to play at the beach instead of taking lessons on bettering themselves .
High school students have more sense of the way to dress than college students .
Many high school students go past my house every day , and they look like perfect ladies and gentlemen .
No matter how hot the day , they are dressed properly and not in shorts .
Masaryk award
Chicago , Aug. 9
-- The granting of the Jan Masaryk award August 13 to Senator Paul Douglas is a bitter example of misleading minorities .
Douglas has consistently voted to aid the people who killed Masaryk , and against principles Masaryk died to uphold .
Douglas has voted for aid to Communists and for the destruction of individual freedom ( public housing , foreign aid , etc. ) .
Subsidies from CTA
Oak Park , Aug. 8
-- In Today's `` Voice '' , the CTA is urged to reduce fares for senior citizens .
Rising costs have increased the difficulties of the elderly , and I would be the last to say they should not receive consideration .
But why is it the special responsibility of the CTA to help these people ? ?
Why should CTA regular riders subsidize reduced transportation for old people any more than the people who drive their own cars or walk to work should ? ?
The welfare of citizens , old and young , is the responsibility of the community , not only of that part of it that rides the Aj .
CTA regulars already subsidize transportation for school children , policemen , and firemen .
Marketing meat
Chicago , Aug. 9
-- In reply to a letter in Today's `` Voice '' urging the sale of meat after 6 p.m. , I wish to state the other side of the story .
I am the wife of the owner of a small , independent meat market .
My husband's hours away from home for the past years have been from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. the early part of the week , and as late as 8 or 9 on week-ends .
Now he is apparently expected to give up his evenings -- and Sundays , too , for this is coming .
There is a trend to packaging meat at a central source , freezing it , and shipping it to outlying stores , where meat cutters will not be required .
If a customer wishes a special cut , it will not be available .
We are slowly being regimented to having everything packaged , whether we want it or not .
Most women , in this age of freezers , shop for the entire week on week-ends , when prices are lower .
Also , many working wives have children or husbands who take over the shopping chores for them .
Independent market owners work six days a week ; ;
and my husband hasn't had a vacation in 14 years .
No , we are not greedy .
But if we closed the store for a vacation , we would lose our customers to the chain stores in the next block .
The meat cutters' union , which has a history of being one of the fairest and least corrupt in our area , represents the little corner markets as well as the large supermarkets .
What it is trying to do is to protect the little man , too , as well as trying to maintain a flow of fresh meat to all stores , with choice of cut being made by the consumer , not the store .
The Legion Convention and Sidney Holzman
Chicago , Aug. 9
-- I , too , congratulate the American Legion , of which I am proud to have been a member for more than 40 years , on the recent state convention .
I regret that Bertha Madeira ( Today's `` Voice '' ) obtained incorrect information .
Had I been granted the floor on a point of personal privilege , the matter she raised would have been clarified .
The resolution under discussion at the convention was to require the boards of election to instruct judges to properly display the American flag .
Judges under the jurisdiction of the Chicago board of election commissioners are instructed to do this .
The resolution further asked that polling place proprietors affix an attachment to their premises for the display of the flag .
It was my desire to advise the membership of the Legion that the majority of polling places are on private property and , without an amendment to the law , we could not enforce this .
My discussion with reference to the resolution was that we should commend those citizens who serve as judges of election and who properly discharge their duty and polling place proprietors who make available their private premises , and not by innuendo criticize them .
At no time did I attempt to seek approval or commendation for the members of the Chicago board of election commissioners for the discharge of their duties .
Teaching the handicapped
Chicago , Aug. 7
-- The Illinois Commission for Handicapped Children wishes to commend the recent announcement by the Catholic charities of the archdiocese of Chicago and DePaul University of the establishment of the Institute for Special Education at the university for the training of teachers for physically handicapped and mentally retarded children .
In these days of serious shortage of properly trained teachers qualified to teach physically handicapped and mentally handicapped children , the establishment of such an institute will be a major contribution to the field .
The Illinois Commission for Handicapped Children , which for 20 years has had the responsibility of coordinating the services of tax supported and voluntary organizations serving handicapped children , of studying the needs of handicapped children in Illinois , and of promoting more adequate services for them , indeed welcomes this new important resource which will help the people of Illinois toward the goal of providing an education for all of its children .
From Candlelight Club
Minneapolis , Aug. 7
-- I just want to let you know how much I enjoyed your June 25 article on Liberace , and to thank you for it .
Please do put more pictures and articles in about Liberace , as he is truly one of our greatest entertainers and a really wonderful person .
More school , less pay
Chicago , Aug. 7
-- Is this , perhaps , one of the things that is wrong with our country ? ?
Engineering graduates of Illinois Institute of Technology are reported receiving the highest average starting salaries in the school's history -- $550 a month .
My son , who has completed two years in engineering school , has a summer job on a construction project as an unskilled laborer .
At a rate of $3.22 an hour he is now earning approximately $580 a month .
Ironic , is it not , that after completing years of costly scientific training he will receive a cut in pay from what he is receiving as an ordinary unskilled laborer ? ?
The Dupont case
( Editorial comment on this letter appears elsewhere on this page ) .
Washington , Aug. 4
-- Your July 26 editorial regarding the position of Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy on prospective tax relief for DuPont stockholders is based on an erroneous statement of fact .
As a result , your criticism of Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and the Department of Justice was inaccurate , unwarranted and unfair .
The editorial concerned legislative proposals to ease the tax burden on DuPont stockholders , in connection with the United States Supreme Court ruling that DuPont must divest itself of its extensive General Motors stock holdings .
These proposals would reduce the amount of tax that DuPont stockholders might have to pay -- from an estimated 1.1 billion dollars under present law to as little as 192 million dollars .
Congressman Wilbur D. Mills , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , asked the Department of Justice for its views on these legislative proposals as they related to anti-trust law enforcement .
The Attorney General responded by letter dated July 19 .
Copies of this letter were made avaliable to the press and public .
In this letter , Mr. Kennedy made it clear that he limited his comment only to one consideration -- what effect the legislative proposals might have on future anti-trust judgments .
There are a number of other considerations besides this one but it is for the Congress , not the Department of Justice , to balance these various considerations and make a judgment about legislation .
Yet your editorial said : `` Now the Attorney General writes that no considerations ' justify any loss of revenue of this proportion ' '' .
What Mr. Kennedy , in fact , wrote was : `` It is the Department's view that no anti-trust enforcement considerations justify any loss of revenue of this proportion '' .
The editorial , by omitting the words anti-trust enforcement , totally distorted Mr. Kennedy's views .
The headline is offensive , particularly in view of the total inaccuracy of the editorial .
Congresswoman Church
Wilmette , Aug. 7
-- I concur most heartily with today's letter on the futility of writing to Sen. Dirksen and Sen. Douglas .
But when you write to Congresswoman Church , bless her heart , your letter is answered fully and completely .
Should she disagree , she explains why in detail .
When she agrees , you can rest assured her position will remain unchanged .
I think we have the hardest working , best representative in Congress .
Harmful drinks
Downers Grove , Aug. 8
-- A recent news story reported that Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin delayed 103 airplane passengers 10 minutes in London while they finished their drinks .
They do our country great harm by such actions .
Those in the public eye should be good examples of American citizens while abroad .
The plane should have started at the scheduled time and left Sinatra and Martin to guzzle .
Toward socialism
Providence , Aug. 5
-- Overt socialism means government ownership and management of a nation's main industries .
In covert socialism -- toward which America is moving -- private enterprise retains the ownership title to industries but government thru direct intervention and excessive regulations actually controls them .
In order to attract new industries , 15 states or more are issuing tax free bonds to build government owned plants which are leased to private enterprise .
This is a step toward overt socialism .
Issuing bonds for plant construction has brought new industries to certain regions .
`` Workers of the party ''
to the editor :
Sir -- We are writing in reference to a recent `` suggestion '' made to the staff of the Public Health Nursing Service of Jersey City ( registered professional nurses with college background and varying experiences ) .
The day before Election Day , to which we are entitled as a legal holiday , we were informed to report to our respective polls to work as `` workers of the party '' .
Being ethical and professional people interested in community health and well-being , we felt this wasn't a function of our position .
Such tactics reek of totalitarianism ! !
As we understand , this directive was given to all city and county employes .
To our knowledge no nurse in our agency has been employed because of political affiliation .
We , therefore , considered the `` suggestion '' an insult to our intelligence , ethics , Bill of Rights , etc. .
Our only obligation for this day is to vote , free of persuasion , for the person we feel is capable in directing the public .
This is our duty -- not as nurses or city employes -- but as citizens of the United States .
`` Plus-one '' shelters
to the editor :
Sir -- I read of a man who felt he should not build a fallout shelter in his home because it would be selfish for him to sit secure while his neighbors had no shelters .
Does this man live in a neighborhood where all are free loaders unwilling to help themselves , but ready to demand that `` the community '' help and protect them ? ?
Community shelters are , of course , necessary for those having no space for shelter .
If in a town of 2,000 private homes , half of them have shelters , the need for the community shelters will be reduced to that extent .
In designing his home fallout shelter there is nothing to prevent a man from planning to shelter that home's occupants , `` plus-one '' -- so he will be able to take in a stranger .
I hope the man who plans to sit on his hands until the emergency comes will have a change of heart , will get busy and be the first member of our `` plus-one '' shelter club .
Escape
to the editor :
Sir -- People continue to inquire the reason for the race for outer space .
It's simple enough from my point of view .
I am for it .
It is the only method left for a man to escape from a woman's world .
Supports Katanga
to the editor :
Sir -- When the colonies decided upon freedom from England , we insisted , through the Declaration of Independence , that the nations of the world recognize us as a separate political entity .
It is high time the United States began to realize that the God-given rights of men set forth in that document are applicable today to Katanga .
In the United Nations Charter , the right of self-determination is also an essential principle .
This , again , applies to Katanga .
The people of Katanga had fought for , and obtained , their freedom from the Communist yoke of Antoine Gizenga , and his cohorts .
By political , economic , geographic and natural standards , they were justified in doing so .
The United States and the U.N. denounce their own principles when they defend the Communist oppressors and refuse to acknowledge the right of self-determination of the Katangans .
County college costs
to the editor :
Sir -- Permit me to commend your editorial in which you stress the fact that a program of county colleges will substantially increase local tax burdens and that taxpayers have a right to a clear idea of what such a program would commit them to .
The bill which passed the Assembly last May and is now pending in the Senate should be given careful scrutiny .
The procedure for determining the amounts of money to be spent by county colleges and raised by taxation will certainly startle many taxpayers .
Under the proposal the members of the board of trustees of a county college will be appointed ; ;
none will be elected .
The trustees will prepare an annual budget for the college and submit it to the board of school estimate .
This board will consist of two of the trustees of the college , and the director and two members of the board of freeholders .
It will determine the amount of money to be spent by the college and will certify this amount to the board of freeholders , which `` shall appropriate in the same manner as other appropriations are made by it the amount so certified and the amount shall be assessed , levied and collected in the same manner as moneys appropriated for other purposes '' .
The approval of only three members of the board of school estimate is required to certify the amount of money to be allotted to the college .
Since two of these could be trustees of the college , actually it would be necessary to have the consent of only one elected official to impose a levy of millions of dollars of tax revenue .
This is taxation without representation .
Taxing improvements
to the editor :
Sir -- Your editorial , `` Housing Speedup '' , is certainly not the answer to our slum problems .
The very rules and regulations in every city are the primary case of slum conditions .
Change our taxing law so that no tax shall be charged to any owner for additions or improvements to his properties .
Then see what a boom in all trades , as well as slum clearance at no cost to taxpayers , will happen .
Our entire economy will have a terrific uplift .
`` Natural causes ''
to the editor :
Sir -- An old man is kicked to death by muggers .
The medical examiner states that death was due to `` natural causes '' .
I once heard a comedian say that if you are killed by a taxicab in New York , it is listed as `` death due to natural causes '' .
Praises exhibit
to the editor :
Sir -- Every resident of this city should visit the Newark Museum and see the exhibit `` Our Changing Skyline in Newark '' .
It will be at the museum until March 30 .
It is a revelation of what has been done , what is being done and what will be done in Newark as shown by architects' plans , models and pictures .
It shows what a beautiful city Newark will become and certainly make every Newarker proud of this city .
It should also make him desire to participate actively in civic , school and religious life of the community so that that phase of Newark will live up to the challenge presented by this exhibit .
Parkway courtesy
to the editor :
Sir -- I hasten to join in praise of the men in the toll booths on the Garden State Parkway .
Recently I traveled the parkway from East Orange to Cape May and I found the most courteous group of men you will find anywhere .
One even gave my little dog a biscuit .
It was very refreshing .
`` Deep Peep Show ''
The viewers of the `` Deep Peep Show '' at 15th and M Streets NW have an added attraction -- the view of a fossilized cypress swamp .
Twenty feet below the street level in the excavation of the new motel to be constructed on this site , a black coal-like deposit has been encountered .
This is a black swamp clay in which about one hundred million years ago cypress-like trees were growing .
The fossilized remains of many of these trees are found embedded in the clay .
Some of the stumps are as much as three feet long , but most of them have been flattened by the pressure of the overlying sediments .
Although the wood has been changed to coal , much of it still retains its original cell structure .
In the clay are entombed millions of pollen grains and spores which came from plants growing in the region at the time .
These microfossils indicate the swamp was `` formed during the Lower Cretaceous period when dinosaurs were at their heyday and when the first flowering plants were just appearing .
The 15th Street deposit is not to be confused with the nearby famous Mayflower Hotel cypress swamp on 17th Street reported in The Washington Post , August 2 , 1955 , which was probably formed during the second interglacial period and is therefore much younger .
Working for peace
Recently the secretary of the Friends Committee on National Legislation was interviewed on the air .
While I respect his sincere concern for peace , he made four points that I would like to question .
1 .
He said , `` Let's work for peace instead of protection from aggression '' .
I would ask , `` Why not do both '' ? ?
Military power does not cause war ; ;
war is the result of mistrust and lack of understanding between people .
Are we not late , especially those of us who call ourselves Friends , in doing enough about this lack of understanding ? ?
2 .
As to protection , the speaker disapproved of shelters , pointing out that fallout shelters would not save everyone .
Is this a reason for saving no one ? ?
Would the man with an empty life boat row away from a shipwreck because his boat could not pick up everyone ? ?
3 .
The speaker suggested that the desolation of a post-attack world would be too awful to face .
If the world comes to this , wouldn't it be the very time when courage and American know-how would be needed to help survivors rebuild ? ?
Many of our young people think it would .
4 .
Lastly , the speaker decried our organized program of emergency help calling it `` Civilian Defense '' .
In 1950 , Public Law 920 created Civil Defense ( different from Civilian-groups of World War 2 ) , a responsibility of the Government at all levels to help reduce loss of life and property in disaster , natural or manmade .
Far from creating fear , as the speaker suggests , preparedness -- knowing what to do in an emergency -- gives people confidence .
Civil Defense has far to go and many problems to solve , but is it not in the best spirit of our pioneer tradition to be not only willing , but prepared to care for our own families and help our neighbors in any disaster -- storm , flood , accident or even war ? ?
Pets in apartments
It seems rather peculiar that residents of apartments are denied the right of providing themselves with the protection and companionship of dogs .
I feel that few burglars would be prone to break and enter into someone's apartment if they were met with a good hardy growl that a dog would provide .
In addition , would not the young female public of Washington be afforded a greater degree of protection at night when they are on the streets if they were accompanied by a dog on a leash ? ?
I grant that the dog may not be really protective , based on his training , but if you were roaming the streets looking for a purse to snatch or a young lady to molest , how quick would you be to attack a person strolling with a dog ? ?
I would like to suggest that the landlords and Commissioners get together and consider liberalizing the practice of prohibiting dogs in apartments .
Sidewalk cafes
Use the terraces of the Capitol for a sidewalk cafe ? ?
Could Senator Humphrey be serious in his proposal ? ?
Is nothing in this country more sacred than the tourists' comfort ? ?
Perhaps the idea of sidewalk cafes could be extended .
The Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials are rather bleak .
Why not put a cafe in each so the tourists would not have to travel too far to eat ? ?
Unfortunately the cafes might not make enough money to support themselves during the off season .
As an added suggestion to balance the budget , the Government could sell advertising space on the Washington Monument .
It is visible throughout the city , and men from Madison Ave. would jump at the chance .
Sen. Hubert Humphrey is obviously a man with a soul and heart .
He , like most of us , wants to be able to sit , to contemplate and be moved by the great outdoors .
Let us have more benches and fewer forbidden areas around fountains and gardens .
Let us , like the French , have outdoor cafes where we may relax , converse at leisure and enjoy the passing crowd .
Dissenting views of senators
Two strong dissents from the majority report of the Joint Economic Committee ( May 2 ) by Senators Proxmire and Butler allege that the New Deal fiscal policy of the Thirties did not work .
For a neutral Germany
Soviets said to fear resurgence of German militarism
to the editor of the New York Times :
For the first time in history the entire world is dominated by two large , powerful nations armed with murderous nuclear weapons that make conventional warfare of the past a nullity .
The United States and Soviet Russia have enough nuclear weapons to destroy all nations .
Recent statements by well-known scientists regarding the destructive power of the newest nuclear bombs and the deadly fall-outs should be sufficient to still the voices of those who advocate nuclear warfare instead of negotiations .
President Kennedy was right when he said , `` We shall never negotiate out of fear and we never shall fear to negotiate '' .
I have just returned from a seven-week trip to Europe and the Far East .
It is quite evident that the people of Western Europe are overwhelmingly opposed to participation in a nuclear war .
The fact is that the Italians , French and British know that they have no defense against nuclear bombs .
We have no right to criticize them , as they realize they would be sitting ducks in a nuclear war .
We should stand firmly and courageously for our right to free access into Berlin .
It would be criminal folly if the Communists tried to prevent us .
But there is nothing we can do to stop Soviet Russia from granting de facto recognition to East Germany .
Soviet Russia has been invaded twice by German troops in a generation .
In the last war Russia lost more than ten million killed and its lands and factories were devastated .
Probable agreement
The truth is that Communist Russia fears the resurgence of German militarism .
Berlin is merely being used by Moscow as a stalking horse .
Actually , the Communists , out of fear of a united and armed Germany , would probably be willing to agree to a disarmed Germany that would be united and neutral and have its independence guaranteed by the U.N. .
If the Communists are sincere in wanting a united , neutral and disarmed Germany , it might well be advantageous for the German people in this nuclear age .
It could provide security without cost of armaments and increase German prosperity and lessen taxation .
France and other Western European nations likewise fear a rearmed Germany .
If the German people favor such a settlement we should not oppose Germany following the example of Austria .
President Kennedy has urged a peace race on disarmament that might be called `` Operation Survival '' which has many facets .
Why not make a beginning with a united and disarmed Germany whose neutrality and immunity from nuclear bombing would be guaranteed by the Big Four powers and the United States ? ?
A united Germany , freed of militarism , might be the first step toward disarmament and peace in a terrorized and tortured world .
Meeting U.N. obligations
to the editor of the New York Times :
In your editorial of Sept. 30 `` The Smoldering Congo '' you make the following comment : `` Far too many states are following the Russian example in refusing to pay their assessments .
It is up to the Assembly to take action against them .
They are violating their Charter obligation , the prescribed penalty for which is suspension of membership or expulsion '' .
I would like to quote from the Charter of the United Nations :
`` Article 17 , Section 1 : :
The General Assembly shall consider and approve the budget of the Organization .
`` Section 2 : :
The expenses of the Organization shall be borne by the Members as apportioned by the General Assembly .
`` Article 19 : :
A Member of the United Nations which is in arrears in the payment of its financial contributions to the Organization shall have no vote in the General Assembly if the amount of its arrears equals or exceeds the amount of the contributions due from it for the preceding two full years '' .
The U.S.S.R. and her followers are careful in paying their obligations to the regular budget .
But they refuse , as do the Arab states , to support the United Nations' expenses of maintaining the United Nations Emergency Force in the Middle East as a buffer between Egypt and Israel , and the U.N. troops in the Congo , which expenses are not covered by the regular budget of the United Nations , but by a special budget .
According to the official interpretation of the Charter , a member cannot be penalized by not having the right to vote in the General Assembly for nonpayment of financial obligations to the `` special '' United Nations' budgets , and of course cannot be expelled from the Organization ( which you suggested in your editorial ) , due to the fact that there is no provision in the Charter for expulsion .
To aid international law
Connally amendment's repeal held step toward world order
to the editor of the New York Times :
In your Sept. 27 editorial appraisal of the work of the First Session of the Eighty-seventh Congress you referred to the lack of `` consciousness of destiny in a time of acute national and world peril '' .
Yet your list of things left undone did not include repeal of the Connally amendment to this country's domestic jurisdiction reservation to its Adherence to the Statute of the International Court of Justice .
The Connally amendment says that the United States , rather than the court , shall determine whether a matter is essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of the United States in a case before the World Court to which the United States is a party .
If the case is thus determined by us to be domestic , the court has no jurisdiction .
Since the Connally amendment has the effect of giving the same right to the other party to a dispute with the United States , it also prevents us from using the court effectively .
Yet although the Kennedy Administration , and the Eisenhower Administration before it , have both declared themselves solidly for repeal of the Connally amendment , as contrary to our best interests , no action has yet been taken .
Our `` destiny '' in these perilous times should be to lead strongly in the pursuit of peace , with justice , under law .
To achieve this destiny , acts as well as words are needed -- not only acts that lead to physical strength but also acts that lead to strength based on right doing and respect .
What better affirmative step could be taken to this end than repeal of the Connally amendment -- an act which could expose the United States to no practical risk yet would put an end to our self-judging attitude toward the court , enable us to utilize it , and advance in a tangible way the cause of international law and order ? ?
We believe that the list of vital things left undone to date by the Eighty-seventh Congress should have included repeal by the Senate of the Connally amendment .
For better subway services
to the editor of the New York Times :
Many home-bound subway riders utilizing the Flushing-Main Street express are daily confronted with the sight of the local departing from the Woodside station as their express comes to a stop , leaving them stranded and strained .
To the tens of thousands who must transfer to ride to Seventy-fourth Street and change for the IND , this takes a daily toll of time and temper .
The Transit Authority has recently placed in operation `` hold '' lights at BMT Thirty-ninth and Fifty-ninth Street stations in Brooklyn .
This `` holds '' the local until the express passengers change trains .
Without question , this time and temper saver should be immediately installed at the Woodside station .
Phone service criticized
to the editor of the New York Times :
As a business man I have to use the telephone constantly , from three to four hours a day .
In the last few years the telephone company has managed to automate many areas of their service .
It has not been any great mental effort on my part to keep up with this mechanization which has brought about new ways of dialing .
However , there are still several types of calls that necessitate the use of telephone operators .
I have been absolutely shocked at the ineptness of the young ladies who are servicing person-to-person calls , special long-distance calls , etc. .
Either it is lack of training , lack of proper screening when hiring , lack of management or possibly lack of interest on the part of the telephone company , which does have a Government-blessed monopoly .
Fair-priced funeral
to the editor :
I disagree with the writer who says funeral services should be government-controlled .
The funeral for my husband was just what I wanted and I paid a fair price , far less than I had expected to pay .
But the hospitals and doctors should be .
Helping retarded children
to the editor :
Recently I visited the very remarkable Pilgrim School for retarded children .
Hazel Park donates its recreation center , five days a week , to the school .
There is no charge and no state aid .
Kiwanis , American Legion and other groups donate small sums and the mothers do what they can to bring in dollars for its support .
There are 70 children there and the mothers donate one day a week to the school .
Reading , writing and simple arithmetic are taught along with such crafts as working in brass .
They make beautiful objects .
Enough trading stamps were collected to buy a 12-passenger station wagon .
Southfield schools furnish an old 45-passenger bus ( the heater in which needs repair since some of the children ride a long distance and need the heat ) .
The school is located at 9-1/2 Mile Road , Woodward Heights .
Visitors are welcome to come see what these dedicated mothers can do .
Jobs for Cavanagh
to the editor :
I was surprised at Mayor Miriani's defeat , but perhaps Mayor-elect Cavanagh can accomplish some things that should have been done years ago .
Maybe he can clean out the white elephants in some of the city departments such as welfare , DPW and sanitation .
Negligence in garbage and rubbish collections and alley cleaning is great .
He should put the police back to patrolling and walking the streets at night .
There should be better bus service and all of our city departments and their various branches need a general and complete overhauling .
Our litterbug ordinances are not enforced and I have yet to read of a conviction in a littering case .
Drunken truck drivers in the city departments should be weeded out .
Educate the city employes to give real service to the public .
After all , they are paid by the public , they should be examples .
Church finds news features are helpful
to the editor :
At a recent meeting of the Women's Association of the Trumbull Ave. United Presbyterian Church , considerable use was made of material from The Detroit News on the King James version of the New Testament versus the New English Bible .
Some members of the organization called attention also to the article on hymns of inspiration , the Daily Prayer and Three Minutes A Day , as being very helpful .
We feel that The Detroit News is to be complimented upon arranging for articles on these subjects and we hope that it will continue to provide material along wholesome lines .
Rude youngsters
to the editor :
Thank you for the article by George Sokolsky on the public apathy to impudence .
How old do you have to be to remember when Americans , especially children , were encouraged to be polite ? ?
Why has this form of gentility gone out of American life ? ?
How can we old-fashioned parents , who still feel that adults are due some respect from children , battle the new type of advertising that appears on TV without denying the children the use of television entirely ? ?
Writers of ads must get their inspiration from the attitude of `` modern '' parents they have observed .
From necessity , they are also inspired by the `` hard-sell '' attitude of the sponsor , so , finally , it is the sponsor who must take the responsibility for the good or bad taste of his advertising .
Dunes park advocate
to the editor :
I commend Senator Hart for his brave fight to establish a national park in the dunes area .
Ghost town ? ?
To the editor of the Inquirer :
I just wish to congratulate Inspector Trimmer and his efficient police troops in cleaning the city of those horrible automobiles .
We have now a quiet city , fewer automobiles , less congestion , and fewer retail customers shopping in center city .
Good for Mr. Trimmer .
Maybe he will help to turn our fair city into a `` ghost '' town .
Defends big trucks
to the editor of the Inquirer :
I worked on the Schuylkill Expressway and if it had not been for the big trucks carrying rock and concrete there wouldn't be an Expressway .
Without these massive trucks highways would still be just an idea of the future .
Mr. George Hough ( Oct. 30 ) sounds like a business man who waits until the last minute to leave his home or shop .
The trucks today help pay for this highway .
They try to keep within the speed limits .
Although today's trucks are as fast as passenger cars , a truck driver has to be a sensible person and guard against hogging the road .
Out of school at 14
to the editor of the Inquirer :
The letter writer who suggested saving money by taking kids out of school at 14 should have signed his letter `` simpleton '' instead of `` simplicitude '' .
Such kids only wind up among the unemployed on relief or in jail where they become a much bigger burden .
There are lots of jobs available for trained high school graduates , but not for the dropouts .
What we need is more vocational training in high schools , not more dropouts .
Two wrongs
to the editor of the Inquirer :
I suppose I am missing some elementary point but I honestly cannot see how two wrongs can make a right ! !
I am referring to this country conducting atmosphere tests of nuclear bombs just because Russia is .
Will our bombs be cleaner or will their fallout be less harmful to future generations of children ? ?
If an atom bomb in 1945 could destroy an entire city surely the atomic arsenal we now have is more than adequate to fulfill any military objective required of it .
As I see it , if war starts and we survive the initial attack enough to be able to fight back , the nuclear weapons we now have -- at least the bombs -- can inflict all the demage that is necessary .
Why do we need bigger and better bombs ? ?
I repeat , two wrongs do not make a right .
' we tremble not '
to the editor of the Inquirer :
Everyone should take time to read Martin Luther's Hymn `` A Mighty Fortress Is Our God '' .
Especially the first half of the third verse :
out of the race
to the editor of the Inquirer :
To our everlasting shame , we led the world in this nuclear arms race sixteen years ago when we dropped the first bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki .
Having led the world in this mad race I pray that we may have the wisdom and courage to lead it out of the race .
Are we to be the master of the atom , or will the atom be our master -- and destroy us ! !
Why trust Jagan ? ?
To the editor of the Inquirer :
Just because Cheddi Jagan , new boss of British Guiana , was educated in the United States is no reason to think he isn't a Red .
We have quite a few home-grown specimens of our own .
If we go all gooey over this newest Castro ( until he proves he isn't ) we've got rocks in our heads .
How many times must we get burned before we learn ? ?
Russia and U.N.
to the editor of the Inquirer :
Just to remind the Communists that the bombs dropped on Japan were to end a war not start one .
The war could have continued many years with many thousands killed on both sides .
Intelligent people will admit that bombs and rockets of destruction are frightening whether they fall on Japan , London or Pearl Harbor .
That is why the United Nations was formed so that intelligent men with good intentions from all countries could meet and solve problems without resorting to war .
Russia has showed its intentions by exploding bombs in peace time to try to frighten the world .
Why aren't the Soviets expelled from the U.N. ? ?
Belated tribute
to the editor of the Inquirer :
While `` better late than never '' may have certain merits , the posthumous award of the Nobel Prize for Peace to the late Dag Hammarskjold strikes me as less than a satisfactory expression of appreciation .
Had it been bestowed while the Secretary General of the United Nations was living , unquestionably he would have been greatly encouraged in pursuing a difficult and , in many ways , thankless task .
According to one report , however , Mr. Hammarskjold was considered `` too controversial '' a figure to warrant bestowal of the coveted honor last spring .
Actually , of course , that label `` controversial '' applied only because he was carrying out the mandate given him by the world organization he headed rather than following the dictates of the Soviet Union .
At Khrushchev's door , therefore , can be placed the primary blame but also at fault are those who permitted themselves to be intimidated .
It is well for us to remember that a wreath on a coffin never can atone for flowers withheld while they still can be enjoyed .
As has happened so often in the past , the ability to recognize true greatness has been inadequate and tardy .
' people to people '
to the editor of the Inquirer :
Just a brief note of appreciation to Vice President Johnson and Pakistani camel driver Bashir Ahmad for providing a first-class example of `` people to people '' good will .
If only this could be done more often -- with such heartening results -- many of the earth's `` big problems '' would shrink to the insignificances they really are .
P.S. .
Thanks for your good coverage of Ahmad's visit , too ! !
Expressway answer : East River Drive
to the editor of the Inquirer :
Your continuing editorials concerning the Schuylkill Expressway are valuable ; ;
however , several pertinent considerations deserve recognition .
One of the problems associated with the expressway stems from the basic idea .
We shuffle a large percentage of the cars across the river twice .
They start on the East side of the Schuylkill , have to cross over to the West to use the expressway and cross over again to the East at their destination .
Bridges , tunnels and ferries are the most common methods of river crossings .
Each one of these is , by its nature , a focal point or a point of natural congestion .
We should avoid these congestion points or , putting it another way , keep cars starting and ending on the East side of the river -- on the East side .
This can be accomplished by several logical steps : ( 1 )
Widen the East River Drive at least one lane .
( 2 )
So widen it as to minimize the present curves and eliminate drainage problems .
( 3 )
Paint continuous lane stripes and install overhead directional lights as on our bridges .
One additional lane would then be directional with the traffic burden and effectively increase the traffic carrying capability of the East River Drive by fifty percent .
( 4 )
This could be accomplished without the tremendous expenditures necessitated by the Schuylkill Expressway and without destroying the natural beauty of the East River Drive .
Shadow over Washington Square
to the editor of the Inquirer :
I wish to advocate two drastic changes in Washington Square : 1 .
Take away George Washington's statue .
2 .
Replace it with the statue of one or another of the world's famous dictators .
There's no sense in being reminded of times that were .
Washington Square seems not part of a free land .
It may remind one of Russia , China or East Berlin ; ;
but it can't remind one of the freedom that Washington and the Continental soldiers fought for .
The Fairmount Park Commission will no doubt approve my two proposals , because it is responsible for the change of ideological atmosphere in the Square .
The matter may seem a small thing to some people , I know , but it's a very good start on the road to Totalitarianism The Commission has posted signs in Washington Square saying :
The Feeding of Birds is Prohibited in This square .
Fairmount Park Commission
Does each tentacle of the octopus of City Government reach out and lash at whatever it dislikes or considers an annoyance ? ?
If birds don't belong in a Square or Park , what does ? ?
They are the most beautiful part of that little piece of nature .
The trees are their homes ; ;
but the Commission does not share such sentiments .
The whole official City apparently has an intense hatred toward birds .
Starlings and blackbirds are scared off by canon , from City Hall .
Just a preliminary measure .
If any are left , presently , we may expect to see signs specifically prohibiting the feeding of them too .
The City Government is not united in an all-out , to-the-death drive to stamp out gangs , delinquents , thugs , murderers , rapists , subversives .
Indeed no .
Let every policeman and park guard keep his eye on John and Jane Doe , lest one piece of bread be placed undetected and one bird survive .
Of course , in this small way of forcing the people to watch as tiny and innocent and dependent creatures die because we're afraid to feed them and afraid to protest and say , `` How come ? ?
What's your motive ? ?
Who wants this deed done '' ? ?
-- in this small way do the leaders of a city , or of a nation , inure the masses to watching , or even inflicting , torture and death , upon even their fellow men .
One means to help the birds occurs to me : Let the chimes that ring over Washington Square twice daily , discontinue any piece of music but one .
Let them offer on behalf of those creatures whose melody has been the joy of mankind since time began , the hymn `` Abide With Me '' .
We will know , and He will know , to whom it is rendered , what the birds would ask :
not push-ups but stand-ups
to the editor of the Inquirer :
There is a trend today to bemoan the fact that Americans are too `` soft '' .
Unfortunately , those who would remedy our `` softness '' seek to do so with calisthenics .
They are working on the wrong part of our anatomy .
It is not our bodies but our hearts and heads that have grown too soft .
Ashamed of our wealth and power , afraid of so-called world opinion and addicted to peace , we have allowed our soft-heartedness to lead to soft-headed policies .
When we become firm enough to stand for those ideals which we know to be right , when we become hard enough to refuse to aid nations which do not permit self-determination , when we become strong enough to resist any more drifts towards socialism in our own Nation , when we recognize that our enemy is Communism not war , and when we realize that concessions to Communists do not insure peace or freedom , then , and only then will we no longer be `` soft '' .
America doesn't need to `` push-up '' , she needs to stand up ! !
Disputes Stans column business scandal views
to the editor :
The new column by Maurice Stans regarding business scandals , is fair and accurate in most respects and his solution to the problem has some merit .
However , he states unequivocally `` the scandals in business are far less significant than the scandals in labor '' .
I must , in fairness , take issue with his premise , primarily because the so-called scandals in labor unions were very much connected with business scandals .
The area most prominently commented on during the McClellan hearings had to do with `` sweetheart contracts '' .
These arrangements would have been impossible if the business community was truly interested in the welfare of its employes .
A sweetheart arrangement can come about as often by employers doing the corrupting as by unscrupulous labor leaders demanding tribute .
Anyone familiar with the details of the McClellan hearings must at once realize that the sweetheart arrangements augmented employer profits far more than they augmented the earnings of the corruptible labor leaders .
Further , it should be recalled that some very definite steps were taken by Congress to combat corruption in the labor movement by its passage of the Landrum-Griffin Act .
Escalation unto death
The nuclear war is already being fought , except that the bombs are not being dropped on enemy targets -- not yet .
It is being fought , moreover , in fairly close correspondence with the predictions of the soothsayers of the think factories .
They predicted escalation , and escalation is what we are getting .
The biggest nuclear device the United States has exploded measured some 15 megatons , although our B-52s are said to be carrying two 20-megaton bombs apiece .
Some time ago , however , Mr. Khrushchev decided that when bigger bombs were made , the Soviet Union would make them .
He seems to have at least a few 30- and 50-megaton bombs on hand , since we cannot assume that he has exploded his entire stock .
And now , of course , the hue and cry for counter-escalation is being raised on our side .
Khrushchev threatens us with a 100-megaton bomb ? ?
So be it -- then we must embark on a crash program for 200-megaton bombs of the common or hydrogen variety , and neutron bombs , which do not exist but are said to be the coming thing .
So escalation proceeds , ad infinitum or , more accurately , until the contestants begin dropping them on each other instead of on their respective proving grounds .
What is needed , Philip Morrison writes in The Cornell Daily Sun ( October 26 ) is a discontinuity .
The escalation must end sometime , and probably quite soon .
`` Only a discontinuity can end it '' , Professor Morrison writes .
`` The discontinuity can either be that of war to destruction , or that of diplomatic policy '' .
Morrison points out that since our country is more urbanized than the Soviet Union or Red China , it is the most vulnerable of the great powers -- Europe of course must be written off out of hand .
He feels , therefore , that to seek a discontinuity in the arms policy of the United States is the least risky path our government can take .
His proposal is opposed to that of Richard Nixon , Governor Rockefeller , past chairmen Strauss and McCone of the Atomic Energy Commission , Dr. Edward Teller and those others now enjoying their hour of triumph in the exacerbation of the cold war .
These gentlemen are calling for a resumption of testing -- in the atmosphere -- on the greatest possible scale , all in the name of national security .
Escalation is their first love and their last ; ;
they will be faithful unto death .
Capable as their minds may be in some directions , these guardians of the nation's security are incapable of learning , or even of observing .
If this capacity had not failed them , they would see that their enemy has made a disastrous miscalculation .
He has gained only one thing -- he has exploded a 50-megaton bomb and he probably has rockets with sufficient thrust to lob it over the shorter intercontinental ranges .
But if his purpose was to inspire terror , his action could hardly have miscarried more obviously .
Not terror , but anger and resentment have been the general reaction outside the Soviet sphere .
Khrushchev himself is reported to be concerned by the surge of animosity he has aroused , yet our own nuclear statesmen seem intent on following compulsively in his footsteps .
When one powerful nation strives to emulate the success of another , it is only natural .
Thus , when the Russians sent up their first sputnik , American chagrin was human enough , and American determination to put American satellites into orbit was perfectly understandable .
But to imitate an opponent when he has made the mistake of his life would be a new high in statesmanlike folly .
The tide turns
When East Germans fled to the West by the thousands , paeans of joy rose from the throats of Western publicists .
They are less vocal now , when it is the West Berliners who are migrating .
The flood is not as great -- only 700 a week according to one apparently conservative account -- but it is symptomatic .
West Berlin morale is low and , in age distribution , the situation is unfavorable .
Nearly 18 per cent of West Berlin's 2,200,000 residents are sixty-five or older , only 12.8 per cent are under fifteen .
R. H. S. Crossman , M.P. , writing in The Manchester Guardian , states that departures from West Berlin are now running at the rate not of 700 , but of 1,700 a week , and applications to leave have risen to 1,900 a week .
The official statistics show that 60 per cent are employed workers or independent professional people .
Whole families are moving and removal firms are booked for months ahead .
The weekly loss is partly counterbalanced by 500 arrivals each week from West Germany , but the hard truth , says Crossman , is that `` The closing off of East Berlin without interference from the West and with the use only of East German , as distinct from Russian , troops was a major Communist victory , which dealt West Berlin a deadly , possibly a fatal , blow .
The gallant half-city is dying on its feet '' .
Another piece of evidence appears in a dispatch from Bonn in The Observer ( London ) .
Mark Arnold-Foster writes : `` People are leaving ( West Berlin ) because they think it is dying .
They are leaving so fast that the president of the West German Employers' Federation issued an appeal this week to factory workers in the West to volunteer for six months' front-line work in factories in West Berlin .
Berlin's resilience is amazing , but if it has to hire its labor in the West the struggle will be hard indeed '' .
The handwriting is on the wall .
The only hope for West Berlin lies in a compromise which will bring down the wall and reunite the city .
State Department officials refusing to show their passes at the boundary , and driving two blocks into East Berlin under military escort , will not avail .
Tanks lined up at the border will be no more helpful .
The materials for compromise are at hand : The Nation , Walter Lippmann and other sober commentators ( see Alan Clark on p. 367 ) have spelled them out again and again .
A compromise will leave both sides without the glow of triumph , but it will save Berlin .
Or the city can be a graveyard monument to Western intransigence , if that is what the West wants .
Vacancy
The removal of Stalin's body from the mausoleum he shared with Lenin to less distinguished quarters in the Kremlin wall is not unprecedented in history .
It is , in fact , a relatively mild chastisement of the dead .
A British writer , Richard Haestier , in a book , Dead Men Tell Tales , recalls that in the turmoil preceding the French Revolution the body of Henry 4 , , who had died nearly 180 years earlier , was torn to pieces by a mob .
And in England , after the Restoration , the body of Cromwell was disinterred and hanged at Tyburn .
The head was then fixed on a pole at Westminster , and the rest of the body was buried under the gallows .
Contemplating these posthumous punishments , Stalin should not lose all hope .
In 1899 , Parliament erected a statue to Cromwell in Westminster , facing Whitehall and there , presumably , he still stands .
Nikita Khrushchev , however , has created yet another problem for himself .
The Lenin tomb is obviously adequate for double occupancy , Moscow is a crowded city , and the creed of Communism deplores waste .
Who will take Stalin's place beside Lenin ? ?
There is Karl Marx , of course , buried in London .
The Macmillan government might be willing to let him go , but he has been dead seventy-eight years and even the Soviet morticians could not make him look presentable .
Who , then , is of sufficient stature to lodge with Lenin ? ?
Who but Nikita himself ? ?
Since he has just shown who is top dog , he may not be ready to receive this highest honor in the gift of the Soviet people .
Besides , he can hardly avoid musing on the instability of death which , what with exhumations and rehabilitations , seems to match that of life .
Suppose he did lie beside Lenin , would it be permanent ? ?
If some future Khrushchev decided to rake up the misdeeds of his revered predecessor , would not the factory workers pass the same resolutions applauding his dispossession ? ?
When a man is laid to rest , he is entitled to stay put .
If Nikita buys a small plot in some modest rural cemetery , everyone will understand .
U Thant of Burma
The appointment of U Thant of Burma as the U.N.'s Acting Secretary General -- at this writing , the choice appears to be certain -- offers further proof that in politics it is more important to have no influential enemies than to have influential friends .
Mongi Slim of Tunisia and Frederick Boland of Ireland were early favorites in the running , but France didn't like the former and the Soviet Union would have none of the latter .
With the neutralists maintaining pressure for one of their own to succeed Mr. Hammarskjold , U Thant emerged as the only possible candidate unlikely to be waylaid by a veto .
What is interesting is that his positive qualifications for the post were revealed only as a kind of tail to his candidacy .
In all the bitter in-fighting , the squabbles over election procedures , the complicated numbers game that East and West played on the assistant secretaries' theme , the gentleman from Burma showed himself both as a man of principle and a skilled diplomat .
He has , moreover , another qualification which augurs well for the future .
He is a Buddhist , which means that to him peace and the sanctity of human life are not only religious dogma , but a profound and unshakable Weltanschauung .
U Thant of course , will hold office until the spring of 1963 , when Mr. Hammarskjold's term would have come to an end .
Whether the compromises -- on both sides -- that made possible the interim appointment can then be repeated remains to be seen .
Mr. Khrushchev's demand for a troika is dormant , not dead ; ;
the West may or not remain satisfied with the kind of neutralism that U Thant represents .
In a sense , the showdown promised by Mr. Hammarskjold's sudden and tragic death has been avoided ; ;
no precedents have been set as yet ; ;
structurally , the U.N. is still fluid , vulnerable to the pressures that its new and enlarged membership are bringing to bear upon it .
But at least the pessimists who believed that the world organization had plunged to its death in that plane crash in the Congo have been proved wrong .
To the hills , girls
.
No one who has studied the radical Right can suppose that words are their sole staple in trade .
These are mentalities which crave action -- and they are beginning to get it , as Messrs. Salsich and Engh report on page 372 .
Even in areas where political connotations are ( deliberately ? ?
) left vague , the spirit of vigilantism is spreading .
Friends , a picture magazine distributed by Chevrolet dealers , describes a paramilitary organization of employees of the Gulf Telephone Company at Foley , Alabama .
`` If the day should ever come that foreign invaders swarm ashore along the Gulf Coast '' , the account reads , `` they can count on heavy opposition from a group of commando-trained telephone employees -- all girls .
Heavily armed and mobilized as a fast-moving Civil Defense outfit , 23 operators and office personnel stand ready to move into action at a minute's notice '' .
According to Friends , the unit was organized by John Snook , a former World War 2 , commando who is vice president and general manager of the telephone company .
The girls , very fetching in their uniforms , are shown firing rockets from a launcher mounted on a dump truck ; ;
they are also trained with carbines , automatic weapons , pistols , rifles and other such ladies' accessories .
This may be opera bouffe now , but it will become more serious should the cold war mount in frenzy .
The country is committed to the doctrine of security by military means .
The doctrine has never worked ; ;
it is not working now .
The official military establishment can only threaten to use its nuclear arms ; ;
it cannot bring them into actual play .
A more dangerous formula for national frustration cannot be imagined .
As the civic temper rises , the more naive citizens begin to play soldier -- but the guns are real .
Soon they will begin to hunt down the traitors they are assured are in our midst .
All false gods resemble Moloch , at least in the early phases of their careers , so it would be unreasonable to expect any form of idol-worship to become widespread without the accompaniment of human sacrifice .
But there is reason in all things , and in this country the heathenish cult of the motor-car is exceeding all bounds in its demands .
The annual butchery of 40,000 American men , women and children to satiate its blood-lust is excessive ; ;
a quota of 25,000 a year would be more than sufficient .
No other popular idol is accorded even that much grace .
If the railroads , for example , regularly slaughtered 25,000 passengers each year , the high priests of the cult would have cause to tremble for their personal safety , for such a holocaust would excite demands for the hanging of every railroad president in the United States .
But by comparison with the railroad , the motor car is a relatively new object of popular worship , so it is too much to hope that it may be brought within the bounds of civilized usage quickly and easily .
Yet it is plainly time to make a start , and to be effective the first move should be highly dramatic , without being fanatical .
Here , then , is what Swift would have called a modest proposal by way of a beginning .
From next New Year's Day let us keep careful account of each successive fatality on the highways , publicizing it on all media of communication .
To avoid suspicion of bigotry , let the hand of vengeance be stayed until the meat-wagon has picked up the twenty-five thousandth corpse ; ;
but let the twenty-five thousand and first butchery be the signal for the arrest of the 50 state highway commissioners .
Then let the whole lot be hanged in a public mass execution on July 4 , 1963 .
The scene , of course , should be nine miles northwest of Centralia , Illinois , the geographical center of population according to the census .
A special grandstand , protected by awnings from the midsummer sun of Illinois , should be erected for occupancy by honored guests , who should include the ambassadors of all those new African nations as yet not quite convinced that the United States is thoroughly civilized .
The band should play the Rogues' March as a processional , switching to `` Hail Columbia , Happy Land '' ! !
As the trap is sprung .
Independence Day is the appropriate date as a symbolical reminder of the American article of faith that governments are instituted among men to secure to them certain inalienable rights , the first of which is life , and when any government becomes subversive of that end , it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it .
The highway system is an agency of government , and when it grinds up 40,000 Americans every year the government is destroying its own taxpayers , which is obviously a silly thing for any government to do .
Hanging the responsible officials would not abolish the government , but would emphasize its accountability for the lives of its individual citizens , which would certainly alter it , and definitely for the better .
Moreover , the salubrious effects would not be exclusively political , but at least partially , and perhaps primarily social .
It would challenge sharply not the cult of the motor car itself but some of its ancillary beliefs and practices -- for instance , the doctrine that the fulfillment of life consists in proceeding from hither to yon , not for any advantage to be gained by arrival but merely to avoid the cardinal sin of stasis , or , as it is generally termed , staying put .
True , the adherents of staying put are now reduced to a minor , even a miniscule sect , and their credo , `` Home-keeping hearts are happiest '' , is as disreputable as Socinianism .
Nonetheless , although few in number they are a stubborn crew , as tenacious of life as the Hardshell Baptists , which suggests that there is some kind of vital principle embodied in their faith .
Perhaps there is more truth than we are wont to admit in the conviction of that ornament of Tarheelia , Robert Ruark's grandfather , who was persuaded that the great curse of the modern world is `` all this gallivantin' '' .
In any event , the yearly sacrifice of 40,000 victims is a hecatomb too large to be justified by the most ardent faith .
Somehow our contemporary Moloch must be induced to see reason .
Since appeals to morality , to humanity , and to sanity have had such small effect , perhaps our last recourse is the deterrent example .
If we make it established custom that whenever butchery on the highways grows excessive , say beyond 25,000 per annum , then somebody is going to hang , it follows that the more eminent the victim , the more impressive the lesson .
To hang 50 Governors might be preferable except that they are not directly related to the highways ; ;
so , all things considered , the highway commissioners would seem to be elected .
As the new clouds of radioactive fallout spread silently and invisibly around the earth , the Soviet Union stands guilty of a monstrous crime against the human race .
But the guilt is shared by the United States , Britain and France , the other members of the atomic club .
Until Moscow resumed nuclear testing last September 1 , the US and UK had released more than twice as much radiation into the atmosphere as the Russians , and the fallout from the earlier blasts is still coming down .
As it descends , the concentration of radioactivity builds up in the human body ; ;
for a dose of radiation is not like a flu virus which causes temporary discomfort and then dies .
The effect of radiation is cumulative over the years -- and on to succeeding generations .
So , while we properly inveigh against the new poisoning , history is not likely to justify the pose of righteousness which some in the West were so quick to assume when Mr. Khrushchev made his cynical and irresponsible threat .
Shock , dismay and foreboding for future generations were legitimate reactions ; ;
a holier-than-thou sermon was not .
On October 19 , after the Soviets had detonated at least 20 nuclear devices , Ambassador Stevenson warned the UN General Assembly that this country , in `` self protection '' , might have to resume above-ground tests .
More recently , the chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg , `` admitted '' to a news conference in Las Vegas , Nevada , that the US might fall behind Russia ( he apparently meant in weapons development ) if the Soviets continue to test in the atmosphere while we abstain .
The trial balloons are afloat .
All of which makes it more imperative than ever that the biological and genetic effects of fallout be understood .
But for the average citizen , unfortunately , this is one of science's worst-marked channels , full of tricky currents and unknown depths .
The scientists , in and out of government , do not agree on some of the most vital points , at least publicly .
On the one hand , the Public Health Service declared as recently as October 26 that present radiation levels resulting from the Soviet shots `` do not warrant undue public concern '' or any action to limit the intake of radioactive substances by individuals or large population groups anywhere in the Aj .
But the PHS conceded that the new radioactive particles `` will add to the risk of genetic effects in succeeding generations , and possibly to the risk of health damage to some people in the United States '' .
Then it added : `` It is not possible to determine how extensive these ill effects will be -- nor how many people will be affected '' .
Having hedged its bets in this way , PHS apparently decided it would be possible to make some sort of determination after all : `` At present radiation levels , and even at somewhat higher levels , the additional risk is slight and very few people will be affected '' .
Then , to conclude on an indeterminate note : `` Nevertheless , if fallout increased substantially , or remained high for a long time , it would become far more important as a potential health hazard in this country and throughout the world '' .
Dr. Linus Pauling , a Nobel Prize winner in chemistry , has been less ambiguous , whether you choose to agree with him or not .
After declaring , in an article last month in Frontier Magazine , that the Russian testing `` carries with it the possibility of the most tragic consequences of any action in the history of the world '' , he gave this estimate of the biologic and genetic consequences if the new Soviet shots totaled 200 megatons :
The damage to human germ plasm would be such that in the next few generations 160,000 children around the world would be born with gross physical or mental defects .
Long-lived carbon-14 from the fusion process would cause four million embryonic , neonatal or childhood deaths and stillbirths over the next 20 generations , and between 200,000 and one million human beings now living would have their lives cut short by radiation-produced diseases such as leukemia .
Most of these would be in the Northern Hemisphere , where the fallout is concentrating .
Pauling's estimate of 200 megatons yield from the present series of Russian tests will probably turn out to be too high , but a total of 100 megatons is a distinct possibility .
The lack of scientific unanimity on the effects of radiation is due in part to insufficient data covering large population groups , from which agreed-on generalizations could be drawn .
But more than one conscientious researcher has been inhibited from completely frank discussion of the available evidence by the less excusable fact that fallout has been made a political issue as well as a scientific problem .
Its dangerous effects have been downgraded to the public by some who believe national security requires further testing .
An illustration of this attitude is found in John A. McCone's letter to Dr. Thomas Lauritsen , reported in a note elsewhere in this issue of The New Republic .
To this day the Atomic Energy Commission shies away from discussing the health aspects of fallout .
A recent study on radiation exposure by the AEC's division of biology and medicine stated : `` The question of the biological effect of ( radiation ) doses is not considered '' herein .
Of course , the AEC is in a bind now .
If it comes down too hard on the potential dangers of fallout , it will box the President on resuming atmospheric tests .
So the Commission's announcements of the new Soviet shots have been confined to one or two bleak sentences , with the fission yield usually left vague .
Now , of course , that the Russians are the nuclear villains , radiation is a nastier word than it was in the mid , when the US was testing in the atmosphere .
The prevailing official attitude then seemed to be that fallout , if not exactly good for you , might not be much worse than a bad cold .
After a nuclear blast , one bureaucrat suggested in those halcyon days , about all you had to do was haul out the broom and sweep off your sidewalks and roof .
Things aren't that simple anymore .
Yet if Washington gets too indignant about Soviet fallout , it will have to do a lot of fast footwork if America decides it too must start pushing up the radiation count .
How much fallout will we get ? ?
As of October 25 , the AEC had reported 24 shots in the new Soviet series , 12 of them in a megaton range , including a super bomb with a yield of 30 to 50 megatons ( the equivalent of 30 million to 50 million tons of TNT ) ; ;
and President Kennedy indicated there were one or two more than those reported .
Assuming the lower figure for the big blast and one shot estimated by the Japanese at 10 megatons , a conservative computation is that the 24 announced tests produced a total yield of at least 60 megatons .
Some government scientists say privately that the figure probably is closer to 80 megatons , and that the full 50-megaton bomb that Khrushchev mentioned may still be detonated .
If the new Soviet series has followed the general pattern of previous Russian tests , the shots were roughly half fission and half fusion , meaning a fission yield of 30 to 40 megatons thus far .
To this must be added the 90 to 92 megatons of fission yield produced between the dawn of the atomic age in 1945 and the informal three-power test moratorium that began in November , 1958 .
Resuming atmospheric tests
One of the inescapable realities of the Cold War is that it has thrust upon the West a wholly new and historically unique set of moral dilemmas .
The first dilemma was the morality of nuclear warfare itself .
That dilemma is as much with us as ever .
The second great dilemma has been the morality of nuclear testing , a dilemma which has suddenly become acute because of the present series of Soviet tests .
When this second dilemma first became obvious -- during the mid to late '50's -- the United States appeared to have three choices .
It could have unilaterally abandoned further testing on the grounds of the radiation hazard to future generations .
It could have continued testing to the full on the grounds that the radiation danger was far less than the danger of Communist world domination .
Or it could have chosen to find -- by negotiation -- some way of stopping the tests without loss to national security .
This third choice was in fact made .
With the resumption of Soviet testing and their intransigence at the Geneva talks , however , the hope that this third choice would prove viable has been shaken .
Once again , the United States must choose .
And once again , the choices are much the same .
Only this time around the conditions are different and the choice is far harder .
The first choice , abandoning tests entirely , would not only be unpopular domestically , but would surely be exploited by the Russians .
The second choice , full testing , has become even more risky just because the current Soviet tests have already dangerously contaminated the atmosphere .
The third choice , negotiation , presupposes , as Russian behavior demonstrates , a great deal of wishful thinking to make it appear reasonable .
We take the position , however , that the third choice still remains the only sane one open to us .
It is by no stretch of the imagination a happy choice and the arguments against it as a practical strategy are formidable .
Its primary advantage is that it is a moral choice ; ;
one which , should it fail , will not have contaminated the conscience .
That is the contamination we most fear .
Leaving aside the choice of unilateral cessation of tests as neither sane nor clearly moral , the question must arise as to why resumption of atmospheric tests on our part would not be a good choice .
For that is the one an increasingly large number of prominent Americans are now proposing .
In particular , Governor Nelson Rockefeller has expressed as cogently and clearly as anyone the case for a resumption of atmospheric tests .
Speaking recently in Miami , Governor Rockefeller said that `` to assure the sufficiency of our own weapons in the face of the recent Soviet tests , we are now clearly compelled to conduct our own nuclear tests '' .
Taking account of the fact that such a move on our part would be unpopular in world opinion , he argued that the responsibility of the United States is `` to do , confidently and firmly , not what is popular , but what is right '' .
What was missing in the Governor's argument , as in so many similar arguments , was a premise which would enable one to make the ethical leap from what might be militarily desirable to what is right .
The possibility , as he asserted , that the Russians may get ahead of us or come closer to us because of their tests does not supply the needed ethical premise -- unless , of course , we have unwittingly become so brutalized that nuclear superiority is now taken as a moral demand .
Besides the lack of an adequate ethical dimension to the Governor's case , one can ask seriously whether our lead over the Russians in quality and quantity of nuclear weapons is so slight as to make the tests absolutely necessary .
Recent statements by the President and Defense Department spokesmen have , to the contrary , assured us that our lead is very great .
Unless the Administration and the Defense Department have been deceiving us , the facts do not support the assertion that we are `` compelled '' to resume atmospheric testing .
It is perfectly conceivable that a resumption of atmospheric tests may , at some point in the future , be necessary and even justifiable .
But a resumption does not seem justifiable now .
What we need to realize is that the increasingly great contamination of the atmosphere by the Soviet tests had radically increased our own moral obligations .
We now have to think not only of our national security but also of the future generations who will suffer from any tests we might undertake .
This is an ethical demand which cannot be evaded or glossed over by talking exclusively of weapon superiority or even of the evil of Communism .
Too often in the past Russian tactics have been used to justify like tactics on our part .
There ought to be a point beyond which we will not allow ourselves to go regardless of what Russia does .
The refusal to resume atmospheric testing would be a good start .
Ecumenical hopes
when his Holiness Pope John 23 , first called for an Ecumenical Council , and at the same time voiced his yearning for Christian unity , the enthusiasm among Catholic and Protestant ecumenicists was immediate .
With good reason it appeared that a new day was upon divided Christendom .
But as the more concrete plans for the work of the Council gradually became known , there was a rather sharp and abrupt disappointment on all sides .
The Council we now know will concern itself directly only with the internal affairs of the Church .
As it has turned out , however , the excessive enthusiasm in the first instance and the loss of hope in the second were both wrong responses .
Two things have happened in recent months to bring the Council into perspective : each provides a basis for renewed hope and joy .
First of all , it is now known that Pope John sees the renewal and purification of the Church as an absolutely necessary step toward Christian unity .
Far from being irrelevant to the ecumenical task , the Pontiff believes that a revivified Church is required in order that the whole world may see Catholicism in the best possible light .
Equally significant , Pope John has said that Catholics themselves bear some responsibility for Christian disunity .
A major aim of the Council will be to remove as far as possible whatever in the Church today stands in the way of unity .
Secondly , a whole series of addresses and actions by the Pope and by others show that concern for Christian unity is still very much alive and growing within the Church .
The establishment , by the Holy Father , of a permanent Secretariat for Christian Unity in 1960 was the most dramatic mark of this concern .
The designation of five Catholic theologians to attend the World Council of Churches assembly in New Delhi as `` official '' observers reverses the Church's earlier stand .
The public appeal by the new Vatican Secretary of State , Cardinal Cicognani , for renewed efforts toward Eastern and Western reunion was still another remarkable act .
Nor can one forget Pope John's unprecedented meeting with the Archbishop of Canterbury .
Augustin Cardinal Bea , the director of the Secretariate for Christian Unity , has expressed as directly as anyone the new spirit that pervades the Church's stance toward the Protestant and Orthodox Churches .
Noting all the difficulties that stand in the way of reunion , he has said that they ought not to discourage anyone .
For discouragement , or the temptation to abandon our efforts , `` would show that one placed excessive trust in purely human means without thinking of the omnipotence of God , the irresistible efficacy of prayer , the action of Christ or the power of the Divine Spirit '' .
Can any Christian fail to respond to these words ? ?
The budget deficit
the administration's official budget review , which estimates a 6.9 billion dollar deficit for the current fiscal year , isn't making anyone happy .
Certainly it isn't making the President happy , and he has been doing his apologetic best to explain how the budget got into its unbalanced condition , how he intends to economize wherever he can and how he hopes to do better next year .
We sympathize with Mr. Kennedy , but we feel bound to say that his budget review doesn't please us either , although for very different reasons .
Furthermore , we find his defense of the unbalanced budget more dismaying than reassuring .
In the first place , a large part of the discrepancy between President Eisenhower's estimate of a 1.5 billion dollar surplus for the same period and the new estimate of an almost seven billion dollar deficit is the result of the outgoing President's farewell gift of a political booby-trap to his successor .
The Eisenhower budget was simultaneously inadequate in its provisions and yet extravagant in its projections of revenue to be received .
The rest of the deficit is also easily understood .
Four billion dollars of the spending increase is for defense , an expenditure necessitated by the penny-wise policies of the Eisenhhower Administration , quite apart from the recent crises in Berlin and elsewhere .
Four hundred million dollars of the increase is for the expanded space program , a responsibility similarly neglected by Mr. Eisenhower .
The farm program will cost an additional 1.5 billion , because of unusual weather factors , the Food for Peace program and other new measures .
Anti-recession programs -- aid for the unemployed , their children and for depressed areas -- account for only 900 million of the 6.9 billion dollar deficit .
Our complaint is that in many crucial areas the Kennedy programs are not too large but too small , most seriously in regard to the conventional arms build-up and in aid and welfare measures .
And yet Mr. Kennedy persists in trying to mollify the intransigents of the right with apologies and promises of `` tightening up '' and `` economizing '' .
We wish the President would remember that `` fiscal responsibility '' was the battle-cry of the party that lost the election .
The party that won used to say something about a New Frontier .
Ethics and peace
introduction of the `` dialogue '' principle proved strikingly effective at the thirty-fourth annual meeting of the Catholic Association for International Peace in Washington the last weekend in October .
Two of the principal addresses were delivered by prominent Protestants , and when the speaker was a Catholic , one `` discussant '' on the dais tended to be of another religious persuasion .
Several effects were immediately evident .
Sessions devoted to `` Ethics and Foreign Policy Trends '' , `` Moral Principle and Political Judgment '' , `` Christian Ethics in the Cold War '' and related subjects proved to be much livelier under this procedure than if Catholics were merely talking to themselves .
Usually questions from the floor were directed to the non-Catholic speaker or discussion leader .
In the earlier sessions there was plentiful discussion on the natural law , which Dr. William V. O'Brien of Georgetown University , advanced as the basis for widely acceptable ethical judgments on foreign policy .
That Aristotelean-Thomistic principle experienced a thorough going-over from a number of the participants , but in the end the concept came to reassert itself .
Speakers declared that Protestants often make use of it , if , perhaps , by some other name .
A Lebanese Moslem told about its existence and application in the Islamic tradition as the `` divine law '' , while a C.A.I.P. member who has been working in close association with delegates of the new U.N. nations told of its widespread recognition on the African continent .
The impression was unmistakable that , whatever one may choose to call it , natural law is a functioning generality with a certain objective existence .
Another question that arose was the nature of the dialogue itself .
The stimulus from the confrontation of philosophical systems involving certain differences was undeniable .
It was expected that the comparison of different approaches to ethics would produce a better grasp of each other's positions and better comprehension of one's own .
But a realization that each group has much of substance to learn from the other also developed , and a strong conviction grew that each had insights and dimensions to contribute to ethically acceptable solutions of urgent political issues .
One effect of the spirited give-and-take of these discussions was to focus attention on practical applications and the necessity of being armed with the facts : knowledge of the destructive force of even the tiniest `` tactical '' atomic weapon would have a bearing on judgments as to the advisability of its use -- to defend Berlin , for example ; ;
the pervasive influence of ideology on our political judgments needs to be recognized and taken into due account ; ;
it is necessary to perceive the extent of foreign aid demanded by the Christian imperative .
Everywhere I went in Formosa I asked the same question .
I was searching for an accent of self-delusion or , even , of hypocrisy .
I never found it among any of the Chinese with whom I spoke , though granted they were , almost all , members of the official family who , presumably , harbor official thoughts .
But I questioned , also , professional soldiers , who would not easily be hypnotized by a septuagenarian's dreamy irredentism .
Their answer was : it can be done , and we will do it .
And then I put the question as pointedly as I could directly to Chiang Kai-shek : `` In America '' , I said , `` practically no one believes that you subjectively intend to re-enter the Mainland .
What evidence is there of an objective kind that in fact your government proposes to do just that , and that it can be done '' ? ?
He smiled .
( He always smiles -- at least at visitors , I gather .
He smiled also at a British bloke seated next to me , who asked the most asinine questions .
I recalled sympathetically the Duke's complaint in Browning's `` My Last Duchess '' .
) He smiled , and said a word or two to the interpreter , who turned to me , `` The President wonders where you are going after you leave Taipei '' ? ?
That , I smarted , is a royal rebuff if ever there was one .
I answered the routine question about my itinerary , rather coolly .
Chiang spoke again , this time at greater length .
`` The President says '' , the translator came in , `` that the reason he asked you where you were going is because he hoped you would be visiting other areas in Southeast Asia , and that everywhere you went , you would seek the answer to your question .
He says that if he were to express to you , once again , his own profound determination to go to the Mainland , and his faith that that return is feasible , he would merely sound redundant .
So you yourself must seek these objective data , and come to your own conclusions .
Any information we have here in Taiwan is at your disposal '' .
Fair enough .
What are the relevant data ? ?
For every person on Taiwan , there are sixty in Mainland China .
If the raw population figures are crucially relevant , then it is idle to think of liberation , as idle as to suppose that Poland might liberate Russia .
Relative military manpower ? ?
Less than 60-1 , but at least 6-1 .
The estimates vary widely on the strength of the Chinese army .
Say four million .
The armed forces of Taiwan are at a working strength of about 450,000 , though a reserve potential twice that high is contemplated .
Skill ? ?
Training ? ?
Morale ? ?
It is generally conceded that the Formosan air force is the best by far in Asia , and the army the best trained .
The morale is very high .
Even so , it adds up to impossible odds , except that the question arises , On whose side would the Mainland Chinese army fight ? ?
The miserable people of China , the largest cast ever conscripted to enact an ideological passion play , cannot themselves resist overtly .
They think , perforce , of physical survival : everything else is secondary .
But the army which Mao continues to feed well , where are its sympathies ? ?
The psychological strategists in Taiwan stress the great sense of family , cultivated in China over thousands of years .
It has not been extirpated by ten years of Communist depersonalization .
Every soldier in the army has , somewhere , relatives who are close to starvation .
The soldiers themselves cannot stage a successful rebellion , it is assumed : but will their discontent spread to the officer class ? ?
The immediate families of the generals and the admirals are well fed : a despot does not economize on his generals .
But there are the cousins and aunts and nephews .
Their privations are almost beyond endurance .
In behalf of what ? ?
Leninism-Marxism , as understood by Exegete Mao .
To whom will the generals stay loyal ? ?
There is little doubt if they had a secret ballot , they would vote for food for their family , in place of ideological purity out on the farm .
It is another question whether `` they '' -- or a single general , off in a corner of China , secure for a few ( galvanizing ? ?
) days at least from instant retaliation -- will defy the Party .
But the disposition to rebel is most definitely there .
But there must be a catalytic pressure .
The military in Taiwan believe that the Communists have made two mistakes , which , together , may prove fatal .
The first was the commune program , which will ensure agricultural poverty for years .
The family is largely broken up ; ;
and where it is not , it is left with no residue , and the social meaning of this is enormous .
For it is the family that , in China , has always provided social security for the indigent , the sick , the down-and-out members of the clan .
Now the government must do that ; ;
but the government is left with no reserve granary , under the agricultural system it has ordained .
Thus the government simultaneously undertook the vast burden of social security which had traditionally been privately discharged , and created a national scarcity which has engendered calamitous problems of social security .
The second mistake is Tibet .
Tibet has historically served China as a buffer state .
A friendly state , sometimes only semi-independent , but never hostile .
China never tried to integrate Tibet by extirpating the people's religion and institutions .
Red China is trying to do this , and she is not likely ever to succeed .
Tibet is too vast , the terrain is too difficult .
Tibet may bleed China as Algeria is bleeding France .
These continuing pressures , social , economic and military , are doing much to keep China in a heightening state of tension .
The imposition of yet another pressure , a strong one , from the outside , might cause it to snap .
The planners in Taiwan struck me as realistic men .
They know that they must depend heavily on factors outside their own control .
First and foremost , they depend on the inhuman idiocies of the Communist regime .
On these they feel they can rely .
Secondly , they depend on America's `` moral cooperation '' when the crucial moment arrives .
They hope that if history vouchsafes the West another Budapest , we will receive the opportunity gladly .
I remarked jocularly to the President that the future of China would be far more certain if he would invite a planeload of selected American Liberals to Quemoy on an odd day .
He affected ( most properly ) not to understand my point .
But he -- and all of China -- wears the scars of American indecisiveness , and he knows what an uncertain ally we are .
We have been grand to Formosa itself -- lots of aid , and , most of the time , a policy of support for the offshore islands .
But our outlook has been , and continues to be , defensive .
A great deal depends on the crystallization of Mr. Kennedy's views on the world struggle .
The Free Chinese know that the situation on the Mainland is in flux , and are poised to strike .
There is not anywhere on the frontiers of freedom a more highly mobilized force for liberation .
The moment of truth is the moment of crisis .
During the slow buildup , the essence of a policy or a man is concealed under embroidered details , fine words , strutting gestures .
The crisis burns these suddenly away .
There the truth is , open to eyes that are willing to look .
The moment passes .
New self-deceiving rags are hurriedly tossed on the too-naked bones .
A truth-revealing crisis erupted in Katanga for a couple of days this month , to be quickly smothered by the high pressure verbal fog that is kept on tap for such emergencies .
Before memory , too , clouds over , let us make a note or two of what could be seen .
The measure was instantly taken , as always in such cases , of public men at many levels .
One knows better , now , who has bone and who has jelly in his spine .
But I am here concerned more with policy than with men .
Public men come and go but great issues of policy remain .
Now , everyone knows -- or knew in the week of December 10 -- that something had gone shockingly wrong with American foreign policy .
The United States was engaged in a military attack on a peaceful , orderly people governed by a regime that had proved itself the most pro-Western and anti-Communist within any of the new nations -- the only place in Africa , moreover , where a productive relationship between whites and blacks had apparently been achieved .
Of course the fighting was officially under the auspices of the United Nations .
But in the moment of truth everyone could see that the U.S. was in reality the principal .
The moment simultaneously revealed that in the crisis our policy ran counter to that of all our NATO allies , to the entire Western community .
By our policy the West was -- is -- split .
But the key revelation is not new .
The controlling pattern was first displayed in the Hungary-Suez crisis of November 1956 .
It reappears , in whole or part , whenever a new crisis exposes the reality : in Cuba last spring ( with which the Dominican events of last month should be paired ) ; ;
at the peaks of the nuclear test and the Berlin cycles ; ;
in relation to Laos , Algeria , South Africa ; ;
right now , with almost cartoon emphasis , in the temporally linked complex of Tshombe-Gizenga-Goa-Ghana .
What the moments reveal
This prime element of the truth may be stated as follows : Under prevailing policy , the U.S. can take the initiative against the Right , but cannot take the initiative against the Left .
It makes no difference what part of the world is involved , what form of regime , what particular issue .
The U.S. cannot take the initiative against the Left .
There is even some question whether the U.S. can any longer defend itself against an initiative by the Left .
We can attack Tshombe , but not Gigenza .
No matter that Gizenga is Moscow's man in the Congo .
No matter that it is his troops who rape Western women and eat Western men .
No matter that the Katanga operation is strategically insane in terms of Western interests in Africa .
( Even granted that the Congo should be unified , you don't protect Western security by first removing the pro-Western weight from the power equilibrium .
)
We can force Britain and France out of the Suez , but we cannot so much as try to force the Russian tanks back from Budapest .
We can mass our fleet against the Trujillos , but not against the Castros .
We can vote in the UN against South African apartheid or Portuguese rule in Angola , but we cannot even introduce a motion on the Berlin Wall -- much less , give the simple order to push the Wall down .
We officially receive the anti-French , Moscow-allied Algerian FLN , but we denounce the pro-Europe , anti-Communist OAS as criminal .
In the very week of our war against Katanga , we make a $133 million grant to Kwame Nkrumah , who has just declared his solidarity with the Communist bloc , and is busily turning his own country into a totalitarian dictatorship .
As our planes land the war materiel that kills pro-Western Katangans , we stand supinely bleating while Nehru's troops smash into a five-hundred-year-old district of our NATO ally , Portugal .
What explains this uni-directional paralysis ? ?
It is the consequence of the system of ideas that constitutes the frame of our international -- and in some degree our domestic -- policy .
The Suez-Hungary crisis proves that this system was not invented by the new Administration , but only made more consistent and more active .
Key to the puzzles
Most immediately relevant to these episodes in Goa , Katanga and Ghana , as to the Suez-Hungary crisis before them , is the belief that the main theater of the world drama is the underdeveloped region of Asia , Africa and Latin America .
From this belief is derived the practical orientation of our policy on the `` uncommitted '' ( `` neutralist '' , `` contested '' ) nations , especially on those whose leaders make the most noise -- Nehru , Tito , Nkrumah , Sukarno , Betancourt , etc. .
Our chief aim becomes that of finding favor in neutralist eyes .
If we grasp this orientation as a key , our national conduct in all of the events here mentioned becomes intelligible .
And it becomes clear why in general we cannot take the initiative against the Left .
Broadway
the unoriginals
To write a play , the dramatist once needed an idea plus the imagination , the knowledge of life and the craft to develop it .
Nowadays , more and more , all he needs is someone else's book .
To get started , he does not scan the world about him ; ;
he and his prospective producer just read the bestseller lists .
So far this season , Broadway's premieres have included twice as many adaptations and imports as original American stage plays .
Best from abroad .
Of straight dramas , there are All The Way Home , which owes much of its poetic power to the James Agee novel , A Death In The Family ; ;
The Wall , awkwardly based on the John Hersey novel ; ;
Advise And Consent , lively but shallow theater drawn from the mountainously detailed bestseller ; ;
Face Of A Hero ( closed ) , based on a Pierre Boulle novel .
The only original works attempting to reach any stature : Tennessee Williams' disappointing domestic comedy , Period Of Adjustment , and Arthur Laurents' clever but empty Invitation To A March .
Clearly the most provocative plays are all imported originals -- A Taste Of Honey , by Britain's young ( 19 when she wrote it ) Shelagh Delaney ; ;
Becket , by France's Jean Anouilh ; ;
The Hostage ( closed ) , by Ireland's Brendan Behan .
Among the musicals , Camelot came from T. H. White's The Once And Future King , and novels were the sources of the less than momentous Tenderloin and Do Re Mi .
Wildcat and The Unsinkable Molly Brown were originals , but pretty bad , leaving top honors again to an import -- the jaunty and charmingly French Irma La Douce .
The only other works at least technically original were dreary farces -- Send Me No Flowers ( closed ) , Under The Yum-Yum Tree , Critic's Choice .
In the forthcoming The Conquering Hero and Carnival , Broadway is not even adapting books , but reconverting old movies ( Hail The Conquering Hero and Lili ) .
Dry of life .
Originals are not necessarily good and adaptations are not necessarily bad .
Some memorable plays have been drawn from books , notably Life With Father and Diary Of Anne Frank .
And particularly in the musical field , adaptations have long been the rule , from Die Fledermaus and The Merry Widow to Oklahoma! and My Fair Lady .
As Critic Walter Kerr points out : `` Adaptations , so long as they are good , still qualify as creative '' .
And other defenders invariably argue that , after all , Shakespeare and Moliere were adapters too .
The difference is that the masters took the bare frame of a plot and filled it with their own world ; ;
most modern adapters totally accept the world of a book , squeeze it dry of life , and add only one contribution of their own : stage technique .
The most frequent excuse for the prevalence of unoriginals and tested imports is increasing production expense -- producers cannot afford to take chances .
But that explanation is only partly true .
Off-Broadway , where production is still comparatively cheap , is proving itself only slightly more original .
Laudably enough , it is offering classics and off-beat imports , but last week only one U.S. original was on the boards , Robert D. Hock's stunning Civil War work , Borak .
The real trouble seems to be the failing imagination of U.S. playwrights .
Nightclubs
the Cooch Terpers
He : `` Come with me to the Casbah '' .
She : `` By subway or cab '' ? ?
That exchange was not only possible but commonplace last week in Manhattan , as more and more New Yorkers were discovering 29th Street and Eighth Avenue , where half a dozen small nightclubs with names like Arabian Nights , Grecian Palace and Egyptian Gardens are the American inpost of belly dancing .
Several more will open soon .
Their burgeoning popularity may be a result of the closing of the 52nd Street burlesque joints , but curiously enough their atmosphere is almost always familial -- neighborhood saloons with a bit of epidermis .
The belly boites , with their papier-mache palm trees or hand-painted Ionic columns , heretofore existed mainly on the patronage of Greek and Turkish families .
Customers often bring their children ; ;
between performances , enthusiastic young men from the audience will take the floor to demonstrate their own amateur graces .
Except for the odd uptown sex maniac or an overeager Greek sailor , the people watch in calm absorption .
Small , shirt-sleeved orchestras play in 2/4 or 4/4 time , using guitars , violins , and more alien instruments with names that would open Sesame : the oud , grandfather of the lute ; ;
the darbuka , a small drum with the treelike shape of a roemer glass ; ;
the def , a low-pitched tambourine .
The girls sit quietly with the musicians , wearing prim dresses or plain , secretarial shifts , until it is time to go off to a back room and reappear in the spare uniform of the harem .
Continuum of mankind .
If a dancer is good , she suggests purely and superbly the fundamental mechanics of ancestry and progeny -- the continuum of mankind .
But a great many of what Variety calls the `` Cooch Terpers '' are considerably less cosmic than that .
Each dancer follows the ancient Oriental pattern -- she glides sideways with shoulders motionless while her stomach migrates , and , through breathing and muscle control , she sends ripples across her body to the fingertips and away to the far end of the room .
This is done at varying speeds , ranging from the slow and fast Shifte Telli ( a musical term meaning double strings ) to the fastest , ecstatic Karshilama ( meaning greetings or welcome ) .
The New York dancers are highly eclectic , varying the pattern with all kinds of personal improvisations , back bends or floor crawls .
But they do not strip .
The striptease is crass ; ;
the belly dance leaves more to the imagination .
When a dancer does well , she provokes a quiet bombardment of dollar bills -- although the Manhattan clubs prohibit the more cosmopolitan practice of slipping the tips into the dancers' costumes .
With tips , the girls average between $150 and $200 a week , depending on basic salary .
Although they are forbidden to sit with the customers , the dancers are sometimes proffered drinks , and most of them can bolt one down in mid-shimmy .
The melting pot .
All over the country , belly clubs have never been bigger , especially in Detroit , Boston and Chicago , and even in small towns ; ;
one of the best dancers , a Turkish girl named Semra , works at a roadhouse outside Bristol , Conn. .
The girls are kept booked and moving by several agents , notably voluble , black-bearded Murat Somay , a Manhattan Turk who is the Sol Hurok of the central abdomen .
He can offer nine Turkish girls , plans to import at least 15 more .
But a great many of the dancers are more or less native .
Sometimes they get their initial experience in church haflis , conducted by Lebanese and Syrians in the U.S. , where they dance with just as few veils across their bodies as in nightclubs .
As the girls come to belly dancing from this and other origins , the melting pot has never bubbled more intriguingly .
Some Manhattan examples :
Jemela ( surname : Gerby ) , 23 , seems Hong Kong Oriental but has a Spanish father and an Indian mother , was born in America and educated at Holy Cross Academy and Textile High School , says she learned belly dancing at family picnics .
Serene ( Mrs. Wilson ) , 23 , was born in Budapest and raised in Manhattan .
Daughter of a gypsy mother who taught her to dance , she is one of the few really beautiful girls in the New York Casbah , with dark eyes and dark , waist-length hair , the face of an adolescent patrician and a lithe , glimmering body .
Many belly dancers are married , but Serene is one of the few who will admit it .
Marlene ( surname : Adamo ) , 25 , a Brazilian divorcee who learned the dance from Arabic friends in Paris , now lives on Manhattan's West Side , is about the best belly dancer working the Casbah , loves it so much that she dances on her day off .
She has the small , highly developed body of a prime athlete , and holds in contempt the `` girls who just move sex '' .
Leila ( Malia Phillips ) , 25 , is a Greenwich Village painter of Persianesque miniatures who has red hair that cascades almost to her ankles .
A graduate of Hollywood High School , she likes to imagine herself , as she takes the floor , `` a village girl coming in to a festival '' .
Gloria ( surname : Ziraldo ) , circa 30 , who was born in Italy and once did `` chorus work '' in Toronto , has been around longer than most of the others , wistfully remembers the old days when `` we used to get the seamen from the ships , you know , with big turtleneck sweaters and handkerchiefs and all .
But the ships are very slow now , and we don't get so many sailors any more '' .
The uptown crowd has moved in , and what girl worth her seventh veil would trade a turtleneck sweater for a button-down collar ? ?
A short , tormented span
Of the handful of painters that Austria has produced in the 20th century , only one , Oskar Kokoschka , is widely known in the U.S. .
This state of unawareness may not last much longer .
For ten years a small group of European and U.S. critics has been calling attention to the half-forgotten Austrian expressionist Egon Schiele , who died 42 years ago at the age of 28 .
The critics' campaign finally inspired the first major U.S. exhibit of Schiele's works .
The show has been to Boston and Manhattan , will in time reach Pittsburgh and Minneapolis .
Last week it opened at the J. B. Speed Museum in Louisville , at the very moment that a second Schiele exhibit was being made ready at the Felix Landau gallery in Los Angeles .
Schiele's paintings are anything but pleasant .
His people ( see color ) are angular and knobby-knuckled , sometimes painfully stretched , sometimes grotesquely foreshortened .
His colors are dark and murky , and his landscapes and cityscapes seem swallowed in gloom .
But he painted some of the boldest and most original pictures of his time , and even after nearly half a century , the tense , tormented world he put on canvas has lost none of its fascination .
The devil himself .
The son of a railway stationmaster , Schiele lived most of his childhood in the drowsy Danubian town of Tulln , 14 miles northwest of Vienna .
He was an emotional , lonely boy who spent so much time turning out drawings that he did scarcely any schoolwork .
When he was 15 , his parents finally allowed him to attend classes at the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna .
Even there he did not last for long .
Cried one professor after a few months of Student Schiele's tantrums and rebellion : `` The devil himself must have defecated you into my classroom '' ! !
For a while his work was influenced deeply by the French impressionists , and by the patterned , mosaic-like paintings of Gustav Klimt , then the dean of Austrian art .
Gradually Schiele evolved a somber style of his own -- and he had few inhibitions about his subject matter .
His pictures were roundly denounced as `` the most disgusting things one has ever seen in Vienna '' .
He himself was once convicted of painting erotica and jailed for 24 days -- the first three of which he spent desperately trying to make paintings on the wall with his own spittle .
For years he wore hand-me-down suits and homemade paper collars , was even driven to scrounging for cigarette butts in Vienna's gutters .
Drafted into the Austrian army , he rebelliously rejected discipline , wangled a Vienna billet , went on painting .
It was not until the last year of his life that he had his first moneymaking show .
Melancholy obsession .
The unabashed sexuality of so many of his paintings was not the only thing that kept the public at bay : his view of the world was one of almost unrelieved tragedy , and it was too much even for morbid-minded Vienna .
He was obsessed by disease and poverty , by the melancholy of old age and the tyranny of lust .
The children he painted were almost always in rags , his portraits were often ruthless to the point of ugliness , and his nudes -- including several self-portraits -- were stringy , contorted and strangely pathetic .
The subject he liked most was the female body , which he painted in every state -- naked , half-dressed , muffled to the ears , sitting primly in a chair , lying tauntingly on a bed or locked in an embrace .
The most surprising thing about the Twenty-second Congress of the Soviet Communist Party is that it is surprising -- perhaps quite as much , in its own way , as the Twentieth Congress of 1956 , which ended with that famous `` secret '' report on Stalin .
The publication last July of the party's Draft Program -- that blueprint for the `` transition to communism '' -- had led the uninitiated to suppose that this Twenty-second Congress would be a sort of apotheosis of the Khrushchev regime , a solemn consecration of ideas which had , in fact , been current over the last three or four years ( i.e. , since the defeat of the `` anti-party group '' ) in all theoretical party journals .
These never ceased to suggest that if , in the eyes of Marx and Lenin `` full communism '' was still a very distant ideal , the establishment of a Communist society had now , under Khrushchev , become an `` immediate and tangible reality '' .
It seems that Khrushchev himself took a very special pride in having made a world-shaking contribution to Marxist doctrine with his Draft Program ( a large part of his twelve-hour speech at the recent Congress was , in fact , very largely a rehash of that interminable document ) .
He and other Soviet leaders responsible for the document were proud of having brought forward some new formulas , such as the early replacement of the dictatorship of the proletariat by an `` All People's State '' , and also of having laid down the lines for a much greater `` democratization '' of the whole hierarchy of Soviets , starting with the Supreme Soviet itself .
Their plan for rotation of leaders promised a salutary blow at `` bureaucracy '' and would enable `` the people '' to take a more direct and active part in running the country .
Also , elections would be more democratic ; ;
there might even be two or more candidates for voters to choose from .
No doubt , there was still a lot in the Draft Program -- and in Khrushchev's speech -- which left many points obscure .
Was it the party's intention , for example , to abolish gradually the kolkhoz system and replace it by uniformly wage-earning kolkhozes , i.e. , state farms ( which were , moreover , to be progressively `` urbanized '' ) ? ?
As we know , the Soviet peasant today still very largely thrives on being able to sell the produce grown on his private plot ; ;
and it is still very far from certain how valid the party's claim is that in `` a growing number of kolkhozes '' the peasants are finding it more profitable , to surrender their private plots to the kolkhoz and to let the latter be turned into something increasingly like a state farm .
If one follows the reports of the Congress , one finds that there still seems considerable uncertainty in the minds of the leaders themselves about what exactly to do in this matter .
The Draft Program was interesting in other respects , too .
It contained , for example , a number of curious admissions about the peasants , who enjoy no sickness benefits , no old-age pensions , no paid holidays ; ;
they still benefit far less than the `` other '' 50 per cent of the nation from that `` welfare state '' which the Soviet Union so greatly prides itself on being .
Over all these fairly awkward problems Khrushchev was to skate rather lightly ; ;
and , though he repeated , over and over again , the spectacular figures of industrial and agricultural production in 1980 , the `` ordinary '' people in Russia are still a little uncertain as to how `` communism '' is really going to work in practice , especially in respect of food .
Would agriculture progress as rapidly as industry ? ?
This was something on which K. himself seemed to have some doubts ; ;
for he kept on threatening that he would `` pull the ears '' of those responsible for agricultural production .
And , as we know , the Virgin Lands are not producing as much as Khrushchev had hoped .
One cannot but wonder whether these doubts about the success of Khrushchev's agricultural policy have not at least something to do with one of the big surprises provided by this Congress -- the obsessive harping on the crimes and misdeeds of the `` anti-party group '' -- Molotov , Malenkov , Kaganovich and others -- including the eighty-year-old Marshal Voroshilov .
Molotov , in particular , is being charged with all kinds of sins -- especially with wanting to cut down free public services , to increase rents and fares ; ;
in fact , with having been against all the more popular features of the Khrushchev `` welfare state '' .
The trouble with all these doctrinal quarrels is that we hear only one side of the story : what , in the secret councils of the Kremlin , Molotov had really proposed , we just don't know , and he has had no chance to reply .
But one cannot escape the suspicion that all this non-stop harping on the misdeeds of the long liquidated `` anti-party '' group would be totally unnecessary if there were not , inside the party , some secret but genuine opposition to Khrushchev on vital doctrinal grounds , on the actual methods to be employed in the `` transition to communism '' and , last but not least , on foreign policy .
The whole problem of `` peaceful coexistence and peaceful competition '' with the capitalist world is in the very center of this Congress .
Mikoyan declared :
`` Molotov altogether rejects the line of peaceful coexistence , reducing this concept merely to the state of peace or rather , the absence of war at a given moment , and to a denial of the possibility of averting a world war .
His views , in fact , coincide with those of foreign enemies of peaceful coexistence , who look upon it merely as a variant of the `` cold war '' or of an `` armed peace '' .
One cannot help wondering whether Molotov and the rest of the `` anti-party group '' are not being used as China's whipping-boys by Khrushchev and his faithful followers .
For something , clearly , has gone very , very seriously wrong in Soviet-Chinese relations , which were never easy , and have now deteriorated .
The effect of Chou En-lai's clash with Khrushchev , together with the everlasting attacks on Molotov & Co. , has shifted the whole attention of the world , including that of the Soviet people , from the `` epoch-making '' twenty-year program to the present Soviet-Chinese conflict .
Not only , as we know , did Chou En-lai publicly treat Khrushchev's attack on Albania as `` something that we cannot consider as a serious Marxist-Leninist approach '' to the problem ( i.e. , as something thoroughly dictatorial and `` undemocratic '' ) , but the Albanian leaders went out of their way to be openly abusive to Khrushchev , calling him a liar , a bully , and so on .
It is extremely doubtful that the handful of Albanians who call themselves Communists could have done this without the direct approval of their Chinese friends .
The big question is whether , in the name of a restored Chinese-Soviet solidarity , the Chinese will choose to persuade the Albanians to present their humble apologies to Khrushchev -- or get rid of Enver Hoxa .
These seem about the only two ways in which the `` unhappy incident '' can now be closed .
But Albania is merely a symptom of a real malaise between China and Russia .
There are other symptoms .
Khrushchev , for all his bombastic prophecies about the inevitable decay of capitalism , is genuinely favorable to `` peaceful coexistence '' and would like , above all , the Berlin and German problems to be settled peacefully ; ;
he knows that he was never more popular than at the time of the Russo-American `` honeymoon '' of 1959 .
But it seems that pressures against him are coming from somewhere -- in the first place from China , but perhaps also from that `` China Lobby '' which , I was assured in Moscow nearly two years ago , exists on the quiet inside the party .
To these people , solidarity and unity with China should be the real basis of Russia's future policy .
And the Chinese , as the Albanian incident shows , have strong suspicions that Khrushchev is anxious to secure a `` shameful '' peace with the West .
The fact that China ( which is obsessed by Formosa -- to Khrushchev a very small matter ) should be supported by North Korea and North Vietnam is highly indicative .
And one cannot but wonder whether Marshal Malinovsky , who was blowing hot and cold , exalting peace but also almost openly considering the possibility of preventive war against the West , wasn't trying to keep the Chinese quiet .
And this brings us inevitably to the 30- or 50-megaton bomb .
Was not this dropped primarily in order to `` appease '' the Chinese -- especially after `` Khrushchev's `` humiliating '' surrender to the West in canceling the German peace-treaty deadline of December 31 ? ?
What does it all add up to ? ?
Indications are that Khrushchev ( and , with him , the bulk of the Soviet people ) favor peaceful coexistence and ( with the exception of Berlin ) the maintenance of the status quo in the world .
The Chinese , North Vietnamese and North Koreans , on the other hand , feel that , militarily , Russia is strong enough to support them in the `` just wars of liberation '' they would like to embark on before long : with China attacking Formosa and the North Koreans and North Vietnamese liberating the southern half of their respective countries .
Perhaps Khrushchev is in a more difficult position than any since 1957 , when the `` anti-party group '' nearly liquidated him .
He seems strong enough inside the party to cope with any internal opposition ; ;
but if he is up against China's crusading spirit in world affairs , he is going to be faced with the most agonizing choice in his life .
He may support China ( but he won't ) ; ;
he may break with China ( which would be infernally difficult and perhaps disastrous ) , or he may succeed , by all kinds of dangerous concessions , in persuading China to be patient .
The next days may show where things stand .
On a misty Sunday morning last month , a small band of militant anti-Communists called the Minutemen held maneuvers in a foggy field about fifteen miles east of here .
Eleven men , a woman and a teen-age boy tramped over cold , damp , fog-enshrouded ground during a two-hour field drill in the problems of guerrilla warfare .
To the average American , this must sound like an incredible tale from a Saturday night TV movie .
But to the Minutemen , this is a serious business .
They feel that the United States is engaged in a life-and-death struggle with communism for survival and world supremacy .
They feel that World War 3 , has already begun , and they are setting themselves up as a `` last line of defense '' against the Communist advance .
Their national leader , Robert Bolivar DePugh of Norborne , Mo. , says the Minutemen believe that guerrilla tactics are best suited to defeat the Red onslaught .
In their maneuvers last month , they wore World War 2 , camouflage garb and helmets , and carried unloaded M-1 rifles .
The maneuvers were held `` in secret '' after a regional seminar for the Minutemen , held in nearby Shiloh , Ill. , had been broken up the previous day by deputy sheriffs , who had arrested regional leader Richard Lauchli of Collinsville , Ill. , and seized four operative weapons , including a Browning machine gun , two Browning automatic rifles and an M-4 rifle .
Undismayed by this contretemps , a small band of the faithful gathered at Lauchli's home at 6:30 A.M. the next day , put on their uniforms , and headed for a farm several miles away .
A 60 mm. mortar and a 57 mm. recoilless rifle owned by Lauchli were brought along .
The mortar was equipped with dummy shells and the recoilless rifle was deactivated .
After a tortuous drive in an open truck and a World War 2 , army jeep down soggy trails , the band arrived at a small clearing squeezed between a long , low ridge and a creek-filled gully .
Here the two leaders , DePugh and Lauchli , hastened to put the group through its paces .
The Minutemen were instructed in the use of terrain for concealment .
They were shown how to advance against an enemy outpost atop a cleared ridge .
They practiced movement behind a smoke screen laid by smoke grenades ; ;
and they attempted a skirmish line of advance against a camouflaged enemy encampment .
Eleven dummy rounds were fired by Lauchli in a demonstration of rapid-fire mortar shooting .
Mrs. DePugh , the mother of five children and an active member of her husband's organization , participated in all the exercises .
There were no `` casualties '' , but the `` guerrillas '' admitted to being `` a little tired '' when the leaders called a halt at 9 A.M. to enable out-of-town members to catch a plane .
Tenure as criterion
I would like to add one more practical reform to those mentioned by Russell Kirk ( Dec. 16 ) .
It has to do with teachers' salaries and tenure .
Next September , after receiving a degree from Yale's Master of Arts in Teaching Program , I will be teaching somewhere -- that much is guaranteed by the present shortage of mathematics teachers .
I will also be underpaid .
The amazing thing is that this too is caused by the dearth of teachers .
Teaching is at present a sellers' market ; ;
as a result buyers , the public , must be satisfied with second-rate teachers .
But this is not the real problem ; ;
the rub arises from the fact that teachers are usually paid on the basis of time served rather than quality .
Hence all teachers , good and bad , who have been teaching for a given number of years are paid the same salary .
I am firmly convinced that considering the average quality of teachers in this country , the profession is grossly overpaid .
It follows that teachers as a group cannot expect any marked salary increases ; ;
there is a limit to how much the public will pay for shoddy performance .
The only hope which good teachers have for being paid their due is to stop dragging the dead weight of poor teachers up the economic ladder with them .
The only hope which the public has for getting good teachers is to pay teachers on the basis of merit rather than tenure .
Here , as in all sectors of the economy , quality and justice are both dependent on the right of the individual to deal directly with his employer if he so chooses .
Loss of initiative
On the eve of the `` great debate '' on the proposal to give the President broad powers to make across-the-board tariff concessions which could practically bring us into the Atlantic Community , we should face the alternatives on this proposition .
What we will be sacrificing in any such arrangement will be our power to be selective which is contained in the reciprocal trade principle under which we now operate .
Without this power we lay open any American industry which the Europeans may find it economically profitable to destroy to the will of others .
It is this loss of initiative in how we conduct our economy which may lead to the loss of initiative in how we conduct our political affairs .
A brief for the negative
I disagree with Mr. Burnham's position on the Common Market ( Nov. 18 ) as a desirable organization for us to join .
For him to ignore the political consequences involved in an Atlantic Union of this kind is difficult to understand .
The pressure for our entry to the Common Market is mounting and we will proceed towards this amalgamated trade union by way of a purely `` economic thoroughfare '' , or garden path , with the political ramifications kept neatly in the background .
The appeal is going to be to the pocketbook and may be very convincing to those who do not see its relation to political and legal , as well as economic , self-rule .
In entering this union we will be surrendering most , if not all , of our economic autonomy to international bodies such as the Atlantic Institute ( recently set up ) or the O.E.C.D. , I.M.F. and others .
To think that we can merely relinquish our economic autonomy without giving up our political or legal autonomy is wishful thinking .
If it is not enough that all of our internationalist One Worlders are advocating that we join this market , I refer you to an article in the New York Times' magazine section ( Nov. 12 , 1961 ) , by Mr. Eric Johnston , entitled `` We Must Join The Common Market '' .
He says : `` It has swept aside petty nationalisms , age-old rivalries , and worn-out customs '' .
Referring to Britain , he says , `` We see a nation that traditionally values sovereignty above all else willing to give up its economy , placing this authority in Continental hands '' .
Since the goal of our international planners is a World Government , this Atlantic Community would mark a giant step in that direction for , once American economic autonomy is absorbed , a larger grouping is a question of time .
Frankly , it is being very cleverly done for , in a sense , they have us over a barrel .
Listen to what Mr. Johnston has to say : `` Consider the savage wounds that isolationism would inflict .
We would lose our export markets and deny ourselves the imports we need .
We would be crippled by reduced output , industrial decline , widespread unemployment '' .
But the solution to this dilemma is not the incorporation of the United States into an Atlantic Community or `` economic empire '' , but merely what libertarians like Henry Hazlitt and Ludwig Von Mises have been arguing for years : an end to government regulations , an end to government competition in industry , and a realistic depreciation allowance for industry .
Create a free market here , give us a sound , debt-free money system , and we'll compete with anyone , Europe and Asia combined .
In short , get this governmental monstrosity off our backs and we won't have to worry about European competition or Communism either .
If we want to preserve our sovereignty , this is the way to do it ; ;
not acquiesce to an international planning board .
If we go into this Common Market , we might just as well stop talking about Constitutional guarantees , Connally Amendments or , for that matter , conservatism in general .
We welcome this able brief for the negative as part of a many-sided discussion of the Atlantic Common Market which JNR will be continuing in our pages .
-- ed. .
Mental telepathy ? ?
The Peiping Chinese were the only major silver seller in the world markets who stopped selling the metal on Monday morning , November 27 , anticipating by two days the announcement of the U.S. Treasury that the pegged offering price will be removed .
A professor and the army
In 1954 I was drafted and after serving two years honorably on Active Duty I was not required to participate in any further Army Reserve activities .
Now , more than five years later , I cannot in any realistic sense be called a trained soldier .
But , in spite of this , I , at present a man 31 years of age and a College Professor , have been recalled `` by direction of the President '' to report on November 25th to Fort Devens , Massachusetts , for another twelve months of Active Duty as an Sp 4 ( the equivalent of a PFC ) .
Today , seven years after the date of my initial induction as a draftee , I am Assistant Professor of Philosophy and Science at St. Michael's College .
For , after leaving the Army in 1956 , I spent five years in Graduate School first at Boston College and then at the University of Toronto .
This time , added to that which I had already spent in school prior to my induction in 1954 , makes a total of twenty-two ( 22 ) years of education .
The possibility of recall into the Army is part of the price that a modern American has to pay for the enviable heritage of liberty which he enjoys .
With this no loyal citizen can quarrel .
However , it seems axiomatic that the government has an obligation `` to exercise its mandate reasonably , equitably and with full regard for the disruptions which it inevitably causes '' .
In my own case , I submit that such reasonable and fair exercise is woefully lacking .
Taken back into the Army now as an Sp 4 , I am leaving 110 college students whose teacher I am .
( A wry sidelight on this is that most of my students have deferments from the draft in order to attend my classes .
) At this late date , it is impossible for St. Michael's College to find a suitable replacement for me .
Even apart from the fact that now at the age of 31 my personal life is being totally disrupted for the second time for no very compelling reason -- I cannot help looking around at the black leather jacket brigades standing idly on the street corners and in the taverns of every American city and asking myself if our society has gone mad .
Mercenary : term of honor ? ?
In news broadcasts I consistently hear the foreign volunteers fighting in the Katanga Army referred to as mercenaries .
This confuses me no end .
If the Hessian troops sent here willy-nilly by the Hessian Government to fight for England in the 1770's were mercenaries , what shall we call the UN troops sent to the Congo willy-nilly by their governments to fight for the United Nations ? ?
If the UN troops are not mercenaries then the Hessians were not mercenaries either .
And if the foreigners fighting in the Katanga Army are mercenaries then Lafayette and Von Steuben were mercenaries too , as were also the members of the Lafayette Escadrille in the early part of World War 1 , and of Chennault's Flying Tigers in the early days of World War 2 .
Modern postal slogan
It doesn't take a Gore Vidal to tell you what's wrong with Cherokee Textile's slogan ( Pitney-Bowes Objects '' , July 1 ) .
It's an eighteenth-century negative , man ! !
Suggest the following twenty-first-century amendment : By moving the term `` Republic '' to lower case , substituting the modern phrase , `` move ahead '' for the stodgy `` keep '' , and by using the Postmaster's name on every envelope ( in caps , of course , with the `` in spite '' as faded as possible ) , the slogan cannot fail .
The impending death of Pope
In the issue of March 5 , 1960 you had an excellent editorial which said :
`` On trial in Jakarta for having flown for the Indonesian anti-Communist insurgents , U.S. pilot Alan Lawrence Pope boldly told the court that in supporting the freedom fighters , he was actually defending the sovereignty and independence of Indonesia .
Facing a prosecution which has demanded the death penalty , he said : ' I have participated in the war against Communism in Korea and at Dienbienphu , and I have helped in the evacuation of North Vietnamese to the free world .
I have done all this for the freedom of the individuals concerned and also for the states which have been threatened by Communist domination .
At least in Indonesia , Khrushchev found an American proud to be at total war with Communism '' ! !
Since then nothing has happened to save the life of Pope .
I found recently a very small article in the New York Times :
`` U.S. Flier Loses Plea .
Indonesia Court Upholds Pope's Death Sentence .
-- Indonesia Military Supreme Court has confirmed the death sentence passed on Alan Lawrence Pope , an American pilot .
Pope was convicted last year of having aided North Celebes rebels by flying bombing missions .
He has been in prison since May , 1958 , when his aircraft was shot down over Moluccas .
He may appeal to President Sukarno for clemency '' .
As we see , Pope may appeal to President Sukarno , Khrushchev's friend , for clemency .
This possibility is anything but reassuring .
The Eleanor Roosevelt Tractor Committee acts on behalf of the Cuban freedom fighters .
But who will act now and immediately to save the life of Alan Pope ? ?
Are tractors available for him ? ?
Does anybody think of saving the life of an anti-Communist American pilot ? ?
An analogy
A few days before I saw your mention of what Texas Liberals were doing to promote `` Louis Capet '' ( The Week '' , June 3 ) , another analogy had occurred to me .
Consider this table : 1 .
Louis 14 , -- Aj .
`` With no strong men and no parliament to dispute his will , he was the government '' .
2 .
Regency -- Truman .
`` A ' dust-settling ' period of decadence and decline '' .
3 .
Louis 15 , -- Eisenhower .
`` He opened his mouth , said little , and thought not at all '' .
4 .
Louis 16 , -- Kennedy .
`` Not completely virtuous , but completely incompetent '' .
And Marie Antoinette -- Jacqueline Bouvier .
`` The beautiful and light-hearted '' .
5 .
French Revolution -- Conservative Revolution ? ?
Truly , that Liberals should choose Louis 14 , as a bogey-symbol of conservatism is grotesquely ironic , considering the Louis 14 , character of their Grand Monarque , FDR : not only in his accretion of absolute power and personal deification , ( le roi gouverne par lui meme ) , but in the disastrous effects of his spending and war policies .
In defeating `` Louis Capet '' , John Tower's victory in Texas signals , once again , the end of the divine right of Liberalism .
Confrontation
It seems to me that N.C. , in his editorial `` Confrontation '' ( SR , Mar. 25 ) , has hit upon the real problem that bothers all of us in a complex world : how do we retain our personal relationship with those who suffer ? ?
This affects us all intimately , and can leave us hopeless in the face of widespread distress .
I know of no other solution than the one N.C. proposes -- to do what we can for each sufferer as he confronts us , hoping that this will spread beyond him to others at some time and some place .
Never have I seen this expressed so clearly and so sympathetically .
Thank you for the illustrated editorial `` Confrontation '' .
It is both great writing and profound religion .
N.C. has said something important so well that this preacher will many times be tempted to quote the whole piece .
I feel that N.C. hit the very core of our existence in the editorial `` Confrontation '' .
Personally , it meant a great deal ; ;
my only hope is that it will be shared by many , many others .
`` Confrontation '' should fortify us all , whether in Southeast Asia or the U.S. .
Congratulations to N.C. for successfully delving into the heart of the problems that face the Peace Corps .
I concur that it is necessary for Americans to have a confrontation of the situation existing in foreign lands .
It would be heartbreaking to see idealism , and hence effective leadership , thwarted by the poverty and hardship which young Americans will run into .
The editorial `` Confrontation '' was certainly direct in its appeal to those of us living here in America .
I personally gained strength from it .
Thanks for continuing to capture the attention and uncover so many areas of need in this amazing world .
N.C.'s editorial `` Confrontation '' is a stunning piece of writing .
I would hope that Sargent Shriver will encourage everyone entering the Peace Corps to read it .
The important people to humanity are not the Khrushchevs and the Castros but the Schweitzers and the Dooleys , and the others like them whose names we will never know .
Editor's note : Reprints of `` Confrontation '' will be included among the material to be distributed to members of the Peace Corps .
A Peace Corps official described the editorial as `` precisely the message we need to communicate to the men and women who will soon be Peace Corps volunteers '' .
Improper Bostonian ? ?
F. L. Lucas's article in SR's April 1 issue seemed to be a very fair and objective analysis of the New English Bible .
I certainly hope this will be the impression left in the minds of readers , rather than the comment by Cleveland Amory in his first of the month column .
It is blind , fundamentalist dogmatism to say , `` Messing around with the King James version seems to us a perilous sport at best '' .
Facts in focus
Lester Markel is on the right track in his article `` Interpretation Of Interpretation '' ( SR , Mar. 11 ) .
The current stereotype of straight news reporting was probably invaluable in protecting the press and its readers from pollution by that combination of doctored fact , fancy , and personal opinion called yellow journalism which flourished in this country more than a generation ago .
We don't need this type of protection any more .
The public is now armed with sophistication and numerous competing media .
Besides , there are no longer enough corruptible journalists about .
The accepted method of writing news has two major liabilities .
First , it does not communicate .
A reporter restricted to the competing propaganda statements of both sides in a major labor dispute , for instance , is unable to tell his readers half of what he knows about the causes of the dispute .
Second , it subjects the news to distortion by the unscrupulous .
The charges by the late junior Senator from Wisconsin not only destroyed innocent people but misled the nation .
Yet the press was powerless to put these charges in perspective in its news columns .
Despite several years of front-page stories , the average citizen was unable to get a complete picture of McCarthy until he saw on the television screen what the reporters had been seeing all along but had no effective way of communicating .
The Senator had boxed them in with their own restrictions .
It seems to me the time has come for the American press to start experimenting with ways of reporting the news that will do a better job of communicating and will be less subject to abuse by those who have learned how to manipulate the present stereotype to serve their own ends .
The objective should be to provide a method of getting into print a higher percentage than is now possible of the relevant information in the possession of reporters and editors .
Southern California blackout
I would like to see you devote some space in an early issue to the news blackout concerning President Kennedy's activities , so far as Southern California is concerned .
You have on more than one occasion praised the idea of a televised press conference and the chance it gives the people to form intelligent opinions .
To begin with , the all-powerful Los Angeles Times does not publish a transcript of these press conferences .
I am sure that they did when Eisenhower was President .
Next , because of the time differential , the conferences come on the networks during the middle of the day .
Up until now , the networks have grudgingly run half-hour tapes at 5 P.M. or sometimes 7 or 10:30 P.M. .
Even then , a few of the `` less interesting '' questions are edited out and glibly summarized by a commentator .
However , last night the tapes were not run at all during the evening hours and all we got on TV were a few snatches which Douglas Edwards and Huntley and Brinkley could squeeze into their programs .
This is no criticism of them , as they obviously cannot get a half-hour program into a fifteen-minute news summary .
The radio stations did run `` transcripts '' ( I thought ) during the evening hours .
However , by comparing the TV snatches , two different radio station re-runs , and the censored Los Angeles Times version , I found that the radio stations had edited out questions ( ABC removed the one regarding Laos ) or even a paragraph out of the middle of the President's answer .
I am interested to know he is getting mail from all over the country about the `` abuse '' he is being subjected to .
We out here don't see enough of the conference to know he is being abused .
I don't know if this is the situation in other parts of the country ; ;
apparently it is not .
It also happened with the Inauguration , which was not re-run at all during the evening hours , and I wrote to the TV editor of the Times .
He did mention in his column the fact that he had received many letters about this and he himself did not understand the networks and the independent local stations' not doing this -- but nothing happened .
Can you bring the networks' attention to this ? ?
For a college of propaganda
I was interested in James Webb Young's Madison Avenue column in which he raised the question : `` Do We Need a College of Propaganda '' ? ?
( SR , Feb. 11 ) .
In my estimation , we definitely do ; ;
and the sad part of it is that we had one , which was rounding into excellent shape , and we let it disintegrate and die .
During the war , we set up schools for the teaching of psychological warfare , which included the teaching of propaganda , both black and white and the various shades of grey in between .
We had a couple of schools in this country , the principal one being on the Marshall Field estate out in Lloyd's Neck .
There were also a couple in Canada , and several in England .
The English schools preceded ours , and by the time we got into it they had learned a lot about the techniques of propaganda and its teaching .
Four of us here in the United States attended , first as students , then as instructors , almost every one of these schools , in England , Canada , and the United States .
We set up the Lloyd's Neck school , worked out its curriculum , and taught there .
Toward the end of the war , we really felt that we had learned something about propaganda and how to teach it .
When the end did come , and the schools were disbanded and abandoned , we felt and hoped that the machinery of psychological warfare would not be allowed to rust .
We hoped that its practitioners and teachers might be put on some sort of reserve list and called back for refresher courses each year or so .
Alas , no such thing happened .
There apparently is no school of propaganda or psychological warfare .
A study at the Pentagon and at the service academies revealed that nothing was being done there .
And not one of the four men who attended all the schools has ever been called on to apply any of his knowledge in any way .
Congratulations on the article `` Do We Need A College Of Propaganda '' ? ?
This is one of the most constructive suggestions made in this critical field in years , and I certainly hope it sparks some action .
Let the media clean house , too
many of us in public relations were flattered that Richard L. Tobin chose to devote his editorial in the March 11 Communications Supplement to the merger of the Public Relations Society of America and the American Public Relations Association .
Snow storm
I was surprised and sorry to find in your issue of March 4 a long and detailed attack upon a book that had not yet been published .
Whether in his forthcoming book C. P. Snow commits the errors of judgment and of fact with which your heavily autobiographical critic charged him is important .
One should be able to get hold of the book at once .
But the attack was made from an advance copy .
If this practice should take root and spread , the man who submits a manuscript to a publisher will find himself reviewed before he is accepted and publication will become a sort of post-mortem formality .
Editor's note : Sir Robert Watson-Watt wrote , on page 50 of SR Research for 4 March 1961 : :
`` I have read an advance copy of the Snow book which is to be titled , ' Science And Government .
Until the work actually appears I am not privileged to analyze it publicly in detail .
But I have compared its text with already published commentaries on the 1960 series of Godkin lectures at Harvard , from which the book was derived , and I can with confidence challenge the gist of C. P. Snow's incautious tale '' .
Watson-Watt's remarks in SR did not then , constitute a review of the book but a rebuttal to the Godkin Lectures .
Representatives of Harvard University Press , which is publishing the book this month of April , recognize and freely acknowledge that they invited such reaction by allowing Life magazine to print an excerpt from the book in advance of the book's publication date .
The text of the book leaves a somewhat milder impression than the prepublication excerpt .
Sir Robert Watson-Watt's `` rebuttal '' of Sir Charles Snow's Godkin Lectures is marred throughout by too forceful a desire to defend Lindemann and apparently himself from Sir Charles' supposed falsehoods while stating those `` falsehoods '' in an unclear incoherent argument .
The article presents the reader with an absurdity at its beginning .
It calls the conclusion admitted valid by `` historians and military strategists alike '' a `` perverted conclusion .
Nonsense '' .
It submits an enthusiastic , impressionistic conception of Lindemann contributing another aspect of the man , but on no more authoritative basis than Sir Charles' account .
We are left to choose between the two Lindemanns .
The only fact that holds any weight in the article is the result of the tea party .
But we are to believe that Lindemann actively supported radar outside the Tizard Committee , and dissembling , discounted it inside ? ?
If so , I would lean to Sir Charles' conception of the man .
I think it was a grave error to print the article at this time .
To the unfortunate people unable to attend the Godkin lectures it casts an unjustifiable aura of falsehood over the book which may dissuade some people from reading it .
It is not news that Nathan Milstein is a wizard of the violin .
Certainly not in Orchestra Hall where he has played countless recitals , and where Thursday night he celebrated his 20th season with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra , playing the Brahms Concerto with his own slashing , demon-ridden cadenza melting into the high , pale , pure and lovely song with which a violinist unlocks the heart of the music , or forever finds it closed .
There was about that song something incandescent , for this Brahms was Milstein at white heat .
Not the noblest performance we have heard him play , or the most spacious , or even the most eloquent .
Those would be reserved for the orchestra's great nights when the soloist can surpass himself .
This time the orchestra gave him some superb support fired by response to his own high mood .
But he had in Walter Hendl a willing conductor able only up to a point .
That is , when Mr. Milstein thrust straight to the core of the music , sparks flying , bow shredding , violin singing , glittering and sometimes spitting , Mr. Hendl could go along .
But Mr. Hendl does not go straight to any point .
He flounders and lets music sprawl .
There was in the Brahms none of the mysterious and marvelous alchemy by which a great conductor can bring soloist , orchestra and music to ultimate fusion .
So we had some dazzling and memorable Milstein , but not great Brahms .
The concert opened with another big romantic score , Schumann's Overture to `` Manfred '' , which suffered fate , this time with orchestral thrusts to the Byronic point to keep it afloat .
Hindemith's joust with Weber tunes was a considerably more serious misfortune , for it demands transluscent textures , buoyant rhythms , and astringent wit .
It got the kind of scrambled , coarsened performance that can happen to best of orchestras when the man with the baton lacks technique and style .
Bayreuth next summer
The Bayreuth Festival opens July 23 with a new production of `` Tannhaeuser '' staged by Wieland Wagner , who is doing all the operas this time , and conducted by Wolfgang Sawallisch .
Sawalisch also conducts `` The Flying Dutch '' , opening July 24 .
`` Parsifal '' follows July 25 , with Hans Knappertsbusch conducting , and he also conducts `` Die Meistersinger '' , to be presented Aug. 8 and 12 .
The `` Ring '' cycles are July 26 , 27 , 28 and 30 , and Aug. 21 , 22 , 23 and 25 .
Rudolf Kempe conducts .
No casts are listed , but Lotte Lehmann sent word that the Negro soprano , Grace Bumbry , will sing Venus in `` Tannhaeuser '' .
Remember how by a series of booking absurdities Chicago missed seeing the Bolshoi Ballet ? ?
Remember how by lack of two big theaters Chicago missed the first visit of the Royal Danish Ballet ? ?
Well , now we have two big theaters .
But barring a miracle , and don't hold your breath for it , Chicago will not see the Leningrad-Kirov Ballet , which stems from the ballet cradle of the Maryinsky and is one of the great companies of the world .
Before you let loose a howl saying we announced its coming , not once but several times , indeed we did .
The engagement was supposed to be all set for the big theater in McCormick Place , which Sol Hurok , ballet booker extraordinary , considers the finest house of its kind in the country -- and of course he doesn't weep at the capacity , either .
It was all set .
Allied Arts Corporation first listed the Chicago dates as Dec. 4 thru 10 .
Later the Hurok office made it Dec. 8 thru 17 , a nice , long booking for the full repertory .
But if you keep a calendar of events , as we do , you noticed a conflict .
Allied Arts had booked Marlene Dietrich into McCormick Place Dec. 8 and 9 .
Something had to give .
Not La Dietrich .
Allied Arts then notified us that the Kirov would cut short its Los Angeles booking , fly here to open Nov. 28 , and close Dec. 2 .
Shorter booking , but still a booking .
We printed it .
A couple of days later a balletomane told me he had telephoned Allied Arts for ticket information and was told `` the newspapers had made a mistake '' .
So I started making some calls of my own .
These are the results .
The Kirov Ballet is firmly booked into the Shrine Auditorium , Los Angeles , Nov. 21 thru Dec. 4 .
Not a chance of opening here Nov. 28 -- barring that miracle .
Then why not the juicy booking Hurok had held for us ? ?
Well , Dietrich won't budge from McCormick Place .
Then how about the Civic Opera House ? ?
Well , Allied Arts has booked Lena Horne there for a week starting Dec. 4 .
Queried about the impasse , Allied Arts said : `` Better cancel the Kirov for the time being .
It's all up in the air again '' .
So the Kirov will fly back to Russia , minus a Chicago engagement , a serious loss for dance fans -- and for the frustrated bookers , cancellation of one of the richest bookings in the country .
Will somebody please reopen the Auditorium ? ?
Paintings and drawings by Marie Moore of St. Thomas , Virgin Islands , are shown thru Nov. 5 at the Meadows Gallery , 3211 Ellis Av. , week days , 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. , Sundays 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. , closed Mondays .
An exhibition of Evelyn Cibula's paintings will open with a reception Nov. 5 at the Evanston Community center , 828 Davis St. .
It will continue all month .
Abstractions and semi-abstractions by Everett McNear are being exhibited by the University Gallery of Notre Dame until Nov. 5 .
In the line of operatic trades to cushion the budget , the Dallas Civic Opera will use San Francisco's new Leni Bauer-Ecsy production of `` Lucia Di Lammermoor '' this season , returning the favor next season when San Francisco uses the Dallas `` Don Giovanni '' , designed by Franco Zeffirelli .
H E. Bates has scribbled a farce called `` Hark , Hark , The Lark '' ! !
It is one of the most entertaining and irresponsible novels of the season .
If there is a moral lurking among the shenanigans , it is hard to find .
Perhaps the lesson we should take from these pages is that the welfare state in England still allows wild scope for all kinds of rugged eccentrics .
Anyway , a number of them meet here in devastating collisions .
One is an imperial London stockbroker called Jerebohm .
Another is a wily countryman called Larkin , whose blandly boisterous progress has been chronicled , I believe , in earlier volumes of Mr. Bates' comedie humaine .
What's up now ? ?
Well , Jerebohm and his wife Pinkie have reached the stage of affluence that stirs a longing for the more atrociously expensive rustic simplicities .
They want to own a junior-grade castle , or a manor house , or some modest little place where Shakespeare might once have staged a pageant for Great Elizabeth and all her bearded courtiers .
They are willing to settle , however , in anything that offers pheasants to shoot at and peasants to work at .
And of course Larkin has just the thing they want .
Splendor by sorcery
It's a horror .
The name of it is Gore Court , and it is surrounded by a wasteland that would impress T. S. Eliot .
That's not precisely the way Larkin urges them to look at it , though .
He conjures herds of deer , and wild birds crowding the air .
He suggests that Gore Court embodies all the glories of Tudor splendor .
The stained-glass windows may have developed unpremeditated patinas , the paneling may be no more durable than the planks in a political platform .
The vast , dungeon kitchens may seem hardly worth using except on occasions when one is faced with a thousand unexpected guests for lunch .
Larkin has an answer to all that .
The spaciousness of the Tudor cooking areas , for example , will provide needed space for the extra television sets required by modern butlers , cooks and maids .
Also , perhaps , table-tennis and other indoor sports to keep them fit and contented .
It's a wonder , really , to how much mendacious trouble Larkin puts himself to sell the Jerebohms that preposterous manse .
He doesn't really need the immense sum of money ( probably converted from American gold on the London Exchange ) he makes them pay .
For Larkin is already wonderfully contented with his lot .
He has a glorious wife and many children .
When he needs money to buy something like , say , the Rolls-Royce he keeps near his vegetable patch , he takes a flyer in the sale of surplus army supplies .
One of those capital-gains ventures , in fact , has saddled him with Gore Court .
He is willing to sell it just to get it off his hands .
And the Jerebohms are more than willing to buy it .
They plan to become county people who know the proper way to terminate a fox's life on earth .
First one , then the other
If , in Larkin's eyes , they are nothing but Piccadilly farmers , he has as much to learn about them as they have to learn about the ways of truly rural living .
Mr. Bates shows us how this mutual education spreads its inevitable havoc .
Oneupmanship is practiced by both sides in a total war .
First the Larkins are ahead , then the Jerebohms .
After Larkin has been persuaded to restock his tangled acres with pheasants , he poaches only what he needs for the nourishment of his family and local callers .
One of the local callers , a retired brigadier apparently left over from Kipling's tales of India , does not approve of the way Larkin gets his birds .
He doesn't think that potting them from a deck chair on the south side of the house with a quart glass of beer for sustenance is entirely sporting .
But the brigadier dines on the birds with relish .
It is truly odd and ironic that the most handsome and impressive film yet made from Miguel De Cervantes' `` Don Quixote '' is the brilliant Russian spectacle , done in wide screen and color , which opened yesterday at the Fifty-fifth Street and Sixty-eighth Street Playhouses .
More than a beautiful visualization of the illustrious adventures and escapades of the tragi-comic knight-errant and his squire , Sancho Panza , in seventeenth-century Spain , this inevitably abbreviated rendering of the classic satire on chivalry is an affectingly warm and human exposition of character .
Nikolai Cherkasov , the Russian actor who has played such heroic roles as Alexander Nevsky and Ivan the Terrible , performs the lanky Don Quixote , and does so with a simple dignity that bridges the inner nobility and the surface absurdity of this poignant man .
His addle-brained knight-errant , self-appointed to the ridiculous position in an age when armor had already been relegated to museums and the chivalrous code of knight-errantry had become a joke , is , as Cervantes no doubt intended , a gaunt but gracious symbol of good , moving soberly and sincerely in a world of cynics , hypocrites and rogues .
Cherkasov does not caricature him , as some actors have been inclined to do .
He treats this deep-eyed , bearded , bony crackpot with tangible affection and respect .
Directed by Grigory Kozintsev in a tempo that is studiously slow , he develops a sense of a high tradition shining brightly and passing gravely through an impious world .
The complexities of communication have been considerably abetted in this case by appropriately stilted English language that has been excellently dubbed in place of the Russian dialogue .
The voices of all the characters , including that of Cherkasov , have richness , roughness or color to conform with the personalities .
And the subtleties of the dialogue are most helpfully conveyed .
Since Russian was being spoken instead of Spanish , there is no violation of artistry or logic here .
Splendid , too , is the performance of Yuri Tolubeyev , one of Russia's leading comedians , as Sancho Panza , the fat , grotesque `` squire '' .
Though his character is broader and more comically rounded than the don , he gives it a firmness and toughness -- a sort of peasant dignity -- too .
It is really as though the Russians have seen in this character the oftentimes underlying vitality and courage of supposed buffoons .
The episode in which Sancho Panza concludes the joke that is played on him when he is facetiously put in command of an `` island '' is one of the best in the film .
True , the pattern and flow of the drama have strong literary qualities that are a bit wearisome in the first half , before Don Quixote goes to the duke's court .
But strength and poignancy develop thenceforth , and the windmill and deathbed episodes gather the threads of realization of the wonderfulness of the old boy .
There are other good representations of peasants and people of the court by actors who are finely costumed and magnificently photographed in this last of the Russian films to reach this country in the program of joint cultural exchange .
Also on the bill at the Fifty-fifth Street is a nice ten-minute color film called `` Sunday In Greenwich Village '' , a tour of the haunts and joints .
Television has yet to work out a living arrangement with jazz , which comes to the medium more as an uneasy guest than as a relaxed member of the family .
There seems to be an unfortunate assumption that an hour of Chicago-style jazz in prime evening time , for example , could not be justified without the trimmings of a portentous documentary .
At least this seemed to be the working hypothesis for `` Chicago And All That Jazz '' , presented on NBC-TV Nov. 26 .
The program came out of the NBC Special Projects department , and was slotted in the Du Pont Show Of The Week series .
Perhaps Special Projects necessarily thinks along documentary lines .
If so , it might be worth while to assign a future jazz show to a different department -- one with enough confidence in the musical material to cut down on the number of performers and give them a little room to display their talents .
As a matter of fact , this latter approach has already been tried , and with pleasing results .
A few years ago a `` Timex All-Star Jazz Show '' offered a broad range of styles , ranging from Lionel Hampton's big band to the free-wheeling Dukes Of Dixieland .
An enthusiastic audience confirmed the `` live '' character of the hour , and provided the interaction between musician and hearer which almost always seems to improve the quality of performance .
About that same time John Crosby's TV series on the popular arts proved again that giving jazz ample breathing space is one of the most sensible things a producer can do .
In an hour remembered for its almost rudderless movement , a score of jazz luminaries went before the cameras for lengthy periods .
The program had been arranged to permit the establishment of a mood of intense concentration on the music .
Cameras stared at soloists' faces in extreme closeups , then considerately pulled back for full views of ensemble work .
`` Chicago And All That Jazz '' could not be faulted on the choice of artists .
Some of the in-person performers were Jack Teagarden , Gene Krupa , Bud Freeman , Pee Wee Russell , Johnny St. Cyr , Joe Sullivan , Red Allen , Lil Armstrong , Blossom Seeley .
The jazz buff could hardly ask for more .
Furthermore , Garry Moore makes an ideal master of ceremonies .
( He played host at the Timex show already mentioned .
)
One of the script's big problems was how to blend pictures and music of the past with live performances by musicians of today .
NBC had gathered a lot of historical material which it was eager to share .
For example , there was sheet music with the word `` jazz '' in the title , to illustrate how a word of uncertain origin took hold .
Samples zoomed into closeup range in regular succession , like telephone poles passing on the highway , while representative music reinforced the mood of the late teens and 1920's .
However well chosen and cleverly arranged , such memorabilia unfortunately amounted to more of an interruption than an auxiliary to the evening's main business , which ( considering the talent at hand ) should probably have been the gathering of fresh samples of the Chicago style .
Another source of NBC pride was its rare film clip of Bix Beiderbecke , but this view of the great trumpeter flew by so fast that a prolonged wink would have blotted out the entire glimpse .
Similarly , in presenting still photographs of early jazz groups , the program allowed no time for a close perusal .
`` Chicago And All That Jazz '' may have wound up satisfying neither the confirmed fan nor the inquisitive newcomer .
By trying to be both a serious survey of a bygone era and a showcase for today's artists , the program turned out to be a not-quite-perfect example of either .
Still , the network's willingness to experiment in this musical field is to be commended , and future essays happily anticipated .
Even Joan Sutherland may not have anticipated the tremendous reception she received from the Metropolitan Opera audience attending her debut as Lucia in Donizetti's `` Lucia Di Lammermoor '' Sunday night .
The crowd staged its own mad scene in salvos of cheers and applause and finally a standing ovation as Miss Sutherland took curtain call after curtain call following a fantastic `` Mad Scene '' created on her own and with the help of the composer and the other performers .
Her entrance in Scene 2 , Act 1 , brought some disconcerting applause even before she had sung a note .
Thereafter the audience waxed applause-happy , but discriminating operagoers reserved judgment as her singing showed signs of strain , her musicianship some questionable procedure and her acting uncomfortable stylization .
As she gained composure during the second act , her technical resourcefulness emerged stronger , though she had already revealed a trill almost unprecedented in years of performances of `` Lucia '' .
She topped the sextet brilliantly .
Each high note had the crowd in ecstasy so that it stopped the show midway in the `` Mad Scene '' , but the real reason was a realization of the extraordinary performance unfolding at the moment .
Miss Sutherland appeared almost as another person in this scene : A much more girlish Lucia , a sensational coloratura who ran across stage while singing , and an actress immersed in her role .
What followed the outburst brought almost breathless silence as Miss Sutherland revealed her mastery of a voice probably unique among sopranos today .
This big , flexible voice with uncommon range has been superbly disciplined .
Nervousness at the start must have caused the blemishes of her first scene , or she may warm up slowly .
In the fullness of her vocal splendor , however , she could sing the famous scene magnificently .
Technically it was fascinating , aurally spell-binding , and dramatically quite realistic .
Many years have passed since a Metropolitan audience heard anything comparable .
Her debut over , perhaps the earlier scenes will emerge equally fine .
The performance also marked the debut of a most promising young conductor , Silvio Varviso .
He injected more vitality into the score than it has revealed in many years .
He may respect too much the Italian tradition of letting singers hold on to their notes , but to restrain them in a singers' opera may be quite difficult .
Richard Tucker sang Edgardo in glorious voice .
His bel canto style gave the performance a special distinction .
The remainder of the cast fulfilled its assignments no more than satisfactorily just as the old production and limited stage direction proved only serviceable .
Miss Sutherland first sang Lucia at Covent Garden in 1959 .
( The first Metropolitan Opera broadcast on Dec. 9 will introduce her as Lucia .
) She has since turned to Bellini , whose opera `` Beatrice Di Tenda '' in a concert version with the American Opera Society introduced her to New York last season .
She will sing `` La Sonambula '' with it here next week .
Anyone for musical Ping-pong ? ?
It's really quite fun -- as long as you like games .
You will need a stereo music system , with speakers preferably placed at least seven or eight feet apart , and one or more of the new London `` Phase 4 '' records .
There are 12 of these to choose from , all of them of popular music except for the star release , Pass In Review ( SP-44001 ) .
This features the marching songs of several nations , recorded as though the various national bands were marching by your reviewing stand .
Complete with crowd effects , interruptions by jet planes , and sundry other touches of realism , this disc displays London's new technique to the best effect .
All of the jackets carry a fairly technical and detailed explanation of this new recording program .
No reference is made to the possibility of recording other than popular music in this manner , and it would not seem to lend itself well to serious music .
Directionality is greatly exaggerated most of the time ; ;
but when the sounds of the two speakers are allowed to mix , there is excellent depth and dimension to the music .
You definitely hear some of the instruments close up and others farther back , with the difference in placement apparently more distinct than would result from the nearer instruments merely being louder than the ones farther back .
This is a characteristic of good stereo recording and one of its tremendous advantages over monaural sound .
London explains that the very distinct directional effect in the Phase 4 series is due in large part to their novel methods of microphoning and recording the music on a number of separate tape channels .
These are then mixed by their sound engineers with the active co-operation of the musical staff and combined into the final two channels which are impressed on the record .
In some of the numbers the instrumental parts have even been recorded at different times and then later combined on the master tape to produce special effects .
Some clue to the character of London's approach in these discs may be gained immediately from the fact that ten of the 12 titles include the word `` percussion '' or `` percussive '' .
Drums , xylophones , castanets , and other percussive instruments are reproduced remarkably well .
Only too often , however , you have the feeling that you are sitting in a room with some of the instruments lined up on one wall to your left and others facing them on the wall to your right .
They are definitely in the same room with you , but your head starts to swing as though you were sitting on the very edge of a tennis court watching a spirited volley .
The Percussive Twenties ( SP-44006 ) stirs pleasant memories with well-known songs of that day , and Johnny Keating's Kombo gives forth with tingling jazz in Percussive Moods ( SP-44005 ) .
Big Band Percussion ( SP-44002 ) seemed one of the least attractive discs -- the arrangements just didn't have so much character as the others .
There is an extraordinary sense of presence in all of these recordings , apparently obtained at least in part by emphasizing the middle and high frequencies .
The penalty for this is noticeable in the big , bold , brilliant , but brassy piano sounds in Melody And Percussion For Two Pianos ( SP-44007 ) .
All of the releases , however , are recorded at a gratifyingly high level , with resultant masking of any surface noise .
Pass In Review practically guarantees enjoyment , and is a dramatic demonstration of the potentialities of any stereo music system .
Many Hollywood films manage somehow to be authentic , but not realistic .
Strange , but true -- authenticity and realism often aren't related at all .
Almost every film bearing the imprimatur of Hollywood is physically authentic -- in fact , impeccably so .
In any given period piece the costumes , bric-a-brac , vehicles , and decor , bear the stamp of unimpeachable authenticity .
The major studios maintain a cadre of film librarians and research specialists who look to this matter .
During the making recently of an important Biblical film , some 40 volumes of research material and sketches not only of costumes and interiors , but of architectural developments , sports arenas , vehicles , and other paraphernalia were compiled , consulted , and complied with .
But , alas , the authenticity seems to stop at the set's edge .
The drama itself -- and this seems to be lavishly true of Biblical drama -- often has hardly any relationship with authenticity at all .
The storyline , in sort , is wildly unrealistic .
Thus , in `` The Story Of Ruth '' we have Ruth , Naomi , and Boaz and sets that are meticulously authentic .
But except for a vague adherence to the basic storyline -- i.e. , that Ruth remained with Naomi and finally wound up with Boaz -- the film version has little to do with the Bible .
And in the new `` King Of Kings '' the plot involves intrigues and twists and turns that cannot be traced to the Gospels .
Earlier this month Edward R. Murrow , director of the United States Information Agency , came to Hollywood and had dinner with more than 100 leaders of the motion picture industry .
He talked about unauthentic storylines too .
He intimated that they weren't doing the country much good in the Cold War .
And to an industry that prides itself on authenticity , he urged greater realism .
`` In many corners of the globe '' , he said , `` the major source of impressions about this country are in the movies they meet .
Would we want a future-day Gibbon or Macaulay recounting the saga of America with movies as his prime source of knowledge ? ?
Yet for much of the globe , Hollywood is just that -- prime , if not sole , source of knowledge .
If a man totally ignorant of America were to judge our land and its civilization based on Hollywood alone , what conclusions do you think he might come to ? ?
Francois D'Albert , Hungarian-born violinist who made his New York debut three years ago , played a return engagement last night in Judson Hall .
He is now president of the Chicago Conservatory College .
His pianist was Donald Jenni , a faculty member at DePaul University .
The acoustics of the small hall had been misgauged by the artists , so that for the first half of the program , when the piano was partially open , Mr. Jenni's playing was too loud .
In vying with him , Mr. D'Albert also seemed to be overdriving his tone .
This was not an overriding drawback to enjoyment of the performances , however , except in the case of the opening work , Mozart's Sonata in A ( K. 526 ) , which clattered along noisily in an unrelieved fashion .
Brahm's Sonata in A , although also vigorous , stood up well under the two artists' strong , large-scale treatment .
Mr. D'Albert has a firm , attractive tone , which eschews an overly sweet vibrato .
He made the most of the long Brahmsian phrases , and by the directness and drive of his playing gave the work a handsome performance .
A Sonata For Violin And Piano , called `` Bella Bella '' , by Robert Fleming , was given its first United States performance .
The title refers to the nickname given his wife by the composer , who is also a member of the National Film Board of Canada .
The work's two movements , one melodically sentimental , the other brightly capricious , are clever enough in a Ravel-like style , but they rehash a wornout idiom .
They might well indicate conjugal felicity , but in musical terms that smack of Hollywood .
Works by Dohnanyi , Hubay , Mr. D'Albert himself and Paganini , indicated that the violinist had some virtuoso fireworks up his sleeve as well as a reserved attitude toward a lyric phrase .
Standard items by Sarasate and Saint-Saens completed the program .
In recent years Anna Xydis has played with the New York Philharmonic and at Lewisohn Stadium , but her program last night at Town Hall was the Greek-born pianist's first New York recital since 1948 .
Miss Xydis has a natural affinity for the keyboard , and in the twenty years since her debut here she has gained the authority and inner assurance that lead to audience control .
And the tone she commands is always beautiful in sound .
Since she also has considerable technical virtuosity and a feeling for music in the romantic tradition , Miss Xydis gave her listeners a good deal of pleasure .
She played with style and a touch of the grand manner , and every piece she performed was especially effective in its closing measures .
The second half of her program was devoted to Russian composers of this century .
It was in them that Miss Xydis was at her best .
The Rachmaninoff Prelude No. 12 , Op. 32 , for instance , gave her an opportunity to exploit one of her special facilities -- the ability to produce fine deep-sounding bass tones while contrasting them simultaneously with fine silver filagree in the treble .
The four Kabalevsky Preludes were also assured , rich in color and songful .
And the Prokofieff Seventh Sonata had the combination of romanticism and modern bravura that Prokofieff needs .
Miss Xydis' earlier selections were Mendelssohn's Variations Serieuses , in which each variation was nicely set off from the others ; ;
Haydn's Sonata in E minor , which was unfailingly pleasant in sound , and Chopin's Sonata in B flat minor .
A memory lapse in the last somewhat marred the pianist's performance .
So , what was the deepest music on her program had the poorest showing .
Miss Xydis was best when she did not need to be too probing .
All the generals who held important commands in World War 2 , did not write books .
It only seems as if they did .
And the best books by generals were not necessarily the first ones written .
One of the very best is only now published in this country , five years after its first publication in England .
It is `` Defeat Into Victory '' , by Field Marshal Viscount Slim .
A long book heavily weighted with military technicalities , in this edition it is neither so long nor so technical as it was originally .
Field Marshal Slim has abridged it for the benefit of `` those who , finding not so great an attraction in accounts of military moves and counter-moves , are more interested in men and their reactions to stress , hardship and danger '' .
The man whose reactions and conclusions get the most space is , of course , the Field Marshal himself .
William Joseph Slim , First Viscount Slim , former Governor General of Australia , was the principal British commander in the field during the Burma War .
He had been a corps commander during the disastrous defeat and retreat of 1942 when the ill-prepared , ill-equipped British forces `` were outmaneuvered , outfought and outgeneraled '' .
He returned in command of an international army of Gurkhas , Indians , Africans , Chinese and British .
And in a series of bitterly fought battles in the jungles and hills and along the great rivers of Burma he waged one of the most brilliant campaigns of the war .
`` The Forgotten War '' his soldiers called the Burma fighting because the war in Africa and Europe enjoyed priorities in equipment and in headlines .
Parts of `` Defeat Into Victory '' are a tangle of Burmese place names and military units , but a little application makes everything clear enough .
On the whole this is an interesting and exceptionally well-written book .
Field Marshal Slim is striking in description , amusing in many anecdotes .
He has a pleasant sense of humor and is modest enough to admit mistakes and even `` a cardinal error '' .
He praises many individuals generously .
He himself seems to be tough , tireless , able and intelligent , more intellectual and self-critical than most soldiers .
Remaking an army to win
`` Defeat Into Victory '' is a dramatic and lively military narrative .
But it is most interesting in its account of the unending problems of high command , of decisions and their reasons , of the myriad matters that demand attention in addition to battle action .
Before he could return to Burma , Field Marshal Slim had to rally the defeated remnants of a discouraged army and unite them with fresh recruits .
His remarks about training , discipline , morale , leadership and command are enlightening .
He believed in making inspiring speeches and he made a great many .
He believed in being seen near the front lines and he was there .
For general morale reasons and to encourage the efforts of his supply officers , when food was short for combat troops he cut the rations of his headquarters staff accordingly .
Other crucial matters required constant supervision : labor and all noncombatant troops , whose morale was vital , too ; ;
administrative organization and delicate diplomatic relations with Top Brass -- British , American and Chinese ; ;
health , hygiene , medical aid and preventive medicine ; ;
hospitals ( inadequate ) and nurses ( scanty ) ; ;
food and military supplies ; ;
logistics and transport ; ;
airdrops and airstrips ; ;
roads and river barges to be built .
Expected of a commander
Commenting on these and other matters , Field Marshal Slim makes many frank and provocative remarks :
`` When in doubt as to two courses of action , a general should choose the bolder '' .
`` The commander has failed in his duty if he has not won victory -- for that is his duty '' .
`` It only does harm to talk to troops about new and desirable equipment which others may have but which you cannot give them .
It depresses them .
So I made no mention of air transport until we could get at least some of it '' .
Field Marshal Slim is more impressed by the courage of Japanese soldiers than he is by the ability of their commanders .
Of the Japanese private he says : `` He fought and marched till he died .
If 500 Japanese were ordered to hold a position , we had to kill 495 before it was ours -- and then the last five killed themselves '' .
Brooding about future wars , the Field Marshal has this to say : `` The Asian fighting man is at least equally brave ( as the white ) , usually more careless of death , less encumbered by mental doubts , less troubled by humanitarian sentiment , and not so moved by slaughter and mutilation around him .
He is , by background and living standards , better fitted to endure hardship uncomplainingly , to demand less in the way of subsistence or comfort , and to look after himself when thrown on his own resources '' .
A bunch of young buckaroos from out West , who go by the name of Texas Boys Choir , loped into Town Hall last night and succeeded in corralling the hearts of a sizable audience .
Actually , the program they sang was at least two-thirds serious and high-minded , and they sang it beautifully .
Under the capable direction of the choir's founder , Geroge Bragg , the twenty-six boys made some lovely sounds in an opening group of Renaissance and Baroque madrigals and motets , excerpts from Pergolesi's `` Stabat Mater '' and all of the Britten `` Ceremonial Of Carols '' .
Their singing was well-balanced , clear and , within obvious limitations , extremely pleasing .
The limitations are those one expects from untrained and unsettled voices -- an occasional shrillness of almost earsplitting intensity , an occasional waver and now and then a bleat .
But Mr. Bragg is a remarkably gifted conductor , and the results he has produced with his boys are generally superior .
Most surprising of all , he has accomplished some prodigies in training for the production of words .
The Latin , for example , was not only clear ; ;
it was even beautiful .
Furthermore , there were solid musical virtues in the interpretation of the music .
Lines came out neatly and in good balance .
Tempos were lively .
The piano accompaniments by Istvan Szelenyi were stylish .
A boy soprano named Dixon Boyd sang a Durante solo motet and a few other passages enchantingly .
Other capable soloists included David Clifton , Joseph Schockler and Pat Thompson .
The final group included folk songs from back home , stomped out , shouted and chanted with irresistible spirit and in cowboy costume .
Boys will be boys , and Texans will be Texans .
The combination proved quite irresistible last night .
The Polish song and dance company called Mazowsze , after the region of Poland , where it has its headquarters , opened a three-week engagement at the City Center last night .
A thoroughly ingratiating company it is , and when the final curtain falls you may suddenly realize that you have been sitting with a broad grin on your face all evening .
Not that it is all funny , by any means , though some of it is definitely so , but simply that the dancers are young and handsome , high-spirited and communicative , and the program itself is as vivacious as it is varied .
There is no use at all in trying to follow it dance by dance and title by title , for it has a kind of nonstop format , and moves along in an admirable continuity that demands no pauses for identification .
The material is all basically of folk origin , gleaned from every section of Poland .
But under the direction of Mira Ziminska-Sygietynska , who with her late husband founded the organization in 1948 , it has all been put into theatrical form , treated selectively , choreographed specifically for presentation to spectators , and performed altogether professionally .
Under the surface of the wide range of folk movements is apparent a sound technical ballet training , and an equally professional sense of performing .
Since the organization was created thirteen years ago , it is obvious that this is not the original company ; ;
it is more likely the sons and daughters of that company .
The girls are charming children and the men are wonderfully vital and engaging youngsters .
The stage is constantly full of them ; ;
indeed , there are never fewer than eight of them on stage , and that is only for the more intimate numbers .
They can be exuberant or sentimental , flirtatious or funny , but the only thing they seem unable to be is dull .
To pick out particular numbers is something of a problem , but one or two identifiable items are too conspicuously excellent to be missed .
There is , for example , a stunning Krakowiak that closes the first act ; ;
the mazurka choreographed by Witold Zapala to music from Moniuszko's opera , `` Strasny Dwor' , may be the most beautiful mazurka you are likely ever to see ; ;
there is an enchanting polonaise ; ;
and the dances and songs from the Tatras contain a magnificent dance for the men .
Everywhere there are little touches of humor , and the leader of the on-stage band of musicians is an ebullient comedian who plays all sorts of odd instruments with winning warmth .
The Theatre-by-the-Sea , Matunuck , presents `` King Of Hearts '' by Jean Kerr and Eleanor Brooke .
Directed by Michael Murray ; ;
settings by William David Roberts .
The cast :
Producer John Holmes has chosen a delightful comedy for his season's opener at Matunuck in Jean Kerr's `` King Of Hearts '' .
The dialogue is sharp , witty and candid -- typical `` don't eat the daisies '' material -- which has stamped the author throughout her books and plays , and it was obvious that the Theatre-by-the-Sea audience liked it .
The story is of a famous strip cartoonist , an arty individual , whose specialty is the American boy and who adopts a 10-year-old to provide him with fresh idea material .
This is when his troubles begin , not to mention a fledgling artist who he hires , and who turns out to have ideas of his own , with particular respect to the hero's sweetheart-secretary .
John Heffernan , playing Larry Larkin , the cartoonist , carries the show in marvelous fashion .
His portrayal of an edgy head-in-the-clouds artist is virtually flawless .
This may be unfortunate , perhaps , from the standpoint of David Hedison , Providence's contribution to Hollywood , who is appearing by special arrangement with 20th Century-Fox .
Not that Mr. Hedison does not make the most of his role .
He does , and more .
But the book is written around a somewhat dizzy cartoonist , and it has to be that way .
A word should be said for Gary Morgan , a Broadway youngster who , as the adopted son , makes life miserable for nearly everybody and Larkin in particular .
And for his playmate , Francis Coletta of West Warwick , who has a bit part , Billy .
On the whole , audiences will like this performance .
It is a tremendous book , lively , constantly moving , and the Matunuck cast does well by it .
The Newport Playhouse presents `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' by John Osborne and Anthony Creighton , directed by Wallace Gray .
The cast :
The angriest young man in Newport last night was at the Playhouse , where `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' opened as the jazz festival closed .
For the hero of this work by John Osborne and Anthony Creighton is a chap embittered by more than the lack of beer during a jam session .
He's mad at a world he did not make .
Furthermore , he's something of a scoundrel , an artist whose mind and feelings are all finger-tips .
This is in contrast to the family with whom he boards .
They not only think and feel cliches but live cliches as well .
It is into this household , one eroded by irritations that have tortured the souls out of its people , that George Dillon enters at the beginning of the play .
An unsuccessful playwright and actor , he has faith only in himself and in a talent he is not sure exists .
By the end of the third act , the artist is dead but the body lingers on , a shell among other shells .
Not altogether a successful play , `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' overcomes through sheer vitality and power what in a lesser work might be crippling .
It is awfully talky , for instance , and not all of the talk is terribly impressive .
But it strikes sparks on occasion and their light causes all else to be forgotten .
There is a fine second act , as an example , one in which Samuel Groom , as Dillon , has an opportunity to blaze away in one impassioned passage after another .
This is an exciting young actor to watch .
Just as exciting but in a more technically proficient way is Laura Stuart , whose complete control of her every movement is lovely to watch .
Miss Stuart is as intensely vibrant as one could wish , almost an icy shriek threatening to explode at any moment .
Also fine are Sue Lawless , as a mother more protective and belligerent than a female spider and just as destructive , Harold Cherry , as her scratchy spouse , and Hildy Weissman , as a vegetable in human form .
Wallace Gray has directed a difficult play here , usually well , but with just a bit too much physical movement in the first act for my taste .
Still , his finale is put together with taste and a most sensitive projection of that pale sustenance , despair .
The Warwick Musical Theater presents `` Where's Charley ? ?
'' With music and lyrics by Frank Loesser , directed by Christopher Hewett , choreography by Peter Conlow , musical direction by Samuel Matlowsky .
The cast :
Everybody fell in love with Amy again last night at the Warwick Musical Theater , and Shelley Berman was to blame .
One of the finest soft shoe tunes ever invented , `` Once In Love With Amy '' is also , of course , one of the most tantalizingly persistent of light love lyrics to come out of American musical comedy in our era .
So the audience last night was all ears and eyes just after Act 2 , got a rousing opening chorus , `` Where's Charley ? ?
'' , and Berman sifted out all alone on the stage with the ambling chords and beat of the song just whispering into being .
It is greatly to Berman's credit that he made no attempt to outdo Ray Bolger .
He dropped his earlier and delightful hamming , which is about the only way to handle the old war horse called `` Charley's Aunt '' , and let himself go with as appealing an `` Amy '' as anybody could ask .
In brief , Berman played himself and not Bolger .
The big audience started applauding even before he had finished .
The whole production this week is fresh and lively .
