Washington , Feb. 9
-- Acting hastily under White House pressure , the Senate tonight confirmed Robert C. Weaver as the nation's federal housing chief .
Only 11 senators were on the floor and there was no record vote .
A number of scattered `` ayes '' and `` noes '' was heard .
Customary Senate rules were ignored in order to speed approval of the Negro leader as administrator of the housing and home finance agency .
In the last eight years , all Presidential appointments , including those of cabinet rank , have been denied immediate action because of a Senate rule requiring at least a 24 hour delay after they are reported to the floor .
Enforce by demand
The rule was enforced by demand of Sen. Wayne Morse ( D. , Ore. ) in connection with President Eisenhower's cabinet selections in 1953 and President Kennedy's in 1961 .
Oslo
The most positive element to emerge from the Oslo meeting of North Atlantic Treaty Organization Foreign Ministers has been the freer , franker , and wider discussions , animated by much better mutual understanding than in past meetings .
This has been a working session of an organization that , by its very nature , can only proceed along its route step by step and without dramatic changes .
In Oslo , the ministers have met in a climate of candor , and made a genuine attempt to get information and understanding one another's problems .
This atmosphere of understanding has been particularly noticeable where relations are concerned between the `` colonialist '' powers and those who have never , or not for a long time , had such problems .
The nightmare of a clash between those in trouble in Africa , exacerbated by the difficulties , changes , and tragedies facing them , and other allies who intellectually and emotionally disapprove of the circumstances that have brought these troubles about , has been conspicuous by its absence .
Explosion avoided
In the case of Portugal , which a few weeks ago was rumored ready to walk out of the NATO Council should critics of its Angola policy prove harsh , there has been a noticeable relaxation of tension .
The general , remarkably courteous , explanation has left basic positions unchanged , but there has been no explosion in the council .
There should even be no more bitter surprises in the UN General Assembly as to NATO members' votes , since a new ad hoc NATO committee has been set up so that in the future such topics as Angola will be discussed in advance .
Canada alone has been somewhat out of step with the Oslo attempt to get all the allied cars back on the track behind the NATO locomotive .
Even Norway , despite daily but limited manifestations against atomic arms in the heart of this northernmost capital of the alliance , is today closer to the NATO line .
On the negative side of the balance sheet must be set some disappointment that the United States leadership has not been as much in evidence as hoped for .
One diplomat described the tenor of Secretary of State Dean Rusk's speeches as `` inconclusive '' .
But he hastened to add that , if United States policies were not always clear , despite Mr. Rusk's analysis of the various global danger points and setbacks for the West , this may merely mean the new administration has not yet firmly fixed its policy .
Exploratory mood
A certain vagueness may also be caused by tactical appreciation of the fact that the present council meeting is a semipublic affair , with no fewer than six Soviet correspondents accredited .
The impression has nevertheless been given during these three days , despite Mr. Rusk's personal popularity , that the United States delegation came to Oslo in a somewhat tentative and exploratory frame of mind , more ready to listen and learn than to enunciate firm policy on a global scale with detailed application to individual danger spots .
The Secretary of State himself , in his first speech , gave some idea of the tremendous march of events inside and outside the United States that has preoccupied the new administration in the past four months .
But where the core of NATO is concerned , the Secretary of State has not only reiterated the United States' profound attachment to the alliance , `` cornerstone '' of its foreign policy , but has announced that five nuclear submarines will eventually be at NATO's disposal in European waters .
The Secretary of State has also solemnly repeated a warning to the Soviet Union that the United States will not stand for another setback in Berlin , an affirmation once again taken up by the council as a whole .
Conflict surveyed
The secretary's greatest achievement is perhaps the rekindling of NATO realization that East-West friction , wherever it take place around the globe , is in essence the general conflict between two entirely different societies , and must be treated as such without regard to geographical distance or lack of apparent connection .
The annual spring meeting has given an impetus in three main directions : more , deeper , and more timely political consultation within the alliance , the use of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ( when ratified ) as a method of coordinating aid to the underdeveloped countries , and the need for strengthening conventional forces as well as the maintenance of the nuclear deterrent .
This increase in the `` threshold '' , as the conventional forces strengthening is called , will prove one of the alliance's most difficult problems in the months to come .
Each ally will have to carry out obligations long since laid down , but never completely fulfilled .
Washington
The Kennedy administration moves haltingly toward a Geneva conference on Laos just as serious debate over its foreign policy erupts for the first time .
There is little optimism here that the Communists will be any more docile at the conference table than they were in military actions on the ground in Laos .
The United States , State Department officials explain , now is mainly interested in setting up an international inspection system which will prevent Laos from being used as a base for Communist attacks on neighboring Thailand and South Viet Nam .
They count on the aid of the neutral countries attending the Geneva conference to achieve this .
The United States hopes that any future Lao Cabinet would not become Communist dominated .
But it is apparent that no acceptable formula has been found to prevent such a possibility .
Policies modified
The inclination here is to accept a de facto cease-fire in Laos , rather than continue to insist on a verification of the cease-fire by the international control commission before participating in the Geneva conference .
This is another of the modifications of policy on Laos that the Kennedy administration has felt compelled to make .
It excuses these actions as being the chain reaction to basic errors made in the previous administration .
Its spokesmen insist that there has not been time enough to institute reforms in military and economic aid policies in the critical areas .
But with the months moving on -- and the immediate confrontations with the Communists showing no gain for the free world -- the question arises :
How effective have Kennedy administration first foreign policy decisions been in dealing with Communist aggression ? ?
Former Vice-President Richard M. Nixon in Detroit called for a firmer and tougher policy toward the Soviet Union .
He was critical of what he feels is President Kennedy's tendency to be too conciliatory .
GOP restrained
It does not take a Gallup poll to find out that most Republicans in Congress feel this understates the situation as Republicans see it .
They can hardly restrain themselves from raising the question of whether Republicans , if they had been in power , would have made `` amateurish and monumental blunders '' in Cuba .
One Republican senator told this correspondent that he was constantly being asked why he didn't attack the Kennedy administration on this score .
His reply , he said , was that he agreed to the need for unity in the country now .
But he further said that it was better politics to let others question the wisdom of administration policies first .
The Republicans some weeks ago served notice through Senator Thruston B. Morton ( R ) of Kentucky , chairman of the Republican National Committee , that the Kennedy administration would be held responsible if the outcome in Laos was a coalition government susceptible of Communist domination .
Kennedy administration policies also have been assailed now from another direction by 70 Harvard , Boston University , Brandeis , and Massachusetts Institute of Technology educators .
Detente urged
This group pleads with the administration to `` give no further support for the invasion of Cuba by exile groups '' .
It recommends that the United States `` seek instead to detach the Castro regime from the Communist bloc by working for a diplomatic detente and a resumption of trade relations ; ;
and concentrate its constructive efforts on eliminating in other parts of Latin America the social conditions on which totalitarian nationalism feeds '' .
Mr. Nixon , for his part , would oppose intervention in Cuba without specific provocation .
But he did recommend that President Kennedy state clearly that if Communist countries shipped any further arms to Cuba that it would not be tolerated .
Until the Cuban fiasco and the Communist military victories in Laos , almost any observer would have said that President Kennedy had blended a program that respected , generally , the opinions voiced both by Mr. Nixon and the professors .
Aid plans revamped
Very early in his administration he informed the Kremlin through diplomatic channels , a high official source disclosed , that the new administration would react even tougher than the Eisenhower administration would during the formative period of the administration .
Strenuous efforts were made to remove pin pricking from administration statements .
Policies on nuclear test ban negotiations were reviewed and changed .
But thus far there has been no response in kind .
Foreign aid programs were revamped to give greater emphasis to economic aid and to encourage political reform in recipient nations .
In Laos , the administration looked at the Eisenhower administration efforts to show determination by sailing a naval fleet into Southeast Asian waters as a useless gesture .
Again and again it asked the Communists to `` freeze '' the military situation in Laos .
But the Communists aided the Pathet Lao at an even faster rate .
And after several correspondents went into Pathet Lao territory and exposed the huge build-up , administration spokesmen acclaimed them for performing a `` great service '' and laid the matter before the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization .
SEATO was steamed up and prepared contingency plans for coping with the military losses in Laos .
But the Communists never gave sufficient provocation at any one time for the United States to want to risk a limited or an all-out war over Laos .
( Some SEATO nations disagreed , however .
)
There was the further complication that the administration had very early concluded that Laos was ill suited to be an ally , unlike its more determined neighbors , Thailand and South Viet Nam .
The administration declared itself in favor of a neutralized Laos .
The pro-Western government , which the United States had helped in a revolt against the Souvanna Phouma `` neutralist '' government , never did appear to spark much fighting spirit in the Royal Lao Army .
There certainly was not any more energy displayed after it was clear the United States would not back the pro-Western government to the hilt .
If the administration ever had any ideas that it could find an acceptable alternative to Prince Souvanna Phouma , whom it felt was too trusting of Communists , it gradually had to relinquish them .
One factor was the statement of Senator J. W. Fulbright ( D ) of Arkansas , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
He declared on March 25 that the United States had erred a year and a half ago by `` encouraging the removal '' of Prince Souvanna .
Washington
The White House is taking extraordinary steps to check the rapid growth of juvenile delinquency in the United States .
The President is deeply concerned over this problem and its effect upon the `` vitality of the nation '' .
In an important assertion of national leadership in this field , he has issued an executive order establishing the President's committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Crime , to be supported and assisted by a Citizens Advisory Council of recognized authorities on juvenile problems .
The President asks the support and cooperation of Congress in his efforts through the enactment of legislation to provide federal grants to states for specified efforts in combating this disturbing crime trend .
Offenses multiply
The President has also called upon the Attorney General , the Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , and the Secretary of Labor to coordinate their efforts `` in the development of a program of federal leadership to assist states and local communities in their efforts to cope with the problem .
Simultaneously the President announced Thursday the appointment of David L. Hackett , a special assistant to the Attorney General , as executive director of the new Committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Youth Crime .
His sense of urgency in this matter stems from the fact that court cases and juvenile arrests have more than doubled since 1948 , each year showing an increase in offenders .
Among arrests reported by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1959 , about half for burglary and larceny involved persons under 18 years of age .
East Providence should organize its civil defense setup and begin by appointing a full-time director , Raymond H. Hawksley , the present city CD head , believes .
Mr. Hawksley said yesterday he would be willing to go before the city council `` or anyone else locally '' to outline his proposal at the earliest possible time .
East Providence now has no civil defense program .
Mr. Hawksley , the state's general treasurer , has been a part-time CD director in the city for the last nine years .
He is not interested in being named a full-time director .
Noting that President Kennedy has handed the Defense Department the major responsibility for the nation's civil defense program , Mr. Hawksley said the federal government would pay half the salary of a full-time local director .
He expressed the opinion the city could hire a CD director for about $3,500 a year and would only have to put up half that amount on a matching fund basis to defray the salary costs .
Mr. Hawksley said he believed there are a number of qualified city residents who would be willing to take the full-time CD job .
One of these men is former Fire Chief John A. Laughlin , he said .
Along with a director , the city should provide a CD headquarters so that pertinent information about the local organization would be centralized .
Mr. Hawksley said .
One advantage that would come to the city in having a full-time director , he said , is that East Providence would become eligible to apply to the federal government for financial aid in purchasing equipment needed for a sound civil defense program .
Matching funds also can be obtained for procurement of such items as radios , sirens and rescue trucks , he said .
Mr. Hawksley believes that East Providence could use two more rescue trucks , similar to the CD vehicle obtained several years ago and now detailed to the Central Fire Station .
He would assign one of the rescue trucks to the Riverside section of the city and the other to the Rumford area .
Speaking of the present status of civil defense in the city , Mr. Hawksley said he would be willing to bet that not more than one person in a hundred would know what to do or where to go in the event of an enemy attack .
The Narragansett Race Track grounds is one assembly point , he said , and a drive-in theater in Seekonk would be another .
Riverside residents would go to the Seekonk assembly point .
Mr. Hawksley said he was not critical of city residents for not knowing what to do or where to assemble in case of an air attack .
Such vital information , he said , has to be made available to the public frequently and at regular intervals for residents to know .
If the city council fails to consider appointment of a full-time CD director , Mr. Hawksley said , then he plans to call a meeting early in September so that a civil defense organization will be developed locally .
One of the first things he would do , he said , would be to organize classes in first aid .
Other steps would be developed after information drifts down to the local level from the federal government .
Rhode Island is going to examine its Sunday sales law with possible revisions in mind .
Governor Notte said last night he plans to name a committee to make the study and come up with recommendations for possible changes in time for the next session of the General Assembly .
The governor's move into the so-called `` blue law '' controversy came in the form of a letter to Miss Mary R. Grant , deputy city clerk of Central Falls .
A copy was released to the press .
Mr. Notte was responding to a resolution adopted by the Central Falls City Council on July 10 and sent to the state house by Miss Grant .
The resolution urges the governor to have a complete study of the Sunday sales laws made with an eye to their revision at the next session of the legislature .
While the city council suggested that the Legislative Council might perform the review , Mr. Notte said that instead he will take up the matter with Atty. Gen. J. Joseph Nugent to get `` the benefit of his views '' .
He will then appoint the study committee with Mr. Nugent's cooperation , the governor said .
`` I would expect the proposed committee to hold public hearings '' , Mr. Notte said , `` to obtain the views of the general public and religious , labor and special-interest groups affected by these laws '' .
The governor wrote Miss Grant that he has been concerned for some time `` with the continuous problem which confronts our local and state law enforcement officers as a result of the laws regulating Sunday sales '' .
The attorney general has advised local police that it is their duty to enforce the blue laws .
Should there be evidence they are shirking , he has said , the state police will step into the situation .
There has been more activity across the state line in Massachusetts than in Rhode Island in recent weeks toward enforcement of the Sunday sales laws .
The statutes , similar in both the Bay State and Rhode Island and dating back in some instances to colonial times , severely limit the types of merchandise that may be sold on the Sabbath .
The Central Falls City Council expressed concern especially that more foods be placed on the eligible list and that neighborhood grocery and variety stores be allowed to do business on Sunday .
The only day they `` have a chance to compete with large supermarkets is on Sunday '' , the council's resolution said .
The small shops `` must be retained , for they provide essential service to the community '' , according to the resolution , which added that they `` also are the source of livelihood for thousands of our neighbors '' .
It declares that Sunday sales licenses provide `` great revenue '' to the local government .
The council advised the governor that `` large supermarkets , factory outlets and department stores not be allowed to do business '' on Sunday .
They `` operate on a volume basis '' , it was contended , `` and are not essential to provide the more limited but vital shopping needs of the community '' .
Liberals and conservatives in both parties -- Democratic and Republican -- should divorce themselves and form two independent parties , George H. Reama , nationally known labor-management expert , said here yesterday .
Mr. Reama told the Rotary Club of Providence at its luncheon at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel that about half of the people in the country want the `` welfare '' type of government and the other half want a free enterprise system .
He suggested that a regrouping of forces might allow the average voter a better pull at the right lever for him on election day .
He said he was `` confessing that I was a member of the Socialist Party in 1910 '' .
That , he added , was when he was `` a very young man , a machinist and toolmaker by trade .
`` That was before I studied law .
Some of my fellow workers were grooming me for an office in the Socialist Party .
The lawyer with whom I studied law steered me off the Socialist track .
He steered me to the right track -- the free enterprise track '' .
He said that when he was a Socialist in 1910 , the party called for government operation of all utilities and the pooling of all resources .
He suggested that without the Socialist Party ever gaining a national victory , most of its original program has come to pass under both major parties .
Mr. Reama , who retired as vice president of the American Screw Co. in 1955 said , `` Both parties in the last election told us that we need a five per cent growth in the gross national product -- but neither told us how to achieve it '' .
He said he favors wage increases for workers -- `` but manufacturers are caught in a profit squeeze '' -- and raises should only come when the public is conditioned to higher prices , he added .
Indicating the way in which he has turned his back on his 1910 philosophy , Mr. Reama said : `` A Socialist is a person who believes in dividing everything he does not own '' .
Mr. Reama , far from really being retired , is engaged in industrial relations counseling .
A petition bearing the signatures of more than 1,700 Johnston taxpayers was presented to the town council last night as what is hoped will be the first step in obtaining a home rule charter for the town .
William A. Martinelli , chairman of the Citizens Group of Johnston , transferred the petitions from his left hand to his right hand after the council voted to accept them at the suggestion of Council President Raymond Fortin Sr. .
The law which governs home rule charter petitions states that they must be referred to the chairman of the board of canvassers for verification of the signatures within 10 days and Mr. Martinelli happens to hold that post .
Mr. Martinelli explained that there should be more than enough signatures to assure the scheduling of a vote on the home rule charter and possible election of a nine member charter commission within 70 days .
He explained that by law the council must establish procedures for a vote on the issue within 60 days after the board of canvassers completes its work .
A difference of opinion arose between Mr. Martinelli and John P. Bourcier , town solicitor , over the exact manner in which the vote is handled .
Mr. Martinelli has , in recent weeks , been of the opinion that a special town meeting would be called for the vote , while Mr. Bourcier said that a special election might be called instead .
Mr. Bourcier said that he had consulted several Superior Court justices in the last week and received opinions favoring both procedures .
He assured Mr. Martinelli and the council that he would study the correct method and report back to the council as soon as possible .
Mr. Martinelli said yesterday that the Citizens Group of Johnston will meet again July 24 to plan further strategy in the charter movement .
He said that the group has no candidates for the charter commission in mind at present , but that it will undoubtedly endorse candidates when the time comes .
`` After inspiring this , I think we should certainly follow through on it '' , he declared .
`` It has become our responsibility and I hope that the Citizens Group will spearhead the movement '' .
He said he would not be surprised if some of the more than 30 members of the group are interested in running on the required non-partisan ballot for posts on the charter commission .
`` Our most immediate goal is to increase public awareness of the movement '' , he indicated , `` and to tell them what this will mean for the town '' .
He expects that if the present timetable is followed a vote will be scheduled during the last week in September .
Some opposition to the home rule movement started to be heard yesterday , with spokesmen for the town's insurgent Democratic leadership speaking out against the home rule charter in favor of the model municipal league charter .
Increasing opposition can be expected in coming weeks , it was indicated .
Misunderstanding of the real meaning of a home rule charter was cited as a factor which has caused the Citizens Group to obtain signatures under what were termed `` false pretenses '' .
Several signers affixed their names , it was learned , after being told that no tax increase would be possible without consent of the General Assembly and that a provision could be included in the charter to have the town take over the Johnston Sanitary District sewer system .
Action on a new ordinance permitting motorists who plead guilty to minor traffic offenses to pay fines at the local police station may be taken at Monday's special North Providence Town Council meeting .
Council president Frank SanAntonio said yesterday he may ask the council to formally request Town Solicitor Michael A. Abatuno to draft the ordinance .
At the last session of the General Assembly , the town was authorized to adopt such an ordinance as a means of making enforcement of minor offenses more effective .
Nothing has been done yet to take advantage of the enabling legislation .
At present all offenses must be taken to Sixth District Court for disposition .
Local police have hesitated to prosecute them because of the heavy court costs involved even for the simplest offense .
Plainfield
-- James P. Mitchell and Sen. Walter H. Jones R-Bergen , last night disagreed on the value of using as a campaign issue a remark by Richard J. Hughes , Democratic gubernatorial candidate , that the GOP is `` Campaigning on the carcass of Eisenhower Republicanism '' .
Mitchell was for using it , Jones against , and Sen. Wayne Dumont Jr. R-Warren did not mention it when the three Republican gubernatorial candidates spoke at staggered intervals before 100 persons at the Park Hotel .
The controversial remark was first made Sunday by Hughes at a Westfield Young Democratic Club cocktail party at the Scotch Plains Country Club .
It was greeted with a chorus of boos by 500 women in Trenton Monday at a forum of the State Federation of Women's Clubs .
Hughes said Monday , `` It is the apparent intention of the Republican Party to campaign on the carcass of what they call Eisenhower Republicanism , but the heart stopped beating and the lifeblood congealed after Eisenhower retired .
Now he's gone , the Republican Party is not going to be able to sell the tattered remains to the people of the state '' .
Sunday he had added , `` We can love Eisenhower the man , even if we considered him a mediocre president but there is nothing left of the Republican Party without his leadership '' .
Mitchell said the statement should become a major issue in the primary and the fall campaign .
`` How can a man with any degree of common decency charge this '' ? ?
He asked .
The former secretary of labor said he was proud to be an Eisenhower Republican `` and proud to have absorbed his philosophy '' while working in his adminstration .
Mitchell said the closeness of the outcome in last fall's Presidential election did not mean that Eisenhower Republicanism was a dead issue .
Regrets attack
Jones said he regretted Hughes had made a personal attack on a past president .
`` He is wrong to inject Eisenhower into this campaign '' , he said , `` because the primary is being waged on state issues and I will not be forced into re-arguing an old national campaign '' .
The audience last night did not respond with either applause or boos to mention of Hughes' remark .
Dumont spoke on the merit of having an open primary .
He then launched into what the issues should be in the campaign .
State aid to schools , the continuance of railroad passenger service , the proper uses of surplus funds of the Port of New York Authority , and making New Jersey attractive to new industry .
Decries joblessness
Mitchell decried the high rate of unemployment in the state and said the Meyner administration and the Republican-controlled State Senate `` Must share the blame for this '' .
Noting that Plainfield last year had lost the Mack Truck Co. plant , he said industry will not come into this state until there is tax reform .
`` But I am not in favor of a sales or state income tax at this time '' , Mitchell said .
Jones , unhappy that the candidates were limited to eight minutes for a speech and no audience questions , saved his barbs for Mitchell .
He said Mitchell is against the centralization of government in Washington but looks to the Kennedy Administration for aid to meet New Jersey school and transportation crises .
`` He calls for help while saying he is against centralization , but you can't have it both ways '' , Jones said .
The state is now faced with the immediate question of raising new taxes whether on utilities , real estate or motor vehicles , he said , `` and I challenge Mitchell to tell the people where he stands on the tax issue '' .
Defends Ike
Earlier , Mitchell said in a statement :
`` I think that all Americans will resent deeply the statements made about President Eisenhower by Richard J. Hughes .
His reference to ' discredited carcass ' or ' tattered remains ' of the president's leadership is an insult to the man who led our forces to victory in the greatest war in all history , to the man who was twice elected overwhelmingly by the American people as president of the United States , and who has been the symbol to the world of the peace-loving intentions of the free nations .
`` I find it hard to understand how anyone seeking a position in public life could demonstrate such poor judgment and bad taste .
`` Such a vicious statement can only have its origin in the desire of a new political candidate to try to make his name known by condemning a man of world stature .
It can only rebound to Mr. Hughes' discredit '' .
Sees Jones ahead
Sen. Charles W. Sandman , R-Cape May , said today Jones will run well ahead of his GOP opponents for the gubernatorial nomination .
Sandman , state campaign chairman for Jones , was addressing a meeting in the Military Park Hotel , Newark , of Essex County leaders and campaign managers for Jones .
Sandman told the gathering that reports from workers on a local level all over the state indicate that Jones will be chosen the Republican Party's nominee with the largest majority given a candidate in recent years .
Sandman said : `` The announcement that Sen. Clifford Case Aj , has decided to spend all his available time campaigning for Mr. Mitchell is a dead giveaway .
It is a desperate effort to prop up a sagging candidate who has proven he cannot answer any questions about New Jersey's problems .
`` We have witnessed in this campaign the effort to project Mr. Mitchell as the image of a unity candidate from Washington .
That failed .
`` We are now witnessing an effort to transfer to Mr. Mitchell some of the glow of Sen. Case's candidacy of last year .
That , too , will fail '' .
Sandman announced the appointment of Mrs. Harriet Copeland Greenfield of 330 Woodland Ave. , Westfield , as state chairman of the Republican Women for Jones Committee .
Mrs. Greenfield is president of the Westfield Women's Republican Club and is a Westfield county committeewoman .
County Supervisor Weldon R. Sheets , who is a candidate for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination , today called for an end to paper ballots in those counties in the state which still use them .
The proposal , Sheets said , represents part of his program for election reforms necessary to make democracy in New Jersey more than a `` lip service word '' .
Sheets said that his proposed law would offer state financing aid for the purchase of voting machines , enabling counties to repay the loan over a 10-year period without interest or charge .
Sheets added that he would ask for exclusive use of voting machines in the state by January , 1964 .
Although he pointed out that mandatory legislation impinging on home rule is basically distasteful , he added that the vital interest in election results transcended county lines .
The candidacy of Mayor James J. Sheeran of West Orange , for the Republican nomination for sheriff of Essex County , was supported today by Edward W. Roos , West Orange public safety commissioner .
Sheeran , a lawyer and former FBI man is running against the Republican organization's candidate , Freeholder William MacDonald , for the vacancy left by the resignation of Neil Duffy , now a member of the State Board of Tax Appeals .
`` My experience as public safety commissioner '' , Roos said , `` has shown me that the office of sheriff is best filled by a man with law enforcement experience , and preferably one who is a lawyer .
Jim Sheeran fits that description '' .
Trenton
-- William J. Seidel , state fire warden in the Department of Conservation and Economic Development , has retired after 36 years of service .
A citation from Conservation Commissioner Salvatore A. Bontempo credits his supervision with a reduction in the number of forest fires in the state .
Seidel joined the department in 1925 as a division fire warden after graduation in 1921 from the University of Michigan with a degree in forestry and employment with private lumber companies .
In October 1944 , he was appointed state warden and chief of the Forest Fire Section .
Under his supervision , the state fire-fighting agency developed such techniques as plowing of fire lines and established a fleet of tractor plows and tractor units for fire fighting .
He also expanded and modernized the radio system with a central control station .
He introduced regular briefing sessions for district fire wardens and first aid training for section wardens .
He is credited with setting up an annual co-operative fire prevention program in co-operation with the Red Cross and State Department of Education .
Boonton
-- Richard J. Hughes made his Morris County debut in his bid for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination here last night with a pledge `` to carry the issues to every corner of the state '' .
He promised nearly 200 Democratic county committee members at the meeting in the Puddingstone Inn : `` When I come back here after the November election you'll think , ' You're my man -- you're the kind of governor we're glad we elected ' '' .
He said , `` We Democrats must resolve our issues on the test of what is right and just , and not what is expedient at the time '' .
Attacks Republicans
In his only attack on the Republicans , Hughes said , `` The three Republican candidates for governor are tripping over their feet for popular slogans to win the primary .
But we'll have a liberal , well planned , forward looking , honest platform .
We'll not talk out of one side of our mouth in Morris County and out of the other side in Hudson .
`` We'll take the truth to the people , and the people will like the truth and elect their candidate and party in November '' .
He said , `` You can see signs of the Republicans' feeble attack on the Meyner administration .
But I shall campaign on the Meyner record to meet the needs of the years ahead '' .
He urged New Jersey to `` become a full partner in the courageous actions of President Kennedy '' .
He called for a greater attraction of industry and a stop to the piracy of industry by Southern states , and a strong fight against discrimination in business and industry .
`` We must keep the bloodstream of New Jersey clean '' , the former Superior Court judge said .
`` To prevent hoodlums from infiltrating the state as they did in the Republican administration in the early 1940s '' .
Calling the Democrats the `` party that lives , breathes and thinks for the good of the people '' , Hughes asked , `` a representative Democratic vote in the primary for a springboard toward victory in November '' .
Hughes supported Gov. Meyner's `` Green Acres '' plan for saving large tracts of open land from the onrush of urban development .
He said legislation for a $60 million bond issue to underwrite the program is expected to be introduced Monday .
Conservation plan
The plan will provide $45 million for purchase of open land by the state .
The other $15 million is to be alloted to municipalities on a matching fund basis .
Hughes said , `` This is not a plan to conquer space -- but to conserve it '' , pointing out the state population has increased 125,000 each year since 1950 .
He said `` Morris County is rapidly changing and unless steps are taken to preserve the green areas , there will be no land left to preserve '' .
Hughes would not comment on tax reforms or other issues in which the Republican candidates are involved .
He said no matter what stand he takes it would be misconstrued that he was sympathetic to one or the other of the Republicans .
`` After the primary '' , he promised , `` I'll be explicit on where I stand to bring you a strong , dynamic administration .
I'm not afraid to tangle with the Republican nominee '' .
Trenton
-- Fifteen members of the Republican State Committee who are retiring -- voluntarily -- this year were honored yesterday by their colleagues .
The outgoing members , whose four-year terms will expire a week after the April 18 primary election , received carved wooden elephants , complete with ivory tusks , to remember the state committee by .
There may be other 1961 state committee retirements come April 18 , but they will be leaving by choice of the Republican voters .
A special presentation was made to Mrs. Geraldine Thompson of Red Bank , who is stepping down after 35 years on the committee .
She also was the original GOP national committeewoman from New Jersey in the early 1920s following adoption of the women's suffrage amendment .
She served one four-year term on the national committee .
Resentment welled up yesterday among Democratic district leaders and some county leaders at reports that Mayor Wagner had decided to seek a third term with Paul R. Screvane and Abraham D. Beame as running mates .
At the same time reaction among anti-organization Democratic leaders and in the Liberal party to the Mayor's reported plan was generally favorable .
Some anti-organization Democrats saw in the program an opportunity to end the bitter internal fight within the Democratic party that has been going on for the last three years .
The resentment among Democratic organization leaders to the reported Wagner plan was directed particularly at the Mayor's efforts to name his own running mates without consulting the leaders .
Some viewed this attempt as evidence that Mr. Wagner regarded himself as bigger than the party .
Opposition reported
Some Democratic district and county leaders are reported trying to induce State Controller Arthur Levitt of Brooklyn to oppose Mr. Wagner for the Mayoral nomination in the Sept. 7 Democratic primary .
These contend there is a serious question as to whether Mr. Wagner has the confidence of the Democratic rank and file in the city .
Their view is that last-minute changes the Mayor is proposing to make in the Democratic ticket only emphasize the weakness of his performance as Mayor .
In an apparent effort to head off such a rival primary slate , Mr. Wagner talked by telephone yesterday with Representative Charles A. Buckley , the Bronx Democratic leader , and with Joseph T. Sharkey , the Brooklyn Democratic leader .
Mayor visits Buckley
As usual , he made no attempt to get in touch with Carmine G. De Sapio , the Manhattan leader .
He is publicly on record as believing Mr. De Sapio should be replaced for the good of the party .
Last night the Mayor visited Mr. Buckley at the Bronx leader's home for a discussion of the situation .
Apparently he believes Mr. Buckley holds the key to the Democratic organization's acceptance of his choices for running mates without a struggle .
In talks with Mr. Buckley last week in Washington , the Mayor apparently received the Bronx leader's assent to dropping Controller Lawrence E. Gerosa , who lives in the Bronx , from this year's ticket .
But Mr. Buckley seems to have assumed he would be given the right to pick Mr. Gerosa's successor .
Screvane and Beame hailed
The Mayor declined in two interviews with reporters yesterday to confirm or deny the reports that he had decided to run and wanted Mr. Screvane , who lives in Queens , to replace Abe Stark , the incumbent , as the candidate for President of the City Council and Mr. Beame , who lives in Brooklyn , to replace Mr. Gerosa as the candidate for Controller .
The Mayor spoke yesterday at the United Irish Counties Feis on the Hunter College Campus in the Bronx .
After his speech , reporters asked him about the report of his political intentions , published in yesterday's New York Times .
