Rabb , the former Louisiana State field general , came off the bench for his debut with the Bills Sunday and directed his new team to a 22-12 upset victory over the Houston Oilers , defending league champions .
`` Just our luck '' ! !
Exclaimed Stram .
`` Buster would solve that quarterback problem just as we head that way '' .
Ramsey has a thing or two to mutter about himself , for the Dallas defensive unit turned in another splendid effort against Denver , and the Texans were able to whip the dangerous Broncs without the fullbacking of a top star , Jack Spikes , though he did the team's place-kicking while nursing a knee injury .
`` Our interior line and out linebackers played exceptionally well '' , said Stram Monday after he and his staff reviewed movies of the game .
`` In fact our whole defensive unit did a good job '' .
The Texans won the game through ball control , with Quarterback Cotton Davidson throwing only 17 passes .
`` We always like to keep the ball as much as we can against Denver because they have such an explosive attack '' , explained Stram .
`` They can be going along , doing little damage , then bang , bang -- they can hit a couple of passes on you for touchdowns and put you in trouble '' .
The Broncs did hit two quick strikes in the final period against the Texans , but Dallas had enough of a lead to hold them off .
The principal tactic in controlling the ball was giving it to Abner Haynes , the flashy halfback .
He was called upon 26 times -- more than all of the other ball-carriers combined -- and delivered 145 yards .
The Texans made themselves a comforting break on the opening kickoff when Denver's Al Carmichael was jarred loose from the ball when Dave Grayson , the speedy halfback , hit him and Guard Al Reynolds claimed it for Dallas .
A quick touchdown resulted .
`` That permitted us to start controlling the ball right away '' , said Stram , quipping , `` I think I'll put that play in the book '' .
The early Southwest Conference football leaders -- Texas , Arkansas and Texas A & M -- made a big dent in the statistics last week .
Texas' 545-yard spree against Washington State gave the Longhorns a 3-game total offense of 1,512 yards ( 1,065 rushing and 447 passing ) a new SWC high .
Arkansas combined 280 yards rushing with 64 yards passing ( on 5 completions in 7 tosses ) and a tough defense to whip TCU , and A & M , with a 38-point bulge against Texas Tech ran up its biggest total loop play since 1950 .
Completing 12 of 15 passes for 174 yards , the Aggies had a total offense of 361 yards .
Texas leads in per-game rushing averages , 355 yards , and passing 149 ( to Baylor's 126 ) , but idle Baylor has the best defensive record ( 187.5 yards per game to Texas' 189 ) .
A & M has the best defense against passes , 34.7 yards per game .
Not satisfied with various unofficial checks on the liveliness of baseballs currently in use , the major leagues have ordered their own tests , which are in progress at Massachusetts Institute of Technology .
Rookie Ron Nischwitz continued his pinpoint pitching Monday night as the Bears made it two straight over Indianapolis , 5-3 .
The husky 6-3 , 205-pound lefthander , was in command all the way before an on-the-scene audience of only 949 and countless of television viewers in the Denver area .
It was Nischwitz' third straight victory of the new season and ran the Grizzlies' winning streak to four straight .
They now lead Louisville by a full game on top of the American Association pack .
Nischwitz fanned six and walked only Charley Hinton in the third inning .
He has given only the one pass in his 27 innings , an unusual characteristic for a southpaw .
The Bears took the lead in the first inning , as they did in Sunday's opener , and never lagged .
Dick McAuliffe cracked the first of his two doubles against Lefty Don Rudolph to open the Bear's attack .
After Al Paschal gruonded out , Jay Cooke walked and Jim McDaniel singled home McAuliffe .
Alusik then moved Cooke across with a line drive to left .
Jay Porter drew a base on balls to fill the bases but Don Wert's smash was knocked down by Rudolph for the putout .
The Bears added two more in the fifth when McAuliffe dropped a double into the leftfield corner , Paschal doubled down the rightfield line and Cooke singled off Phil Shartzer's glove .
Nischwitz was working on a 3-hitter when the Indians bunched three of their eight hits for two runs in the sixth .
Chuck Hinton tripled to the rightfield corner , Cliff Cook and Dan Pavletich singled and Gaines' infield roller accounted for the tallies .
The Bears added their last run in the sixth on Alusik's double and outfield flies by Porter and Wert .
Gaines hammered the ball over the left fence for the third Indianapolis run in the ninth .
Despite the 45-degree weather the game was clicked off in 1:48 , thanks to only three bases on balls and some good infield play .
Chico Ruiz made a spectacular play on Alusik's grounder in the hole in the fourth and Wert came up with some good stops and showed a strong arm at third base .
Bingles and bobbles :
Cliff Cook accounted for three of the Tribe's eight hits .
It was the season's first night game and an obvious refocusing of the lights are in order .
The infield was well flooded but the expanded outfield was much too dark .
Mary Dobbs Tuttle was back at the organ .
Among the spectators was the noted exotic dancer , Patti Waggin who is Mrs. Don Rudolph when off the stage .
Lefty Wyman Carey , another Denver rookie , will be on the mound against veteran John Tsitouris at 8 o'clock Tuesday night .
Ed Donnelly is still bothered by a side injury and will miss his starting turn .
Dallas , Tex. , May 1 -- ( AP )
-- Kenny Lane of Muskegon , Mich. , world's seventh ranked lightweight , had little trouble in taking a unanimous decision over Rip Randall of Tyler , Tex. , here Monday night .
St. Paul-Minneapolis , May 1 -- ( AP )
-- Billy Gardner's line double , which just eluded the diving Minnie Minoso in left field , drove in Jim Lemon with the winning run with two out in the last of the ninth to give the Minnesota Twins a 6-5 victory over the Chicago White Sox Monday .
Lemon was on with his fourth single of the game , a liner to center .
He came all the way around on Gardner's hit before 5777 fans .
It was Gardner's second run batted in of the game and his only ones of the year .
Turk Lown was tagged with the loss , his second against no victories , while Ray Moore won his second game against a single loss .
The Twins tied the score in the sixth inning when Reno Bertoia beat out a high chopper to third base and scored on Lenny Green's double to left .
The White Sox had taken a 5-4 lead in the top of the sixth on a pair of pop fly hits -- a triple by Roy Sievers and single by Camilo Carreon -- a walk and a sacrifice fly .
Jim Landis' 380-foot home run over left in the first inning gave the Sox a 1-0 lead , but Harmon Killebrew came back in the bottom of the first with his second homer in two days with the walking Bob Allison aboard .
Al Smith's 340-blast over left in the fourth -- his fourth homer of the campaign -- tied the score and Carreon's first major league home run in the fifth put the Sox back in front .
A double by Green , Allison's run-scoring 2-baser , an infield single by Lemon and Gardner's solid single to center put the Twins back in front in the last of the fifth .
Ogden , Utah , May 1 -- ( AP )
-- Boston Red Sox Outfielder Jackie Jensen said Monday night he was through playing baseball .
`` I've had it '' , he told a newsman .
`` I know when my reflexes are gone and I'm not going to be any 25th man on the ball club '' .
This was the first word from Jensen on his sudden walkout .
Jensen got only six hits in 46 at-bats for a batting average in the first 12 games .
He took a midnight train out of Cleveland Saturday , without an official word to anybody , and has stayed away from newsmen on his train trip across the nation to Reno , Nev. , where his wife , former Olympic Diving Champion Zoe Ann Olsen , awaited .
She said , when she learned Jackie was heading home : `` I'm just speculating , but I have to think Jack feels he's hurting Boston's chances '' .
The Union Pacific Railroad streamliner , City of San Francisco , stopped in Ogden , Utah , for a few minutes .
Sports Writer Ensign Ritchie of the Ogden Standard Examiner went to his compartment to talk with him .
The conductor said to Ritchie : `` I don't think you want to talk to him .
You'll probably get a ball bat on the head .
He's mad at the world '' .
But Jackie had gone into the station .
Ritchie walked up to him at the magazine stand .
`` I told him who I was and he was quite cold .
But he warmed up after a while .
I told him what Liston had said and he said Liston was a double-crosser and said anything he ( Liston ) got was through a keyhole .
He said he had never talked to Liston '' .
Liston is Bill Liston , baseball writer for the Boston Traveler , who quoted Jensen as saying :
`` I can't hit anymore .
I can't run .
I can't throw .
Suddenly my reflexes are gone .
Just when it seems baseball might be losing its grip on the masses up pops heroics to start millions of tongues to wagging .
And so it was over the weekend what with 40-year-old Warren Spahn pitching his no-hit masterpiece against the Giants and the Giants' Willie Mays retaliating with a record-tying 4-homer spree Sunday .
Both , of course , were remarkable feats and further embossed the fact that baseball rightfully is the national pastime .
Of the two cherished achievements the elderly Spahn's hitless pitching probably reached the most hearts .
It was a real stimulant to a lot of guys I know who have moved past the 2-score-year milestone .
And one of the Milwaukee rookies sighed and remarked , `` Wish I was 40 , and a top-grade big leaguer .
The modest and happy Spahn waved off his new laurels as one of those good days .
But there surely can be no doubt about the slender southpaw belonging with the all-time great lefthanders in the game's history .
Yes , with Bob Grove , Carl Hubbell , Herb Pennock , Art Nehf , Vernon Gomez , et al .
Spahn not only is a superior pitcher but a gentlemanly fine fellow , a ball player's ball player , as they say in the trade .
I remember his beardown performance in a meaningless exhibition game at Bears Stadium Oct. 14 , 1951 , before a new record crowd for the period of 18,792 .
`` Spahnie doesn't know how to merely go through the motions '' , remarked Enos Slaughter , another all-out guy , who played rightfield that day and popped one over the clubhouse .
The spectacular Mays , who reaches a decade in the big leagues come May 25 , joined six other sluggers who walloped four home runs in a span of nine innings .
Incidentally , only two did it before a home audience .
Bobby Lowe of Boston was the first to hit four at home and Gil Hodges turned the trick in Brooklyn's Ebbetts Field .
Ed Delahanty and Chuck Klein of the Phillies , the Braves' Joe Adcock , Lou Gehrig of the Yankees , Pat Seerey of the White Sox and Rocky Colavito , then with Cleveland , made their history on the road .
Willie's big day revived the running argument about the relative merits of Mays and Mickey Mantle .
This is an issue which boils down to a matter of opinion , depending on whether you're an American or National fan and anti or pro-Yankee .
The record books , however , would favor the Giants' ace .
In four of his nine previous seasons Mays hit as many as 25 home runs and stole as many as 25 bases .
Once the figure was 30-30 .
Willie's lifetime batting average of is 11 points beyond Mickey's .
The Giants who had been anemic with the bat in their windy Candlestick Park suddenly found the formula in Milwaukee's park .
It will forever be a baseball mystery how a team will suddenly start hitting after a distressing slump .
The Denver-area TV audience was privileged to see Mays' four home runs , thanks to a new arrangement made by Bob Howsam that the games are not to be blacked out when his Bears are playing at home .
This rule providing for a blackout of televised baseball 30 minutes before the start of a major or minor league game in any area comes from the game's top rulers .
The last couple of years the Bears management got the business from the `` Living Room Athletic Club '' when games were cut off .
Actually they were helpless to do anything about the nationwide policy .
This year , I am told , the CBS network will continue to abide by the rule but NBC will play to a conclusion here .
There are two more Sunday afternoons when the situation will arise .
It is an irritable rule that does baseball more harm than good , especially at the minor league level .
You would be surprised how many fans purposely stayed away from Bears Stadium last year because of the television policy .
This dissatisfaction led to Howsam's request that the video not be terminated before the end of the game .
Cincinnati , Ohio ( AP )
-- The powerful New York Yankees won their 19th world series in a 5-game romp over outclassed Cincinnati , crushing the Reds in a humiliating 13-5 barrage Monday in the loosely played finale .
With Mickey Mantle and Yogi Berra both out of action due to injuries , the American League champs still mounted a 15-hit attack against a parade of eight Cincinnati pitchers , the most ever used by one team in a series game .
Johnny Blanchard , Mantle's replacement , slammed a 2-run homer as the Yankees routed loser Joey Jay in a 5-run first inning .
Hector Lopez , subbing for Berra , smashed a 3-run homer off Bill Henry during another 5-run explosion in the fourth .
The Yanks also took advantage of three Cincinnati errors .
The crowd of 32,589 had only two chances to applaud .
In the third Frank Robinson hammered a long home run deep into the corner of the bleachers in right center , about 400 feet away , with two men on .
Momentarily the Reds were back in the ball game , trailing only 6-3 , but the drive fizzled when John Edwards fouled out with men on second and third and two out .
In the fifth , Wally Post slashed a 2-run homer off Bud Daley , but by that time the score was 11-5 and it really didn't matter .
The Yankee triumph made Ralph Houk only the third man to lead a team to both a pennant and a World Series victory in his first year as a manager .
Only Bucky Harris , the `` boy-manager '' of Washington in 1924 , and Eddie Dyer of the St. Louis Cardinals in 1946 had accomplished the feat .
Philadelphia , Jan. 23
-- Nick Skorich , the line coach for the football champion Philadelphia Eagles , was elevated today to head coach .
Skorich received a three-year contract at a salary believed to be between $20,000 and $25,000 a year .
He succeeds Buck Shaw , who retired at the end of last season .
The appointment was announced at a news conference at which Skorich said he would retain two members of Shaw's staff -- Jerry Williams and Charlie Gauer .
Williams is a defensive coach .
Gauer works with the ends .
Choice was expected
The selection had been expected .
Skorich was considered the logical choice after the club gave Norm Van Brocklin permission to seek the head coaching job with the Minnesota Vikings , the newest National Football League entry .
Van Brocklin , the quarterback who led the Eagles to the title , was signed by the Vikings last Wednesday .
Philadelphia permitted him to seek a better connection after he had refused to reconsider his decision to end his career as a player .
With Skorich at the helm , the Eagles are expected to put more emphasis on running , rather than passing .
In the past the club depended largely on Van Brocklin's aerials .
Skorich , however , is a strong advocate of a balanced attack -- split between running and passing .
Coach played 3 years
Skorich , who is 39 years old , played football at Cincinnati University and then had a three-year professional career as a lineman under Jock Sutherland with the Pittsburgh Steelers .
An injury forced Skorich to quit after the 1948 season .
He began his coaching career at Pittsburgh Central Catholic High School in 1949 .
He remained there for four years before moving to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy , N. Y. .
He was there one season before rejoining the Steelers as an assistant coach .
Four years later he resigned to take a similar job with the Green Bay Packers .
The Eagles signed him for Shaw's staff in 1959 .
Skorich began his new job auspiciously today .
At a ceremony in the reception room of Mayor Richardson Dilworth , the Eagles were honored for winning the championship .
Shaw and Skorich headed a group of players , coaches and team officials who received an engrossed copy of an official city citation and a pair of silver cufflinks shaped like a football .
With the announcement of a `` special achievement award '' to William A. ( ( Bill ) Shea , the awards list was completed yesterday for Sunday night's thirty-eighth annual dinner and show of the New York Chapter , Baseball Writers' Association of America , at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel .
Shea , the chairman of Mayor Wagner's Baseball Committee , will be joined on the dais by Warren Spahn , the southpaw pitching ace of the Milwaukee Braves ; ;
Frank Graham , the Journal-American sports columnist ; ;
Bill Mazeroski , the World Series hero of the Pittsburgh Pirates , and Casey Stengel , the former manager of the Yankees .
Stengel will receive the Ben Epstein Good Guy Award .
Mazeroski , whose homer beat the Yankees in the final series game , will receive the Babe Ruth Award as the outstanding player in the 1960 world series .
Graham will be recognized for his meritorious service to baseball and will get the William J. Slocum Memorial Award .
To Spahn will go the Sid Mercer Memorial Award as the chapter's player of the year .
Show follows ceremonies
A crowd of 1,400 is expected for the ceremonies , which will be followed by the show in which the writers will lampoon baseball personalities in skit , dance and song .
The 53-year-old Shea , a prominent corporation lawyer with a sports background , is generally recognized as the man most responsible for the imminent return of a National League club to New York .
Named by Mayor Wagner three years ago to head a committee that included James A. Farley , Bernard Gimbel and Clint Blume , Shea worked relentlessly .
His goal was to obtain a National League team for this city .
The departure of the Giants and the Dodgers to California left New York with only the Yankees .
Despite countless barriers and disappointments , Shea moved forward .
When he was unable to bring about immediate expansion , he sought to convince another National League club to move here .
When that failed , he enlisted Branch Rickey's aid in the formation of a third major league , the Continental , with New York as the key franchise .
The Continental League never got off the ground , but after two years it forced the existing majors to expand .
Flushing stadium in works
The New York franchise is headed by Mrs. Charles Shipman Payson .
A big-league municipal stadium at Flushing Meadow Park is in the works , and once the lease is signed the local club will be formally recognized by Commissioner Ford C. Frick .
Shea's efforts figure prominently in the new stadium .
Shea and his wife , Nori , make their home at Sands Point , L. I. .
Bill Jr. , 20 , Kathy , 15 , and Patricia , 9 , round out the Shea family .
Shea was born in Manhattan .
He attended New York University before switching to Georgetown University in Washington .
He played basketball there while working toward a law degree .
Later , Shea owned and operated the Long Island Indians , a minor league professional football team .
He was the lawyer for Ted Collins' old Boston Yankees in the National Football League .
All was quiet in the office of the Yankees and the local National Leaguers yesterday .
On Friday , Roger Maris , the Yankee outfielder and winner of the American League's most-valuable-player award , will meet with Roy Hamey , the general manager .
Maris is in line for a big raise .
Arnold Palmer and Sam Snead will be among those honored at the national awards dinner of the Metropolitan Golf Writers Association tonight .
The dinner will be held at the Hotel Pierre .
Palmer , golf's leading money-winner in 1960 , and Snead will be saluted as the winning team in the Canada Cup matches last June in Dublin .
Deane Beman , the National Amateur champion , and all the metropolitan district champions , including Bob Gardner , the amateur title-holder , also will receive awards .
The writers' Gold Tee Award will go to John McAuliffe of Plainfield , N. J. , and Palm Beach , Fla. , for his sponsorship of charity tournaments .
Horton Smith of Detroit , a former president of the Professional Golfers Association , will receive the Ben Hogan Trophy for his comeback following a recent illness .
The principal speaker will be Senator Stuart Symington , Democrat of Missouri .
Golf's golden boy
Arnold Palmer has been a blazing figure in golf over the past twelve months .
He won the Masters , the United States Open and a record $80,738 in prize money .
He was heralded as `` Sportsman of the Year '' by Sports Illustrated , and last night was acclaimed in Rochester as the `` Professional Athlete of the Year '' , a distinction that earned for him the $10,000 diamond-studded Hickok Belt .
But he also achieved something that endeared him to every duffer who ever flubbed a shot .
A couple of weeks ago , he scored a monstrous 12 on a par-5 hole .
It made him human .
And it also stayed the hands of thousands of brooding incompetents who were meditating the abandonment of a sport whose frustrations were driving them to despair .
If such a paragon of perfection as Palmer could commit such a scoring sacrilege , there was hope left for all .
It was neither a spirit of self-sacrifice nor a yen to encourage the downtrodden that motivated Arnold .
He merely became victimized by a form of athletics that respects no one and aggravates all .
The world's best golfer , shooting below par , came to the last hole of the opening round of the Los Angeles open with every intention of delivering a final crusher .
He boomed a 280-yard drive .
Then the pixies and the zombies took over while the banshees wailed in the distance .
No margin for error
On the narrow fairway of a 508-yard hole , Arnold whipped into his second shot .
The ball went off in a majestic arc , an out-of-bounds slice .
He tried again and once more sliced out of bounds .
He hooked the next two out of bounds on the opposite side .
`` It is possible that I over-corrected '' , he said ruefully .
Each of the four wayward shots cost him two strokes .
So he wound up with a dozen .
`` It was a nice round figure , that 12 '' , he said as he headed for the clubhouse , not too much perturbed .
From the standpoint of the army of duffers , however , this was easily the most heartening exhibition they had had since Ben Hogan fell upon evil ways during his heyday and scored an 11 in the Texas open .
The idol of the hackers , of course , is Ray Ainsley , who achieved a 19 in the United States Open .
Their secondary hero is another pro , Willie Chisholm , who drank his lunch during another Open and tried to blast his way out of a rock-strewn gully .
Willie's partner was Long Jim Barnes , who tried to keep count .
Stickler for rules
`` How many is that , Jim '' ? ?
Asked Willie at one stage of his excavation project .
`` Thirteen '' , said Long Jim .
`` Nae , man '' , said Willie , `` ye must be countin' the echoes '' .
He had a 16 .
Palmer's dozen were honestly earned .
Nor were there any rules to save him .
If there had been , he would have found a loophole , because Arnold is one golfer who knows the code as thoroughly as the man who wrote the book .
This knowledge has come in handy , too .
His first shot in the Open last year landed in a brook that flowed along the right side of the fairway .
The ball floated downstream .
A spectator picked up the ball and handed it to a small boy , who dropped this suddenly hot potato in a very playable lie .
Arnold sent for Joe Dey , the executive secretary of the golf association .
Joe naturally ruled that a ball be dropped from alongside the spot where it had originally entered the stream .
`` I knew it all along '' , confessed Arnold with a grin , `` but I just happened to think how much nicer it would be to drop one way up there '' .
For a serious young man who plays golf with a serious intensity , Palmer has such an inherent sense of humor that it relieves the strain and keeps his nerves from jangling like banjo strings .
Yet he remains the fiercest of competitors .
He'll even bull head-on into the rules when he is sure he's right .
That's how he first won the Masters in 1958 .
It happened on the twelfth hole , a 155-yarder .
Arnold's iron shot from the tee burrowed into the bunker guarding the green , an embankment that had become soft and spongy from the rains , thereby bringing local rules into force .
Ruling from on high
`` I can remove the ball , can't I '' ? ?
Asked Palmer of an official .
`` No '' , said the official .
`` You must play it where it lies '' .
`` You're wrong '' , said Arnold , a man who knows the rules .
`` I'll do as you say , but I'll also play a provisional ball and get a ruling '' .
He scored a 4 for the embedded ball , a 3 with the provisional one .
The golfing fathers ruled in his favor .
So he picked up a stroke with the provisional ball and won the tournament by the margin of that stroke .
Until a few weeks ago , however , Arnold Palmer was some god-like creature who had nothing in common with the duffers .
But after that 12 at Los Angeles he became one of the boys , a bigger hero than he ever had been before .
A formula to supply players for the new Minneapolis Vikings and the problem of increasing the 1961 schedule to fourteen games will be discussed by National Football League owners at a meeting at the Hotel Warwick today .
Other items on the agenda during the meetings , which are expected to continue through Saturday , concern television , rules changes , professional football's hall of fame , players' benefits and constitutional amendments .
The owners would like each club in the fourteen-team league to play a home-and-home series with teams in its division , plus two games against teams in the other division .
However , this would require a lengthening of the season from thirteen to fourteen weeks .
Pete Rozelle , the league commissioner , pointed out :
`` We'll have the problem of baseball at one end and weather at the other '' .
Nine of the league's teams play in baseball parks and therefore face an early-season conflict in dates .
If the Cardinals heed Manager Gene Mauch of the Phillies , they won't be misled by the Pirates' slower start this season .
`` Pittsburgh definitely is the team to beat '' , Mauch said here the other day .
`` The Pirates showed they could outclass the field last year .
They have the same men , no age problem , no injuries and they also have Vinegar Bend Mizell for the full season , along with Bobby Shantz '' .
Tonight at 8 o'clock the Cardinals , who gave the Pirates as much trouble as anyone did in 1960 , breaking even with them , will get their first 1961 shot at baseball's world champions .
The Pirates have a 9-6 record this year and the Redbirds are 7-9 .
Change in pitchers .
Solly Hemus announced a switch in his starting pitcher , from Bob Gibson to Ernie Broglio , for several reasons : 1 Broglio's 4-0 won-lost record and 1.24 earned-run mark against Pittsburgh a year ago ; ;
2 The desire to give Broglio as many starts as possible ; ;
3 The Redbirds' disheartening 11-7 collapse against the Phillies Sunday .
Manager Hemus , eager to end a pitching slump that has brought four losses in the five games on the current home stand , moved Gibson to the Wednesday night starting assignment .
After Thursday's open date , Solly plans to open with Larry Jackson against the Cubs here Friday night .
Harvey Haddix , set back by the flu this season , will start against his former Cardinal mates , who might be playing without captain Kenny Boyer in tonight's game at Busch Stadium .
Boyer is suffering from a stiff neck .
Haddix has a 13-8 record against the Redbirds , despite only a 1-3 mark in 1960 .
Pirate Manager Danny Murtaugh said he hadn't decided between Mizell and Vern Law for Wednesday's game .
Mizell has won both of his starts .
Nieman kept in lineup .
After a lengthy workout yesterday , an open date , Hemus said that Bob Nieman definitely would stay in the lineup .
That means Stan Musial probably will ride the bench on the seventh anniversary of his record five-home run day against the Giants .
`` I have to stay with Nieman for a while '' , Hemus said .
`` Bill White ( sore ankles ) should be ready .
With a lefthander going for Pittsburgh , I may use Don Taussig in center '' .
`` Lindy McDaniel threw batting practice about 25 minutes , and he looked good '' , Hemus said .
`` He should be getting back in the groove before long .
Our pitching is much better than it has shown '' .
The statistics hardly indicated that the Pirates needed extra batting practice , but Murtaugh also turned his men loose at Busch Stadium yesterday .
Six Bucks over .
Until the Bucs' bats quieted down a bit in Cincinnati over the weekend , the champions had eight men hitting over .
Despite the recession , Pittsburgh came into town with this imposing list of averages : Smoky Burgess , Gino Cimoli , Bill Virdon , Bob Clemente and Dick Groat , each
, Dick Stuart , Don Hoak
and Bob Skinner
.
Bill Mazeroski with and Hal Smith with were the only Pirates dragging their feet .
Perhaps the Pirate who will be the unhappiest over the news that Musial probably will sit out most of the series is Bob Friend , who was beaten by The Man twice last season on dramatic home runs .
Friend is off to a great start with a 4-0 record but isn't likely to see action here this week .
