They shift the hypothalamic balance to the sympathetic side .
This explains the beneficial effect of electroshock therapy in certain depressions and a shift in the reaction from hypo- to normal reactivity of the sympathetic system as shown by the Mecholyl test .
Some investigators have found a parallelism between remissions and return of the sympathetic reactivity of the hypothalamus to the normal level as indicated by the Mecholyl test and , conversely , between clinical impairment and increasing deviation of this test from the norm .
Nevertheless , the theory that the determining influence of the hypothalamic balance has a profound influence on the clinical behavior of neuropsychiatric patients has not yet been tested on an adequate number of patients .
The Mecholyl and noradrenalin tests applied with certain precautions are reliable indicators of this central autonomic balance , but for the sake of correlating autonomic and clinical states , and of studying the effect of certain therapeutic procedures on central autonomic reactions , additional tests seem to be desirable .
It was assumed that the shift in autonomic hypothalamic balance occurring spontaneously in neuropsychiatric patients from the application of certain therapeutic procedures follows the pattern known from the sleep-wakefulness cycle .
A change in the balance to the parasympathetic side leads in the normal individual to sleep or , in special circumstances , to cardiovascular collapse or nausea and vomiting .
In both conditions the emotional and perceptual sensitivity is diminished , but no depression occurs such as is seen clinically or may be produced in normal persons by drugs .
The fundamental differences between physiological and pathological states of parasympathetic ( and also of sympathetic ) dominance remain to be elucidated .
Perhaps a clue to these and related problems lies in the fact that changes in the intensity of hypothalamic discharges which are associated with changes in its balance lead also to qualitative alterations in reactivity .
A state of parasympathetic `` tuning '' of the hypothalamus induced experimentally causes not only an increase in the parsympathetic reactivity of this structure to direct and reflexly induced stimuli , but leads also to an autonomic reversal : a stimulus acting sympathetically under control conditions elicits in this state of tuning a parasympathetic response ! !
Furthermore , conditioned reactions are fundamentally altered when the hypothalamic sympathetic reactivity is augmented beyond a critical level , and several types of behavioral changes probably related to the degree of central autonomic `` tuning '' are observed .
If , for instance , such a change is produced by one or a few insulin comas or electroshocks , previously inhibited conditioned reactions reappear .
However , if these procedures are applied more often , conditioned emotional responses are temporarily abolished .
In other studies , loss of differentiation in previously established conditioned reflexes resulted from repeated convulsive ( metrazol ) treatments , suggesting a fundamental disturbance in the balance between excitatory and inhibitory cerebral processes .
It has further been shown that : ( 1 ) an experimental neurosis in its initial stages is associated with a reversible shift in the central autonomic balance ; ;
( 2 ) drugs altering the hypothalamic balance alter conditioned reactions ; ;
( 3 ) in a state of depression , the positive conditioned stimulus may fail to elicit a conditioned reaction but cause an increased synchrony instead of the excitatory desynchronizing ( alerting ) effect on the Aj .
These are few and seemingly disjointed data , but they illustrate the important fact that fundamental alterations in conditioned reactions occur in a variety of states in which the hypothalamic balance has been altered by physiological experimentation , pharmacological action , or clinical processes .
14 .
On the physiological basis of some form of psychotherapy
The foregoing remarks imply that the hypothalamic balance plays a crucial role at the crossroads between physiological and pathological forms of emotion .
If this is the case , one would expect that not only the various procedures just mentioned which alter the hypothalamic balance would influence emotional state and behavior but that emotion itself would act likewise .
We pointed out that emotional excitement may lead to psychosomatic disorders and neurotic symptoms , particularly in certain types of personality , but it is also known that the reliving of a strong emotion ( `` abreaction '' ) may cure a battle neurosis .
This phenomenon raises the question whether the guidance of the emotions for therapeutic ends may not have an even wider application in the area of the neuroses .
Being a strictly physiological procedure , one may expect from such a study additional information on the nature of the emotional process itself .
Wolpe's experiments and therapeutic work lie in this area .
He showed convincingly that anxiety is a learned ( conditioned ) reaction and is the basis of experimental and clinical neuroses and assumed , therefore , that the neuronal changes which underlie the neuroses are functional and reversible .
An important observation of Pavlov served as a guide post to achieve such a reversibility by physiological means .
In a conditioning experiment , he demonstrated the antagonism between feeding and pain .
A mild electrical shock served as a conditioned stimulus and was followed by feeding .
The pain became thus the symbol for food and elicited salivary secretion ( conditioned reflex ) .
Even when the intensity of the shocks was increased gradually , it failed to evoke any signs of pain .
Since strong nociceptive stimuli produce an experimental neurosis during which the animals fail to eat in the experimental situation , Wolpe thought that he could utilize the feeding-pain antagonism to inhibit the neurotic symptoms through feeding .
Appropriate experiments showed that this is , indeed , possible .
He then applied this principle of reciprocal inhibition to human neuroses .
He took advantage of the antagonism between aggressive assertiveness and anxiety and found a relatively rapid disappearance of anxiety when the former attitude was established .
For the interpretation of these significant investigations , it should be remembered that reciprocal relations exist in the hypothalamus with respect to autonomic and somatic functions which are closely associated with the emotions .
The feeding-pain antagonism seems to be based on this reciprocal relation between the tropho- and ergotropic systems .
Furthermore , a functional antagonism exists between an aggressive attitude and a state of anxiety .
Although in both emotions sympathetic symptoms are present , different autonomic-somatic patterns underlie aggression and anxiety , respectively , as indicated by the rate of the excretion of the catecholamines , the state of the muscle tone , and the Mecholyl test .
The psychological incompatibility of these emotional states seems to be reflected in , or based on , this marked difference .
15 .
Concluding remarks
In our attempt to interpret the emotions in their physiological and pathological range , we emphasized the importance of the degree of activity of the parasympathetic and sympathetic divisions of the hypothalamic system and their influence on the inhibitory and excitatory systems , respectively .
We stressed the reciprocal relation of these systems with respect to the autonomic-somatic downward discharge as well as regarding the hypothalamic-cortical discharge .
Although we are still far from a complete understanding of these problems , as a first approximation , it is suggested that alterations in the hypothalamic balance with consequent changes in the hypothalamic-cortical discharges account for major changes in behavior seen in various moods and states of emotions in man and beast under physiological circumstances , in experimental and clinical neurosis , and as the result of psychopharmacological agents .
In view of the important role which emotional disturbances play in the genesis of neurotic and psychotic disorders and the parallelism observed between autonomic states and psychological behavior in several instances , it is further suggested that a hypothalamic imbalance may play an important role in initiating mental changes .
6.4 .
The primary decomposition theorem
We are trying to study a linear operator T on the finite-dimensional space V , by decomposing T into a direct sum of operators which are in some sense elementary .
We can do this through the characteristic values and vectors of T in certain special cases , i.e. , when the minimal polynomial for T factors over the scalar field F into a product of distinct monic polynomials of degree 1 .
What can we do with the general T ? ?
If we try to study T using characteristic values , we are confronted with two problems .
First , T may not have a single characteristic value ; ;
this is really a deficiency in the scalar field , namely , that it is not algebraically closed .
Second , even if the characteristic polynomial factors completely over F into a product of polynomials of degree 1 , there may not be enough characteristic vectors for T to span the space V .
This is clearly a deficiency in T .
The second situation is illustrated by the operator T on Af ( F any field ) represented in the standard basis by Af .
The characteristic polynomial for A is Af and this is plainly also the minimal polynomial for A ( or for T ) .
Thus T is not diagonalizable .
One sees that this happens because the null space of Af has dimension 1 only .
On the other hand , the null space of Af and the null space of Af together span V , the former being the subspace spanned by Af and the latter the subspace spanned by Af and Af .
This will be more or less our general method for the second problem .
If ( remember this is an assumption ) the minimal polynomial for T decomposes Af where Af are distinct elements of F , then we shall show that the space V is the direct sum of the null spaces of Af .
The diagonalizable operator is the special case of this in which Af for each i .
The theorem which we prove is more general than what we have described , since it works with the primary decomposition of the minimal polynomial , whether or not the primes which enter are all of first degree .
The reader will find it helpful to think of the special case when the primes are of degree 1 , and even more particularly , to think of the proof of Theorem 10 , a special case of this theorem .
Theorem 12 .
( primary decomposition theorem ) .
Let T be a linear operator on the finite-dimensional vector space V over the field F .
Let p be the minimal polynomial for T , Af , where the Af , are distinct irreducible monic polynomials over F and the Af are positive integers .
Let Af be the null space of Af .
Then ( A ) Af ; ;
( B ) each Af is invariant under T ; ;
( C ) if Af is the operator induced on Af by T , then the minimal polynomial for Af is Af .
Proof .
The idea of the proof is this .
If the direct-sum decomposition ( A ) is valid , how can we get hold of the projections Af associated with the decomposition ? ?
The projection Af will be the identity on Af and zero on the other Af .
We shall find a polynomial Af such that Af is the identity on Af and is zero on the other Af , and so that Af , etc. .
For each i , let Af .
Since Af are distinct prime polynomials , the polynomials Af are relatively prime ( Theorem 8 , Chapter 4 ) .
Thus there are polynomials Af such that Af .
Note also that if Af , then Af is divisible by the polynomial p , because Af contains each Af as a factor .
We shall show that the polynomials Af behave in the manner described in the first paragraph of the proof .
Let Af .
Since Af and P divides Af for Af , we have Af .
Thus the Af are projections which correspond to some direct-sum decomposition of the space V .
We wish to show that the range of Af is exactly the subspace Af .
It is clear that each vector in the range of Af is in Af for if **ya is in the range of Af , then Af and so Af because Af is divisible by the minimal polynomial P .
Conversely , suppose that **ya is in the null space of Af .
If Af , then Af is divisible by Af and so Af , i.e. , Af .
But then it is immediate that Af , i.e. , that **ya is in the range of Af .
This completes the proof of statement ( A ) .
It is certainly clear that the subspaces Af are invariant under T .
If Af is the operator induced on Af by T , then evidently Af , because by definition Af is 0 on the subspace Af .
This shows that the minimal polynomial for Af divides Af .
Conversely , let G be any polynomial such that Af .
Then Af .
Thus Af is divisible by the minimal polynomial P of T , i.e. , Af divides Af .
It is easily seen that Af divides G .
Hence the minimal polynomial for Af is Af .
Corollary .
If Af are the projections associated with the primary decomposition of T , then each Af is a polynomial in T , and accordingly if a linear operator U commutes with T then U commutes with each of the Af , i.e. , each subspace Af is invariant under U .
In the notation of the proof of Theorem 12 , let us take a look at the special case in which the minimal polynomial for T is a product of first-degree polynomials , i.e. , the case in which each Af is of the form Af .
Now the range of Af is the null space Af of Af .
Let us put Af .
By Theorem 10 , D is a diagonalizable operator which we shall call the diagonalizable part of T .
Let us look at the operator Af .
Now Af Af so Af .
The reader should be familiar enough with projections by now so that he sees that Af and in general that Af .
When Af for each i , we shall have Af , because the operator Af will then be 0 on the range of Af .
Definition .
Let N be a linear operator on the vector space V .
We say that N is nilpotent if there is some positive integer R such that Af .
Theorem 13 .
Let T be a linear operator on the finite-dimensional vector space V over the field F .
Suppose that the minimal polynomial for T decomposes over F into a product of linear polynomials .
Then there is a diagonalizable operator D on V and a nilpotent operator N in V such that ( A ) Af , ( b ) Af .
The diagonalizable operator D and the nilpotent operator N are uniquely determined by ( A ) and ( B ) and each of them is a polynomial in T .
Proof .
We have just observed that we can write Af where D is diagonalizable and N is nilpotent , and where D and N not only commute but are polynomials in T .
Now suppose that we also have Af where D' is diagonalizable , N' is nilpotent , and Af .
We shall prove that Af .
Since D' and N' commute with one another and Af , we see that D' and N' commute with T .
Thus D' and N' commute with any polynomial in T ; ;
hence they commute with D and with N .
Now we have Af or Af and all four of these operators commute with one another .
Since D and D' are both diagonalizable and they commute , they are simultaneously diagonalizable , and Af is diagonalizable .
Since N and N' are both nilpotent and they commute , the operator Af is nilpotent ; ;
for , using the fact that N and N' commute Af and so when R is sufficiently large every term in this expression for Af will be 0 .
( Actually , a nilpotent operator on an n-dimensional space must have its T power 0 ; ;
if we take Af above , that will be large enough .
It then follows that Af is large enough , but this is not obvious from the above expression .
) Now Af is a diagonalizable operator which is also nilpotent .
Such an operator is obviously the zero operator ; ;
for since it is nilpotent , the minimal polynomial for this operator is of the form Af for some Af ; ;
but then since the operator is diagonalizable , the minimal polynomial cannot have a repeated root ; ;
hence Af and the minimal polynomial is simply x , which says the operator is 0 .
Thus we see that Af and Af .
Corollary .
Let V be a finite-dimensional vector space over an algebraically closed field F , e.g. , the field of complex numbers .
Then every linear operator T in V can be written as the sum of a diagonalizable operator D and a nilpotent operator N which commute .
These operators D and N are unique and each is a polynomial in T .
From these results , one sees that the study of linear operators on vector spaces over an algebraically closed field is essentially reduced to the study of nilpotent operators .
For vector spaces over non-algebraically closed fields , we still need to find some substitute for characteristic values and vectors .
It is a very interesting fact that these two problems can be handled simultaneously and this is what we shall do in the next chapter .
In concluding this section , we should like to give an example which illustrates some of the ideas of the primary decomposition theorem .
We have chosen to give it at the end of the section since it deals with differential equations and thus is not purely linear algebra .
Example 11 .
In the primary decomposition theorem , it is not necessary that the vector space V be finite dimensional , nor is it necessary for parts ( A ) and ( B ) that P be the minimal polynomial for T .
If T is a linear operator on an arbitrary vector space and if there is a monic polynomial P such that Af , then parts ( A ) and ( B ) of Theorem 12 are valid for T with the proof which we gave .
Let N be a positive integer and let V be the space of all N times continuously differentiable functions F on the real line which satisfy the differential equation Af where Af are some fixed constants .
If Af denotes the space of N times continuously differentiable functions , then the space V of solutions of this differential equation is a subspace of Af .
If D denotes the differentiation operator and P is the polynomial Af then V is the null space of the operator p ( , ) , because Af simply says Af .
Let us now regard D as a linear operator on the subspace V .
Then Af .
If we are discussing differentiable complex-valued functions , then Af and V are complex vector spaces , and Af may be any complex numbers .
We now write Af where Af are distinct complex numbers .
If Af is the null space of Af , then Theorem 12 says that Af .
In other words , if F satisfies the differential equation Af , then F is uniquely expressible in the form Af where Af satisfies the differential equation Af .
Thus , the study of the solutions to the equation Af is reduced to the study of the space of solutions of a differential equation of the form Af .
This reduction has been accomplished by the general methods of linear algebra , i.e. , by the primary decomposition theorem .
To describe the space of solutions to Af , one must know something about differential equations ; ;
that is , one must know something about D other than the fact that it is a linear operator .
However , one does not need to know very much .
It is very easy to establish by induction on R that if F is in Af then Af ; ;
that is , Af , etc. .
Thus Af if and only if Af .
A function G such that Af , i.e. , Af , must be a polynomial function of degree Af or less : Af .
Thus F satisfies Af if and only if F has the form Af .
Accordingly , the ' functions ' Af span the space of solutions of Af .
Since Af are linearly independent functions and the exponential function has no zeros , these R functions Af , form a basis for the space of solutions .
7-1 .
Examples of binomial experiments
Some experiments are composed of repetitions of independent trials , each with two possible outcomes .
The binomial probability distribution may describe the variation that occurs from one set of trials of such a binomial experiment to another .
We devote a chapter to the binomial distribution not only because it is a mathematical model for an enormous variety of real life phenomena , but also because it has important properties that recur in many other probability models .
We begin with a few examples of binomial experiments .
Marksmanship example .
A trained marksman shooting five rounds at a target , all under practically the same conditions , may hit the bull's-eye from 0 to 5 times .
In repeated sets of five shots his numbers of bull's-eyes vary .
What can we say of the probabilities of the different possible numbers of bull's-eyes ? ?
Inheritance in mice .
In litters of eight mice from similar parents , the number of mice with straight instead of wavy hair is an integer from 0 to 8 .
What probabilities should be attached to these possible outcomes ? ?
Aces ( ones ) with three dice .
When three dice are tossed repeatedly , what is the probability that the number of aces is 0 ( or 1 , or 2 , or 3 ) ? ?
General binomial problem .
More generally , suppose that an experiment consists of a number of independent trials , that each trial results in either a `` success '' or a `` non-success '' ( `` failure '' ) , and that the probability of success remains constant from trial to trial .
In the examples above , the occurrence of a bull's-eye , a straight-haired mouse , or an ace could be called a `` success '' .
In general , any outcome we choose may be labeled `` success '' .
The major question in this chapter is : What is the probability of exactly X successes in N trials ? ?
In Chapters 3 and 4 we answered questions like those in the examples , usually by counting points in a sample space .
Fortunately , a general formula of wide applicability solves all problems of this kind .
Before deriving this formula , we explain what we mean by `` problems of this kind '' .
Experiments are often composed of several identical trials , and sometimes experiments themselves are repeated .
In the marksmanship example , a trial consists of `` one round shot at a target '' with outcome either one bull's-eye ( success ) or none ( failure ) .
Further , an experiment might consist of five rounds , and several sets of five rounds might be regarded as a super-experiment composed of several repetitions of the five-round experiment .
If three dice are tossed , a trial is one toss of one die and the experiment is composed of three trials .
Or , what amounts to the same thing , if one die is tossed three times , each toss is a trial , and the three tosses form the experiment .
Mathematically , we shall not distinguish the experiment of three dice tossed once from that of one die tossed three times .
These examples are illustrative of the use of the words `` trial '' and `` experiment '' as they are used in this chapter , but they are quite flexible words and it is well not to restrict them too narrowly .
Example 1 .
Student football managers .
Ten students act as managers for a high-school football team , and of these managers a proportion P are licensed drivers .
Each Friday one manager is chosen by lot to stay late and load the equipment on a truck .
On three Fridays the coach has needed a driver .
Considering only these Fridays , what is the probability that the coach had drivers all 3 times ? ?
Exactly 2 times ? ?
1 time ? ?
0 times ? ?
Discussion .
Note that there are 3 trials of interest .
Each trial consists of choosing a student manager at random .
The 2 possible outcomes on each trial are `` driver '' or `` nondriver '' .
Since the choice is by lot each week , the outcomes of different trials are independent .
The managers stay the same , so that Af is the same for all weeks .
We now generalize these ideas for general binomial experiments .
For an experiment to qualify as a binomial experiment , it must have four properties : ( 1 ) there must be a fixed number of trials , ( 2 ) each trial must result in a `` success '' or a `` failure '' ( a binomial trial ) , ( 3 ) all trials must have identical probabilities of success , ( 4 ) the trials must be independent of each other .
Below we use our earlier examples to describe and illustrate these four properties .
We also give , for each property , an example where the property is absent .
The language and notation introduced are standard throughout the chapter .
1 .
There must be a fixed number n of repeated trials .
For the marksman , we study sets of five shots ( Af ) ; ;
for the mice , we restrict attention to litters of eight ( Af ) ; ;
and for the aces , we toss three dice ( Af ) .
Experiment without a fixed number of trials .
Toss a die until an ace appears .
Here the number of trials is a random variable , not a fixed number .
2 .
Binomial trials .
Each of the N trials is either a success or a failure .
`` Success '' and `` failure '' are just convenient labels for the two categories of outcomes when we talk about binomial trials in general .
These words are more expressive than labels like `` A '' and `` not-A '' .
It is natural from the marksman's viewpoint to call a bull's-eye a success , but in the mice example it is arbitrary which category corresponds to straight hair in a mouse .
The word `` binomial '' means `` of two names '' or `` of two terms '' , and both usages apply in our work : the first to the names of the two outcomes of a binomial trial , and the second to the terms P and Af that represent the probabilities of `` success '' and `` failure '' .
Sometimes when there are many outcomes for a single trial , we group these outcomes into two classes , as in the example of the die , where we have arbitrarily constructed the classes `` ace '' and `` not-ace '' .
Experiment without the two-class property .
We classify mice as `` straight-haired '' or `` wavy-haired '' , but a hairless mouse appears .
We can escape from such a difficulty by ruling out the animal as not constituting a trial , but such a solution is not always satisfactory .
3 .
All trials have identical probabilities of success .
Each die has probability Af of producing an ace ; ;
the marksman has some probability p , perhaps 0.1 , of making a bull's-eye .
Note that we need not know the value of p , for the experiment to be binomial .
Experiment where p is not constant .
During a round of target practice the sun comes from behind a cloud and dazzles the marksman , lowering his chance of a bull's-eye .
4 .
The trials are independent .
Strictly speaking , this means that the probability for each possible outcome of the experiment can be computed by multiplying together the probabilities of the possible outcomes of the single binomial trials .
Thus in the three-dice example Af , Af , and the independence assumption imply that the probability that the three dice fall ace , not-ace , ace in that order is Af .
Experimentally , we expect independence when the trials have nothing to do with one another .
Examples where independence fails .
A family of five plans to go together either to the beach or to the mountains , and a coin is tossed to decide .
We want to know the number of people going to the mountains .
When this experiment is viewed as composed of five binomial trials , one for each member of the family , the outcomes of the trials are obviously not independent .
Indeed , the experiment is better viewed as consisting of one binomial trial for the entire family .
The following is a less extreme example of dependence .
Consider couples visiting an art museum .
Each person votes for one of a pair of pictures to receive a popular prize .
Voting for one picture may be called `` success '' , for the other `` failure '' .
An experiment consists of the voting of one couple , or two trials .
In repetitions of the experiment from couple to couple , the votes of the two persons in a couple probably agree more often than independence would imply , because couples who visit the museum together are more likely to have similar tastes than are a random pair of people drawn from the entire population of visitors .
Table 7-1 illustrates the point .
The table shows that 0.6 of the boys and 0.6 of the girls vote for picture A .
Therefore , under independent voting , Af or 0.36 of the couples would cast two votes for picture A , and Af or 0.16 would cast two votes for picture B .
Thus in independent voting , Af or 0.52 of the couples would agree .
But Table 7-1 shows that Af or 0.70 agree , too many for independent voting .
Each performance of an n-trial binomial experiment results in some whole number from 0 through N as the value of the random variable X , where Af .
We want to study the probability function of this random variable .
For example , we are interested in the number of bull's-eyes , not which shots were bull's-eyes .
A binomial experiment can produce random variables other than the number of successes .
For example , the marksman gets 5 shots , but we take his score to be the number of shots before his first bull's-eye , that is , 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 ( or 5 , if he gets no bull's-eye ) .
Thus we do not score the number of bull's-eyes , and the random variable is not the number of successes .
The constancy of P and the independence are the conditions most likely to give trouble in practice .
Obviously , very slight changes in P do not change the probabilities much , and a slight lack of independence may not make an appreciable difference .
( For instance , see Example 2 of Section 5-5 , on red cards in hands of 5 .
) On the other hand , even when the binomial model does not describe well the physical phenomenon being studied , the binomial model may still be used as a baseline for comparative purposes ; ;
that is , we may discuss the phenomenon in terms of its departures from the binomial model .
To summarize :
A binomial experiment consists of Af independent binomial trials , all with the same probability Af of yielding a success .
The outcome of the experiment is X successes .
The random variable X takes the values Af with probabilities Af or , more briefly Af .
We shall find a formula for the probability of exactly X successes for given values of P and N .
When each number of successes X is paired with its probability of occurrence Af , the set of pairs Af , is a probability function called a binomial distribution .
The choice of P and N determines the binomial distribution uniquely , and different choices always produce different distributions ( except when Af ; ;
then the number of successes is always 0 ) .
The set of all binomial distributions is called the family of binomial distributions , but in general discussions this expression is often shortened to `` the binomial distribution '' , or even `` the binomial '' when the context is clear .
Binomial distributions were treated by James Bernoulli about 1700 , and for this reason binomial trials are sometimes called Bernoulli trials .
Random variables .
Each binomial trial of a binomial experiment produces either 0 or 1 success .
Therefore each binomial trial can be thought of as producing a value of a random variable associated with that trial and taking the values 0 and 1 , with probabilities Q and P respectively .
The several trials of a binomial experiment produce a new random variable X , the total number of successes , which is just the sum of the random variables associated with the single trials .
Example 2 .
The marksman gets two bull's-eyes , one on his third shot and one on his fifth .
The numbers of successes on the five individual shots are , then , 0 , 0 , 1 , 0 , 1 .
The number of successes on each shot is a value of a random variable that has values 0 or 1 , and there are 5 such random variables here .
Their sum is X , the total number of successes , which in this experiment has the value Af .
Consider a simple , closed , plane curve C which is a real-analytic image of the unit circle , and which is given by Af .
These are real analytic periodic functions with period T .
In the following paper it is shown that in a certain definite sense , exactly an odd number of squares can be inscribed in every such curve which does not contain an infinite number of inscribed squares .
This theorem is similar to the theorem of Kakutani that there exists a circumscribing cube around any closed , bounded convex set in Af .
The latter theorem has been generalized by Yamabe and Yujobo , and Cairns to show that in Af there are families of such cubes .
Here , for the case of squares inscribed in plane curves , we remove the restriction to convexity and give certain other results .
A square inscribed in a curve C means a square with its four corner points on the curve , though it may not lie entirely in the interior of C .
Indeed , the spiral Af , with the two endpoints connected by a straight line possesses only one inscribed square .
The square has one corner point on the straight line segment , and does not lie entirely in the interior .
On C , from the point P at Af to the point Q at Af , we construct the chord , and upon the chord as a side erect a square in such a way that as S approaches zero the square is inside C .
As S increases we consider the two free corner points of the square , Af and Af , adjacent to P and Q respectively .
As S approaches T the square will be outside C and therefore both Af and Af must cross C an odd number of times as S varies from zero to T .
The points may also touch C without crossing .
Suppose Af crosses C when Af .
We now have certain squares with three corners on C .
For any such square the middle corner of these will be called the vertex of the square and the corner not on the curve will be called the diagonal point of the square .
Each point on C , as a vertex , may possess a finite number of corresponding diagonal points by the above construction .
To each paired vertex and diagonal point there corresponds a unique forward corner point , i.e. , the corner on C reached first by proceeding along C from the vertex in the direction of increasing T .
If the vertex is at Af , and if the interior of C is on the left as one moves in the direction of increasing t , then every such corner can be found from the curve obtained by rotating C clockwise through 90-degrees about the vertex .
The set of intersections of Af , the rotated curve , with the original curve C consists of just the set of forward corner points on C corresponding to the vertex at Af , plus the vertex itself .
We note that two such curves C and Af , cannot coincide at more than a finite number of points ; ;
otherwise , being analytic , they would coincide at all points , which is impossible since they do not coincide near Af .
With each vertex we associate certain numerical values , namely the set of positive differences in the parameter T between the vertex and its corresponding forward corner points .
For the vertex at Af , these values will be denoted by Af .
The function f{t} defined in this way is multi-valued .
We consider now the graph of the function f{t} on Af .
We will refer to the plane of C and Af as the C-plane and to the plane of the graph as the Aj .
The graph , as a set , may have a finite number of components .
We will denote the values of f{t} on different components by Af .
Each point with abscissa T on the graph represents an intersection between C and Af .
There are two types of such intersections , depending essentially on whether the curves cross at the point of intersection .
An ordinary point will be any point of intersection A such that in every neighborhood of A in the C-plane , Af meets both the interior and the exterior of C .
Any other point of intersection between C and Af will be called a tangent point .
This terminology will also be applied to the corresponding points in the Aj .
We can now prove several lemmas .
Lemma 1 .
In some neighborhood in the f-plane of any ordinary point of the graph , the function f is a single-valued , continuous function .
Proof .
We first show that the function is single-valued in some neighborhood .
With the vertex at Af in the C-plane we assume that Af is the parametric location on C of an ordinary intersection Q between C and Af .
In the f-plane the coordinates of the corresponding point are Af .
We know that in the C-plane both C and Af are analytic .
In the C-plane we construct a set of rectangular Cartesian coordinates u , V with the origin at Q and such that both C and Af have finite slope at Q .
Near Q , both curves can be represented by analytic functions of U .
In a neighborhood of Q the difference between these functions is also a single-valued , analytic function of U .
Furthermore , one can find a neighborhood of Q in which the difference function is monotone , for since it is analytic it can have only a finite number of extrema in any interval .
Now , to find Af , one needs the intersection of C and Af near Q .
But Af is just the curve Af translated without rotation through a small arc , for Af is always obtained by rotating C through exactly 90-degrees .
The arc is itself a segment of an analytic curve .
Thus if E is sufficiently small , there can be only one intersection of C and Af near Q , for if there were more than one intersection for every E then the difference between C and Af near Q would not be a monotone function .
Therefore , Af is single-valued near Q .
It is also seen that Af , since the change from Af to Af is accomplished by a continuous translation .
Thus Af is also continuous at Af , and in a neighborhood of Af which does not contain a tangent point .
We turn now to the set of tangent points on the graph .
This set must consist of isolated points and closed intervals .
The fact that there can not be any limit points of the set except in closed intervals follows from the argument used in Lemma 1 , namely , that near any tangent point in the C-plane the curves C and Af are analytic , and therefore the difference between them must be a monotone function in some neighborhood on either side of the tangent point .
This prevents the occurrence of an infinite sequence of isolated tangent points .
Lemma 2 .
In some neighborhood of an isolated tangent point in the f-plane , say Af , the function Af is either double-valued or has no values defined , except at the tangent point itself , where it is single-valued .
Proof .
A tangent point Q in the C-plane occurs when C and Af are tangent to one another .
A continuous change in T through an amount E results in a translation along an analytic arc of the curve Af .
There are three possibilities : ( A ) Af remains tangent to C as it is translated ; ;
( B ) Af moves away from C and does not intersect it at all for Af ; ;
( C ) Af cuts across C and there are two ordinary intersections for every T in Af .
The first possibility results in a closed interval of tangent points in the f-plane , the end points of which fall into category ( B ) or ( C ) .
In the second category the function Af has no values defined in a neighborhood Af .
In the third category the function is double-valued in this interval .
The same remarks apply to an interval on the other side of Af .
Again , the analyticity of the two curves guarantees that such intervals exist .
In the neighborhood of an end point of an interval of tangent points in the f-plane the function is two-valued or no-valued on one side , and is a single-valued function consisting entirely of tangent points on the other side .
With the above results we can make the following remarks about the graph of F .
First , for any value of T for which all values of f{t} are ordinary points the number of values of f{t} must be odd .
For it is clear that the total number of ordinary intersections of C and Af must be even ( otherwise , starting in the interior of C , Af could not finally return to the interior ) , and the center of rotation at T is the argument of the function , not a value .
Therefore , for any value of T the number of values of f{t} is equal to the ( finite ) number of tangent points corresponding to the argument T plus an odd number .
Definition .
The number of ordinary values of the function f{t} at T will be called its multiplicity at T .
Lemma 3 .
The graph of f has at least one component whose support is the entire interval Aj .
Proof
.
We suppose not .
Then every component of the graph of F must be defined over a bounded sub-interval .
Suppose Af is defined in the sub-interval Af .
Now Af and Af must both be tangent points on the T component in the f-plane ; ;
otherwise by Lemma 1 the component would extend beyond these points .
Further , we see by Lemma 2 that the multiplicity of F can only change at a tangent point , and at such a point can only change by an even integer .
Thus the multiplicity of Af for a given T must be an even number .
This is true of all components which have such a bounded support .
But this is a contradiction , for we know that the multiplicity of f{t} is odd for every T .
We have shown that the graph of F contains at least one component whose inverse is the entire interval {0,T} , and whose multiplicity is odd .
There must be an odd number of such components , which will be called complete components .
The remaining ( incomplete ) components all have an even number of ordinary points at any argument , and are defined only on a proper sub-interval of Aj .
We must now show that on some component of the graph there exist two points for which the corresponding diagonal points in the C-plane are on opposite sides of C .
We again consider a fixed point P at Af and a variable point Q at Af on C .
We erect a square with PQ as a side and with free corners Af and Af adjacent to P and Q respectively .
As S varies from zero to T , the values of S for which Af and Af cross C will be denoted by Af and Af respectively .
We have Af , plus tangent points .
These s-values are just the ordinary values of Af .
Lemma 4 .
The values Af are the ordinary values at Af of a multi-valued function g{t} which has components corresponding to those of f{t} .
Proof .
We first define a function b{t} as follows : given the set of squares such that each has three corners on C and vertex at t , b{t} is the corresponding set of positive parametric differences between T and the backward corner points .
The functions F and B have exactly the same multiplicity at every argument T .
Now with P fixed at Af , Af-values occur when the corner Af crosses C , and are among the values of S such that Af .
The roots of this equation are just the ordinates of the intersections of the graph of B with a straight line of unit slope through Af in the b-plane ( the plane of the graph of b ) .
We define these values as Af , and define g{t} in the same way for each T .
Thus we obtain g{t} by introducing an oblique g{t}-axis in the Aj .
Introduction .
In 1 we investigate a new series of line involutions in a projective space of three dimensions over the field of complex numbers .
These are defined by a simple involutorial transformation of the points in which a general line meets a nonsingular quadric surface bearing a curve of symbol Af .
Then in 2 we show that any line involution with the properties that ( A ) It has no complex of invariant lines , and ( B ) Its singular lines form a complex consisting exclusively of the lines which meet a twisted curve , is necessarily of the type discussed in 1 .
No generalization of these results to spaces of more than three dimensions has so far been found possible .
1 .
Let Q be a nonsingular quadric surface bearing reguli Af and Af , and let **zg be a Af curve of order K on Q .
A general line L meets Q in two points , Af and Af , through each of which passes a unique generator of the regulus , Af , whose lines are simple secants of Aj .
On these generators let Af and Af be , respectively , the harmonic conjugates of Af and Af with respect to the two points in which the corresponding generator meets Aj .
The line Af is the image of L .
Clearly , the transformation is involutorial .
We observe first that no line , l , can meet its image except at one of its intersections with Q .
For if it did , the plane of L and l' would contain two generators of Af , which is impossible .
Moreover , from the definitive transformation of intercepts on the generators of Af , it is clear that the only points of Q at which a line can meet its image are the points of Aj .
Hence the totality of singular lines is the T order complex of lines which meet Aj .
The invariant lines are the lines of the congruence of secants of **zg , since each of these meets Q in two points which are invariant .
The order of this congruence is Af , since Af secants of a curve of symbol ( B ) on a quadric surface pass through an arbitrary point .
The class of the congruence is Af , since an arbitrary plane meets **zg in K points .
Since the complex of singular lines is of order K and since there is no complex of invariant lines , it follows from the formula Af that the order of the involution is Af .
There are various sets of exceptional lines , or lines whose images are not unique .
The most obvious of these is the quadratic complex of tangents to Q , each line of which is transformed into the entire pencil of lines tangent to Q at the image of the point of tangency of the given line .
Thus pencils of tangents to Q are transformed into pencils of tangents .
It is interesting that a 1 : 1 correspondence can be established between the lines of two such pencils , so that in a sense a unique image can actually be assigned to each tangent .
For the lines of any plane , **yp , meeting Q in a conic C , are transformed into the congruence of secants of the curve C' into which C is transformed in the point involution on Q .
In particular , tangents to C are transformed into tangents to C' .
Moreover , if Af and Af are two planes intersecting in a line l , tangent to Q at a point P , the two free intersections of the image curves Af and Af must coincide at P' , the image of P , and at this point Af and Af must have a common tangent l' .
Hence , thought of as a line in a particular plane **yp , any tangent to Q has a unique image and moreover this image is the same for all planes through L .
Each generator , **yl , of Af is also exceptional , for each is transformed into the entire congruence of secants of the curve into which that generator is transformed by the point involution on Q .
This curve is of symbol Af since it meets **yl , and hence every line of Af in the Af invariant points on **yl and since it obviously meets every line of Af in a single point .
The congruence of its secants is therefore of order Af and class Af .
A final class of exceptional lines is identifiable from the following considerations : Since no two generators of Af can intersect , it follows that their image curves can have no free intersections .
In other words , these curves have only fixed intersections common to them all .
Now the only way in which all curves of the image family of Af can pass through a fixed point is to have a generator of Af which is not a secant but a tangent of **zg , for then any point on such a generator will be transformed into the point of tangency .
Since two curves of symbol Af on Q intersect in Af points , it follows that there are Af lines of Af which are tangent to Aj .
Clearly , any line , l , of any bundle having one of these points of tangency , T , as vertex will be transformed into the entire pencil having the image of the second intersection of L and Q as vertex and lying in the plane determined by the image point and the generator of Af which is tangent to **zg at T .
A line through two of these points , Af and Af , will be transformed into the entire bilinear congruence having the tangents to **zg at Af and Af as directrices .
A conic , C , being a ( 1 , 1 ) curve on Q , meets the image of any line of Af , which we have already found to be a Af curve on Q , in Af points .
Hence its image , C' , meets any line of Af in Af points .
Moreover , C' obviously meets any line Af in a single point .
Hence C' is a Af curve on Q .
Therefore , the congruence of its secants , that is the image of a general plane field of lines , is of order Af and class Af .
Finally , the image of a general bundle of lines is a congruence whose order is the order of the congruence of invariant lines , namely Af and whose class is the order of the image congruence of a general plane field of lines , namely Af .
2 .
The preceding observations make it clear that there exist line involutions of all orders greater than 1 with no complex of invariant lines and with a complex of singular lines consisting exclusively of the lines which meet a twisted curve Aj .
We now shall show that any involution with these characteristics is necessarily of the type we have just described .
To do this we must first show that every line which meets **zg in a point P meets its image at P .
To see this , consider a general pencil of lines containing a general secant of Aj .
By ( 1 ) , the image of this pencil is a ruled surface of order Af which is met by the plane of the pencil in a curve , C , of order Af .
On C there is a Af correspondence in which the Af points cut from C by a general line , l , of the pencil correspond to the point of intersection of the image of L and the plane of the pencil .
Since C is rational , this correspondence has K coincidences , each of which implies a line of the pencil which meets its image .
However , since the pencil contains a secant of **zg it actually contains only Af singular lines .
To avoid this contradiction it is necessary that C be composite , with the secant of **zg and a curve of order Af as components .
Thus it follows that the secants of **zg are all invariant .
But if this is the case , then an arbitrary pencil of lines having a point , P , of **zg as vertex is transformed into a ruled surface of order Af having Af generators concurrent at P .
Since a ruled surface of order N with N concurrent generators is necessarily a cone , it follows finally that every line through a point , P , of **zg meets its image at P , as asserted .
Now consider the transformation of the lines of a bundle with vertex , P , on **zg which is effected by the involution as a whole .
From the preceding remarks , it is clear that such a bundle is transformed into itself in an involutorial fashion .
Moreover , in this involution there is a cone of invariant lines of order Af , namely the cone of secants of **zg which pass through P .
Hence it follows that the involution within the bundle must be a perspective De Jonquieres involution of order Af and the invariant locus must have a multiple line of multiplicity either Af or Af .
The first possibility requires that there be a line through P which meets **zg in Af points ; ;
the second requires that there be a line through P which meets **zg in Af points .
In each case , lines of the bundles are transformed by involutions within the pencils they determine with the multiple secant .
In the first case the fixed elements within each pencil are the multiple secant and the line joining the vertex , P , to the intersection of **zg and the plane of the pencil which does not lie on the multiple secant .
In the second , the fixed elements are the lines which join the vertex , P , to the two intersections of **zg and the plane of the pencil which do not lie on the multiple secant .
The multiple secants , of course , are exceptional and in each case are transformed into cones of order Af .
Observations similar to these can be made at each point of Aj .
Hence **zg must have either a regulus of Af-fold secants or a regulus of Af-fold secants .
Moreover , if Af , no two of the multiple secants can intersect .
For if such were the case , either the plane of the two lines would meet **zg in more than K points or , alternatively , the order of the image regulus of the pencil determined by the two lines would be too high .
But if no two lines of the regulus of multiple secants of **zg can intersect , then the regulus must be quadratic , or in other words , **zg must be either a Af or a Af curve on a nonsingular quadric surface .
We now observe that the case in which **zg is a Af curve on a quadric is impossible if the complex of singular lines consists exclusively of the lines which meet Aj .
For any pencil in a plane containing a Af-fold secant of **zg has an image regulus which meets the plane of the pencil in Af lines , namely the images of the lines of the pencil which pass through the intersection of **zg and the multiple secant , plus an additional component to account for the intersections of the images of the general lines of the pencil .
However , if there is no additional complex of singular lines , the order of the image regulus of a pencil is precisely Af .
This contradicts the preceding observations , and so , under the assumption of this paper , we must reject the possibility that **zg is a Af curve on a quadric surface .
Continuing with the case in which **zg is a Af curve on a quadric Q , we first observe that the second regulus of Q consists precisely of the lines which join the two free intersections of **zg and the planes through any one of the multiple secants .
For each of these lines meets Q in three points , namely two points on **zg and one point on one of the multiple secants .
Now consider an arbitrary line , l , meeting Q in two points , Af and Af .
If **ya is the multiple secant of **zg which passes through Af and **yb is the simple secant of **zg which passes through Af , and if Af are the points in which **ya meets **zg , and if Af is the image of Af on the generator **yb , it follows that the image of the line Af is Af .
These societies can expect to face difficult times .
As the historic processes of modernization gradually gain momentum , their cohesion will be threatened by divisive forces , the gaps between rulers and subjects , town and country , will widen ; ;
new aspirants for power will emerge whose ambitions far exceed their competence ; ;
old rulers may lose their nerve and their sense of direction .
National leaders will have to display the highest skills of statesmanship to guide their people through times of uncertainty and confusion which destroy men's sense of identity .
Feelings of a community of interest will have to be recreated -- in some of the new nations , indeed , they must be built for the first time -- on a new basis which looks toward the future and does not rely only on shared memories of the past .
Nevertheless , with foresight and careful planning , some of the more disruptive and dangerous consequences of social change which have troubled other countries passing through this stage can be escaped .
The United States can help by communicating a genuine concern with the problems these countries face and a readiness to provide technical and other appropriate forms of assistance where possible .
Our central goal should be to provide the greatest positive incentive for these societies to tackle boldly the tasks which they face .
At the same time , we should recognize that the obstacles to change and the lack of cohesion and stability which characterize these countries may make them particularly prone to diversions and external adventures of all sorts .
It may seem to some of them that success can be purchased much less dearly by fishing in the murky waters of international politics than by facing up to the intractable tasks at home .
We should do what we can to discourage this conclusion , both by offering assistance for their domestic needs and by reacting firmly to irresponsible actions on the world scene .
When necessary , we should make it clear that countries which choose to derive marginal advantages from the cold war or to exploit their potential for disrupting the security of the world will not only lose our sympathy but also risk their own prospects for orderly development .
As a nation , we feel an obligation to assist other countries in their development ; ;
but this obligation pertains only to countries which are honestly seeking to become responsible members of a stable and forward-moving world community .
Transitional societies
When we look at countries like Iran , Iraq , Pakistan , and Burma , where substantial progress has been made in creating a minimum supply of modern men and of social overhead capital , and where institutions of centralized government exist , we find a second category of countries with a different set of problems and hence different priorities for policy .
The men in power are committed in principle to modernization , but economic and social changes are proceeding only erratically .
Isolated enterprises have been launched , but they are not yet related to each other in a meaningful pattern .
The society is likely to be characterized by having a fairly modernized urban sector and a relatively untouched rural sector , with very poor communications between the two .
Progress is impeded by psychological inhibitions to effective action among those in power and by a failure on their part to understand how local resources , human and material , can be mobilized to achieve the national goals of modernization already symbolically accepted .
Most countries in this second category share the difficulty of having many of the structures of a modern political and social system without the modern standards of performance required to make them effective .
In these rapidly changing societies there is also too little appreciation of the need for effort to achieve goals .
The colonial period has generally left people believing that government can , if it wishes , provide all manner of services for them -- and that with independence free men do not have to work to realize the benefits of modern life .
For example , in accordance with the fashion of the times , most transitional societies have announced economic development plans of varying numbers of years ; ;
such is the mystique of planning that people expect that fulfillment of the plan will follow automatically upon its announcement .
The civil services in such societies are generally inadequate to deal competently with the problems facing them ; ;
and their members often equate a government career with security and status rather than with sacrifice , self-discipline , and competence .
American policy should press constantly the view that until these governments demand efficiency and effectiveness of their bureaucracies there is not the slightest hope that they will either modernize of democratize their societies .
We should spread the view that planning and national development are serious matters which call for effort as well as enthusiasm .
Above all , we should seek to encourage the leaders of these societies to accept the unpleasant fact that they are responsible for their fates .
Only within the framework of a mature relationship characterized by honest appraisals of performance can we provide telling assistance .
With respect to those countries whose leaders prefer to live with their illusions , we can afford to wait , for in time their comparative lack of progress will become clear for all to see .
Our technical assistance to these countries should place special emphasis on inducing the central governments to assume the role of advisor and guide which at an earlier stage foreign experts assumed in dealing with the central governments .
We should encourage the governments to develop their own technical assistance to communities , state and provincial governments , rural communities , and other smaller groups , making certain that no important segment of the economy is neglected .
Simultaneously we should be underlining the interrelationships of technical progress in various fields , showing how agricultural training can be introduced into education , how health affects labor productivity , how small business can benefit the rural farm community , and , above all , how progress in each field relates to national progress .
Efforts such as the Community Development Program in the Philippines have demonstrated that transitional societies can work toward balanced national development .
To achieve this goal of balanced development , communications between the central government and the local communities must be such that the needs and aspirations of the people themselves are effectively taken into account .
If modernization programs are imposed from above , without the understanding and cooperation of the people , they will encounter grave difficulties .
Land reform is likely to be a pressing issue in many of these countries .
It should be American policy not only to encourage effective land reform programs but also to underline the relation of such reforms to the economic growth and modernization of the society .
As an isolated policy , land reform is likely to be politically disruptive ; ;
as part of a larger development effort , however , it may gain wide acceptance .
It should also be recognized that the problem of rural tenancy cannot be solved by administrative decrees alone .
Land reform programs need to be supplemented with programs for promoting rural credits and technical assistance in agriculture .
Lastly , governmental and private planners will at this stage begin to see large capital requirements looming ahead .
By holding out prospects for external capital assistance , the United States can provide strong incentives to prepare for the concerted economic drive necessary to achieve self-sustaining growth .
Actively modernizing societies
At a third stage in the modernization process are such countries as India , Brazil , the Philippines , and Taiwan , which are ready and committed to move into the stage of self-sustaining growth .
They must continue to satisfy basic capital needs ; ;
and there persists the dual problem of maintaining operational unity around a national program of modernization while simultaneously decentralizing participation in the program to wider and wider groups .
But these countries have made big strides toward developing the necessary human and social overhead capital ; ;
they have established reasonably stable and effective governmental institutions at national and local levels ; ;
and they have begun to develop a capacity to deal realistically and simultaneously with all the major sectors of their economies .
On the economic front , the first priority of these countries is to mobilize a vastly increased volume of resources .
Several related tasks must be carried out if self-sustaining growth is to be achieved .
These countries must formulate a comprehensive , long-term program covering the objectives of both the private and the public sectors of the economy .
They must in their planning be able to count on at least tentative commitments of foreign capital assistance over periods of several years .
Capital imports drawn from a number of sources must be employed and combined skillfully enough to permit domestic investment programming to go forward .
Capital flows must be coordinated with national needs and planning .
Finally , a balance must be effected among project finance , utilization of agricultural surpluses , and general balance of payments support .
Thus , although the agenda of external assistance in the economic sphere are cumulative , and many of the policies suggested for nations in the earlier stages remain relevant , the basic purpose of American economic policy during the later stages of development should be to assure that movement into a stage of self-sustaining growth is not prevented by lack of foreign exchange .
There remain many political and administrative problems to be solved .
For one thing , although considerable numbers of men have been trained , bureaucracies are still deficient in many respects ; ;
even the famed Indian Civil Service is not fully adequate to the tremendous range of tasks it has undertaken .
Technical assistance in training middle- and upper-level management personnel is still needed in many cases .
There are also more basic problems .
This is the stage at which democratic developments must take place if the society is to become an open community of creative people .
Nevertheless , impulses still exist among the ruling elite to rationalize and thus to perpetuate the need for centralized and authoritarian practices .
Another great danger is that the emerging middle class will feel itself increasingly alienated from the political leaders who still justify their dominance by reference to the struggle for independence or the early phase of nationalism .
The capacity of intellectuals and members of the new professional classes to contribute creatively to national development is likely to be destroyed by a constraining sense of inferiority toward both their own political class and their colleagues and professional counterparts in the West .
Particularly when based upon a single dominant party , governments may respond to such a situation by claiming a monopoly of understanding about the national interest .
Convinced of the wisdom of their own actions , and reassured by the promises of their economic development programs , governments may fail to push outward to win more and more people to the national effort , becoming instead more rigid and inflexible in their policies .
American policy toward such societies should stress our sympathy for the emerging social and professional classes .
It should attempt to communicate both an appreciation of professional standards and an understanding of the tremendous powers and potentialities of genuinely open and pluralistic societies .
We have every obligation to take seriously their claims to being democratic and free countries ; ;
we also have , in consequence , the duty to appraise realistically and honestly their performance and to communicate our judgments to their leaders in frank but friendly ways .
The time factor
We have emphasized that the modernizing process in each society will take a considerable period of time .
With the exception of treaty-making , foreign relations were historically concerned for the most part with conditions of short or at least measurable duration .
Foreign policy now takes on a different perspective and must become skilled not merely at response but also at projection .
American and free-world policies can marginally affect the pace of transition ; ;
but basically that pace depends on changes in the supply of resources and in the human attitudes , political institutions , and social structure which each society must generate .
It follows that any effective policy toward the underdeveloped countries must have a realistically long working horizon .
It must be marked by a patience and persistence which have not always been its trademark .
This condition affects not only the conception but also the legislative and financial support of foreign policy , especially in the context of economic aid .
2 : :
Some of the major functions of religion
The place of religion in the simple , preliterate societies is quite definite ; ;
as a complex it fits into the whole social organization and functions dominantly in every part of it .
In societies like ours , however , its place is less clear and more complex .
With the diversity of religious viewpoints , there are differences of opinion as to the essential features of religion ; ;
and there are different opinions as to the essential functions of religion .
Nevertheless , for most of the population of heterogeneous advanced societies , though less for the less religious portion , religion does perform certain modal individual and social functions .
Although the inner functions of religion are not of direct significance in social organization , they have important indirect consequences .
If the inner functions of religion are performed , the individual is a composed , ordered , motivated , and emotionally secure associate ; ;
he is not greatly frustrated , and he is not anomic ; ;
he is better fitted to perform his social life among his fellows .
There are several closely related inner functions .
In the last analysis , religion is the means of inducing , formulating , expressing , enhancing , implementing , and perpetuating man's deepest experience -- the religious .
Man is first religious ; ;
the instrumentalities follow .
Religion seeks to satisfy human needs of great pertinence .
The significant things in it , at the higher religious levels , are the inner emotional , mental , and spiritual occurrences that fill the pressing human needs of self-preservation , self-pacification , and self-completion .
The chief experience is the sensing of communion , and in the higher religions , of a harmonious relationship with the supernatural power .
Related to this is the fact that most of the higher religions define for the individual his place in the universe and give him a feeling that he is relatively secure in an ordered , dependable universe .
Man has the experience of being helpfully allied with what he cannot fully understand ; ;
he is a coordinate part of all of the mysterious energy and being and movement .
The universe is a safe and permanent home .
A number of religions also satisfy for many the need of being linked with the ultimate and eternal .
Death is not permanent defeat and disappearance ; ;
man has a second chance .
He is not lost in the abyss of endless time ; ;
he has endless being .
Religion at its best also offers the experience of spiritual fulfillment by inviting man into the highest realm of the spirit .
Religion can summate , epitomize , relate , and conserve all the highest ideals and values -- ethical , aesthetic , and religious -- of man formed in his culture .
There is also the possibility , among higher religions , of experiencing consistent meaning in life and enjoying guidance and expansiveness .
The kind of religious experience that most moderns seek not only provides , clarifies , and relates human yearnings , values , ideals , and purposes ; ;
it also provides facilities and incitements for the development of personality , sociality , and creativeness .
Under the religious impulse , whether theistic or humanistic , men have joy in living ; ;
life leads somewhere .
Religion at its best is out in front , ever beckoning and leading on , and , as Lippman put it , `` mobilizing all man's scattered energies in one triumphant sense of his own infinite importance '' .
At the same time that religion binds the individual helpfully to the supernatural and gives him cosmic peace and a sense of supreme fulfillment , it also has great therapeutic value for him .
It gives him aid , comfort , even solace , in meeting mundane life situations where his own unassisted practical knowledge and skill are felt by him to be inadequate .
He is confronted with the recurrent crises , such as great natural catastrophes and the great transitions of life -- marriage , incurable disease , widowhood , old age , the certainty of death .
He has to cope with frustration and other emotional disturbance and anomie .
His religious beliefs provide him with plausible explanations for many conditions which cause him great concern , and his religious faith makes possible fortitude , equanimity , and consolation , enabling him to endure colossal misfortune , fear , frustration , uncertainty , suffering , evil , and danger .
Religion usually also includes a principle of compensation , mainly in a promised perfect future state .
The belief in immortality , where held , functions as a redress for the ills and disappointments of the here and now .
The tensions accompanying a repressive consciousness of wrongdoing or sinning or some tormenting secret are relieved for the less self-contained or self-sufficient by confession , repentance , and penance .
The feeling of individual inferiority , defeat , or humilation growing out of various social situations or individual deficiencies or failures is compensated for by communion in worship or prayer with a friendly , but all-victorious Father-God , as well as by sympathetic fellowship with others who share this faith , and by opportunities in religious acts for giving vent to emotions and energies .
In providing for these inner individual functions , religion undertakes in behalf of individual peace of mind and well-being services for which there is no other institution .
In addition to the functions of religion within man , there have always been the outer social functions for the community and society .
The two have never been separable .
Religion is vitally necessary in both societal maintenance and regulation .
The value-system of a community or society is always correlated with , and to a degree dependent upon , a more or less shared system of religious beliefs and convictions .
The religion supports , re-enforces , reaffirms , and maintains the fundamental values .
Even in the United States , with its freedom of religious belief and worship and its vast denominational differentiation , there is a general consensus regarding the basic Christian values .
This is demonstrated especially when there is awareness of radically different value orientation elsewhere ; ;
for example Americans rally to Christian values vis-a-vis those of atheistic communism .
In America also all of our major religious bodies officially sanction a universalistic ethic which is reflective of our common religion .
Even the non-church members -- the freewheelers , marginal religionists and so on -- have the values of Christian civilization internalized in them .
Furthermore , religion tends to integrate the whole range of values from the highest or ultimate values of God to the intermediary and subordinate values ; ;
for example , those regarding material objects and pragmatic ends .
Finally , it gives sanctity , more than human legitimacy , and even , through super-empirical reference , transcendent and supernatural importance to some values ; ;
for example , marriage as a sacrament , much law-breaking as sinful , occasionally the state as a divine instrument .
It places certain values at least beyond questioning and tampering .
Closely related to this function is the fact that the religious system provides a body of ultimate ends for the society , which are compatible with the supreme eternal ends .
This something leads to a conception of an over-all Social Plan with a meaning interpretable in terms of ultimate ends ; ;
for example , a plan that fulfills the will of God , which advances the Kingdom of God , which involves social life as part of the Grand Design .
This explains some group ends and provides a justification of their primacy .
It gives social guidance and direction and makes for programs of social action .
Finally , it gives meaning to much social endeavor , and logic , consistency , and meaning to life .
In general , there is no society so secularized as to be completely without religiously inspired transcendental ends .
Religion integrates and unifies .
Some of the oldest , most persistent , and most cohesive forms of social groupings have grown out of religion .
These groups have varied widely from mere families , primitive , totemic groups , and small modern cults and sects , to the memberships of great denominations , and great , widely dispersed world religions .
Religion fosters group life in various ways .
The common ultimate values , ends and goals fostered by religion are a most important factor .
Without a system of values there can be no society .
Where such a value system prevails , it always unifies all who possess it ; ;
it enables members of the society to operate as a system .
The beliefs of a religion also reflecting the values are expressed in creeds , dogmas , and doctrines , and form what Durkheim calls a credo .
As he points out , a religious group cannot exist without a collective credo , and the more extensive the credo , the more unified and strong is the group .
The credo unifies and socializes men by attaching them completely to an identical body of doctrine ; ;
the more extensive and firm the body of doctrine , the firmer the group .
The religious symbolism , and especially the closely related rites and worship forms , constitute a powerful bond for the members of the particular faith .
The religion , in fact , is an expression of the unity of the group , small or large .
The common codes , for religious action as such and in their ethical aspects for everyday moral behavior , bind the devotees together .
These are ways of jointly participating in significantly symbolized , standardized , and ordered religiously sanctified behavior .
The codes are mechanism for training in , and directing and enforcing , uniform social interaction , and for continually and publicly reasserting the solidarity of the group .
Durkheim noted long ago that religion as `` a unified system of beliefs and practices relative to sacred things unites into one single moral community all those who adhere to them '' .
His view is that every religion pertains to a community , and , conversely , every community is in one aspect a religious unit .
This is brought out in the common religious ethos that prevails even in the denominationally diverse audiences at many secular semi-public and public occasions in the United States ; ;
and it is evidenced in the prayers offered , in the frequent religious allusions , and in the confirmation of points on religious grounds .
The unifying effect of religion is also brought out in the fact that historically peoples have clung together as more or less cohesive cultural units , with religion as the dominant bond , even though spatially dispersed and not politically organized .
The Jews for 2500 years have been a prime example , though the adherents of any world or interpeople religion are cases in point .
It might be pointed out that the integrating function of religion , for good or ill , has often supported or been identified with other groupings -- political , nationality , language , class , racial , sociability , even economic .
Religion usually exercises a stabilizing-conserving function .
As such it acts as an anchor for the people .
There is a marked tendency for religions , once firmly established , to resist change , not only in their own doctrines and policies and practices , but also in secular affairs having religious relevance .
It has thus been a significant factor in the conservation of social values , though also in some measure , an obstacle to the creation or diffusion of new ones .
It tends to support the longstanding precious sentiments , the traditional ways of thinking , and the customary ways of living .
As Yinger has pointed out , the `` reliance on symbols , on tradition , on sacred writings , on the cultivation of emotional feelings of identity and harmony with sacred values , turns one to the past far more than to the future '' .
Historically , religion has also functioned as a tremendous engine of vindication , enforcement , sanction , and perpetuation of various other institutions .
At the same time that religion exercises a conserving influence , it also energizes and motivates both individuals and groups .
Much of the important individual and social action has been owing to religious incentives .
The great ultimate ends of religion have served as magnificent beacon lights that lured people toward them with an almost irresistible force , mobilizing energies and inducing sacrifices ; ;
for example , the Crusades , mission efforts , just wars .
Much effort has been expended in the sincere effort to apply the teaching and admonitions of religion .
The insuperable reward systems that most religions embody have great motivating effects .
Religion provides the most attractive rewards , either in this world or the next , for those who not merely abide by its norms , but who engage in good works .
Religion usually acts as a powerful aid in social control , enforcing what men should or should not do .
Among primitive peoples the sanctions and dictates of religion were more binding than any of the other controls exercised by the group ; ;
and in modern societies such influence is still great .
Religion has its own supernatural prescriptions that are at the same time codes of behavior for the here and now .
Overwhelmed with the care of five young children and concerned about persistent economic difficulties due to her husband's marginal income , her defense of denial was excessively strong .
Thus the lack of effective recognition of the responsibilities involved in caring for two babies showed signs of becoming a disabling problem .
The result , dramatically visible in a matter of days in the family's disrupted daily functioning , was a phobic-like fear that some terrible harm would befall the second twin , whose birth had not been anticipated .
Soon Mrs. B.'s fears threatened to burst into a full-blown panic concerning the welfare of the entire family .
Inability to care for the other children , difficulty in feeding the babies , who seemed colicky , bone-weary fatigue , repeated crying episodes , and short tempers reflected the family's helplessness in coping with the stressful situation .
Clearly , this was a family in crisis .
Mrs. B. compared her feelings of weakness to her feelings of weakness and helplessness at the time of her mother's death when she was eight , as well as her subsequent anger at her father for remarrying .
Her previous traumatic experiences flashed through her mind as if they had happened yesterday .
On the anniversary of her father's death she poured out with agonized tears her feelings of guilt about not having attended his funeral .
In the family's own words ( during the third of twelve visits ) , they had `` reached the crisis peak -- either the situation will give or we will break '' ! !
Direct confrontation and acceptance of Mrs. B.'s anger against the second baby soon dissipated her fears of annihilation .
Abreaction of her anxiety and guilt concerning the death of her parents , when linked up with her current feelings of anger and her fears of loss , abandonment , and annihilation , produced further relief of tension .
In a joint interview Mr. and Mrs. B. were helped to understand the meaning of a younger son's wandering away from home in terms of his feelings of displacement in reaction to the arrival of the twins .
The father , accurately perceiving the child's needs , not only respected them as worthy of his attention , but immediately satisfied them by taking him on his lap along with the twins , saying , `` I have a big lap ; ;
there is room for you , too , Johnnie '' .
Simultaneously , a variety of environmental supports -- a calm but not too motherly homemaker , referral for temporary economic aid , intelligent use of nursing care , accompaniment to the well-baby clinic for medical advice on the twins' feeding problem -- combined to prevent further development of predictable pathological mechanisms .
Follow-up visits of the nurse and social worker indicated continued success in the care of the new babies as well as a marked improvement in the family's day-to-day mental health and social functioning .
As seen in the B. family , there must be an attempt to help the client develop conscious awareness of the problem , especially in the absence of a formal request for assistance .
The lack of awareness usually springs from deep but disguised anxiety , often assuming the superficial guise of `` not knowing '' or `` not caring '' .
The unhealthy use of denial in the initial reaction to a stress must be handled through the medium of a positive controlled transference .
In general , the approach is more active than passive , more out-reaching than reflective .
While some regression is inevitable , it is discouraged rather than encouraged so that the transference does not follow the stages of planned regression associated with certain casework adaptations of the psychoanalytic model for insight therapy .
To establish an emotionally meaningful relationship the worker must demonstrate actual or potential helpfulness immediately , preferably within the first interview , by meeting the client's specific needs .
These needs usually concern the reduction of guilt and some relief of tension .
The initial interview must be therapeutic rather than purely exploratory in an information-seeking sense .
In this relationship-building stage the worker must communicate confidence in the client's ability to deal with the problem .
In so doing he implicitly offers the positive contagion of hope as a kind of maturational dynamic to counteract feelings of helplessness and hopelessness generally associated with the first stages of stress impact .
Thus , the client receives enough ego support to engage in constructive efforts on his own behalf .
Here there is a specific preventive component which applies in a more generalized sense to any casework situation .
We are preventing or averting pathogenic phenomena such as undue regression , unhealthy suppression and repression , excessive use of denial , and crippling guilt turned against the self .
While some suppression and some denial are not only necessary but healthy , the worker's clinical knowledge must determine how these defenses are being used , what healthy shifts in defensive adaptation are indicated , and when efforts at bringing about change can be most effectively timed .
In steering the family toward ego-adaptive and away from maladaptive responses , the worker uses time-honored focused casework techniques of specific emotional support , clarification , and anticipatory guidance .
Over a relatively short period of time , usually about four to twelve weeks , the worker must be able to shift the focus , back and forth , between immediate external stressful exigencies ( `` precipitating stress '' ) and the key , emotionally relevant issues ( `` underlying problem '' ) which are , often in a dramatic preconscious breakthrough , reactivated by the crisis situation , and hence once again amenable to resolution .
Though there is obviously nothing new about these techniques , they do challenge the worker's skill to articulate them precisely on the spot and on the basis of quick and accurate diagnostic assessments .
Then , too , the utmost clinical flexibility is necessary in judiciously combining carefully timed family-oriented home visits , single and group office interviews , and appropriate telephone follow-up calls , if the worker is to be genuinely accessible and if the predicted unhealthy outcome is to be actually averted in accordance with the principles of preventive intervention .
In addition , in many cases , a variety of concrete social resources -- homemaker , day care , medical and financial aid -- must be reasonably available for the reality support needed to bolster the family in its individual and collective coping and integrative efforts .
At certain critical stages , and only for sound diagnostic reasons , it may be important to accompany family members in their use of these resources if their problem-solving behavior is to be constructive rather than defeating .
While expensive in time and involving a great deal of adaptation on the part of the worker ( in terms of his willingness to leave the sanctity of his office and enter actively into the client's life ) , techniques of accompaniment were found to be of tremendous value when in the service of specific preventive objectives .
Finally , whatever the techniques used , a twin goal is common to all preventive casework service : to cushion or reduce the force of the stress impact while at the same time to encourage and support family members to mobilize and use their ego capacities .
Having outlined an approach to the theory and practice of preventive casework , we now address ourselves to our final question : What place should brief , crisis-oriented preventive casework occupy in our total spectrum of services ? ?
We should first recognize our tendency to develop a hierarchy of values , locating brief treatment at the bottom and long-term intensive service at the top , instead of seeing the services as part of a continuum , each important in its own right .
This problem is perhaps as old as social casework itself .
Almost three decades ago Bertha Reynolds undertook a study of short-contact interviewing because of her conviction that short-term casework had an important but neglected place in our network of social services .
Her conclusion has been borne out in the experience of many practitioners : `` short-contact interviewing is neither a truncated nor a telescoped experience but is of the same essential quality as the so-called intensive case work '' .
Thus , casework involving a limited number of interviews is still to be regarded in terms of the quality of service rendered rather than of the quantity of time expended .
That we are experiencing an upsurge of interest in the many formulations and preventive adaptations of brief treatment in social casework is evident from even a small sampling of current literature .
Especially noteworthy is Levinger's finding that the length of treatment per se is not a reliable indicator of successful outcome .
According to a number of studies , the important predictors are the nature and management of the client's anxiety as well as the accessibility of the helping person .
For example , the level of improvement noted in a recent experiment with a short course of immediate treatment for parent-child relationship problems compared favorably with the results reported by typical child guidance clinics where the hours spent in purely diagnostic study may equal or exceed the number of hours devoted to actual treatment interviews in the experimental project .
Of startling significance , too , is the assertion that it was possible to carry out this program with only a 6 percent attrition rate as compared with a rate of 59 percent reported for a comparable group of families who were receiving help in traditionally operated child guidance services .
These reports refer to a level of secondary prevention in a child guidance clinic approached by the customary route of voluntary referral by the family or by other professional people .
Similarities to the approach which I have described are evident in the prompt establishment of a helping relationship , quick appraisal of key issues , and the immediate mobilization of treatment plans as the essential dynamics in helping to further the ego's coping efforts in dealing with the interplay of inner and outer stresses .
While there are many different possibilities for the timing of casework intervention , the experiments recently reported from a variety of traditional settings all point up the importance of an immediate response to the client's initial need for help .
In some programs , treatment is concentrated over a short period of time , while in others , after the initial contact is established , flexible spacing of interviews has been experimentally used with apparent success .
Willingness to take the risk of early and direct interpretation ( with the proviso that if the interpretation is too threatening , the worker can withdraw ) is another prominent feature in these efforts .
My aim in mentioning this factor obviously is not to give license to `` wild therapy '' but rather to encourage us to use the time-honored clinical casework skills we already possess , and to use them with greater confidence , precision , and professional pride .
Though there is obviously great need for continued experimentation with various types of short-term intervention to further efforts in developing an operational definition of prevention at the secondary -- or perhaps , in some instances , primary -- level , the place of short-term intervention has already been documented by a number of investigators in a wide variety of settings .
Woodward , for example , has emphasized the `` need for a broad spectrum of services , including very brief services in connection with critical situations '' .
Ideally , brief treatment should be arrived at as a treatment of choice rather than as a treatment of chance .
Moreover , the shortage of treatment resources and the chronically persistent shortage of mental health manpower force us to innovate additional refinements of preventive intervention techniques to make services more widely available -- and on a more effective basis to more people .
Further research in the meaning of crises as experienced by the consumers of traditional social casework services -- including attempts to develop a typology of family structures , crisis problems , reaction mechanisms , and differential treatment approaches -- and the establishment of new experimental programs are imperative social needs which should command the best efforts of caseworkers in collaboration with community planners .
Our literature is already replete with a fantastic number of suggestions for preventive agency programming ranging from the immediately practical to the globally utopian .
Probably , in the immediate future , we will have to settle for middle-range efforts that fall short of utopian models .
Increased experimentation with multipurpose agencies , especially those that combine afresh the traditional functions of family and child welfare services , holds rich promise for the future .
For example , child welfare experience abounds with cases in which the parental request for substitute care is precipitated by a crisis event which is meaningfully linked with a fundamental unresolved problem of family relationships .
Sentiment .
Tension management and communication of sentiment are the processes involved in the functioning of the element of sentiment or feeling .
One of the devices for tension management is preferential mating .
The preferential mating of this particular population has been analyzed in a separate study .
The relative geographical isolation of the Brandywine population makes for a limited choice in mating .
It would seem necessary that members of this population provide support for one another since it is not provided by the larger society .
The supportive relations can apparently be achieved in geographical and social isolation .
The newlyweds building homes on the same land with either set of parents , and the almost exclusive use of members of the population as sponsors for baptisms and weddings illustrate this supportive relationship .
As Loomis remarks , `` In the internal pattern the chief reason for interacting is to communicate liking , friendship , and love among those who stand in supporting relations to one another and corresponding negative sentiments to those who stand in antagonistic relations '' .
Achieving .
Maintenance of the status quo might seem to be the appropriate goal or objective of this population today .
Yet , the object of the element of achieving through the process of goal attaining for this population appears to have been changed by circumstances brought about by the war .
Prior to World War 2 , there was a higher percentage of endogamous marriages than after World War 2 .
Norms .
The norms , as elements , refer to `` all criteria for judging the character or conduct of both individual and group actions in any social system '' .
The process of evaluation assigns varying positive and negative priorities or values to elements .
The elements and processes become evident in a study of mate selection in this population .
From the evidence `` it may be conjectured that core - core marriages are the preferred unions for core males and females ; ;
core - marginal marriages still belong in the category of permissive unions ; ;
and core - Negro marriages are proscribed for core members '' .
Status-roles .
The element of status-roles and associated processes have not been sufficiently investigated for this population to permit any type of conjectures about them .
Power .
There is some indication from a limited number of interviews with members of the population that the element of power , primarily the voluntary influence of non-authoritative power , has been exerted on actors in the system , particularly in regard to mate selection .
This would seem to vary from family to family , depending somewhat on the core or marginal `` status '' of that family .
Again , size of the group may have some influence on the strength of group controls .
Ranking .
Interviews with members of the Brandywine population were attempted in order to discover the ranking of the various families in the population .
The large majority of the interviewees placed core families in the upper positions .
Loomis considers ranking a product of the evaluation process .
`` The standing or rank of an actor in a given social system is determined by the evaluation placed upon the actor and his acts in accordance with the norms and standards of the system '' .
Despite the increasing rate of exogamous marriages , the population has been able to sustain , at least to some degree , the consciousness of its intermediate status in society .
To some extent the system can be considered a Gemeinschaft in which `` social-role occupancies are determined by birth , by attributes such as sex or caste , which are biologically or socially immutable '' .
The adherence of many in the population to the Indian background in their pedigree , and emphasis upon the fact that their ancestors had never been slaves , becomes of prime interest in determining how far these elements promote the self-image of the intermediate status of the group in society .
Sanctions .
The negative sanctions applied to core - Negro marriages for core members act as indicators of expected adherence to group norms .
However , because of Church laws , lately more stringently enforced , which forbid the marriage of cousins closely related consanguineously , a means of facilitating the goal of in-group relations may be that of recourse to illegitimate unions .
A cursory survey of available material indicates a high rate of illegitimate births occurring to parents who have a close consanguineous relationship .
Subsystems
The comprehensive or master processes activate all or some of the elements within the social system and subsystems .
Within the larger social system are the structural and functional subsystems .
The structural subsystem , consisting of relatively stable inter-relationships among its parts , includes : 1 .
Subgroups of various types , interconnected by relational norms .
2 .
Roles of various types , within the larger system and within the subgroups 3 .
Regulative norms governing subgroups and roles .
4 .
Cultural values .
In the study of marriage patterns for this group , consanguinity produces the structural system -- a system of affinities -- which , in turn , maintains the system of consanguinity .
Subgroups of various types have been found within this system .
Each family line can be considered a substructure .
There seems to be an implied cultural value attached to the fact of core status within the group .
Additionally , the proscription of core - Negro marriages for core families , discussed above , would seem to act as a regulative norm governing subgroups and roles .
The scope of this study does not provide for the study of roles of various types within the larger system or within the subgroups .
However , it cannot be presumed , informal though the structure of the population seems , that there are not well-defined roles within the system .
The present study relates to the theory of functional systems .
It is hypothesized that fertility is a function of the social system when the population as a whole is considered and a function of the subsystems when the two-fold division of core families and marginal families is considered .
The four functional problems of a social system are , to some extent , solved by the subsystems within this population .
By means of geographical isolation and high fertility rates , inbreeding can be fostered and the pattern of isolation from the greater society maintained .
In order to attain the goal of group solidarity and to relieve tension , the high fertility rate provides more group members for mate selection , and the clustering of members in groups fosters acceptance of group controls .
To maintain their intermediate position in the larger society , it is not only necessary that members of this population be `` visible '' , but that their numbers be great enough to be recognized as a separate , distinct grouping or system in society .
As mentioned above , where families are concentrated in larger numbers , group controls seem strongest and most effective .
Adaptation to the social and non-social environment through the economy has been met to a degree through a type of occupational segregation .
This provides the necessary contact with the larger society , while supporting a type of control over members in terms of social contacts .
Integration `` has to do with the inter-relation of parts '' .
The problem of solidarity and morale again involves the concept of values .
The values placed by the Brandywine population , upon maintaining a certain homogeneity , a certain separate racial identity , and therefore a certain separate social status , are important for the morale of the system .
Since morale is closely related to pattern maintenance and integration , the higher the morale and solidarity , the better the system can solve the problems of the system .
In this respect it would seem that the greater the social distance between the Brandywine population and the white and Negro populations within the same general locality , the greater the possibility for higher morale and solidarity within the Brandywine population .
It is conceived that one of the means to attain this social distance is that of physical and social isolation .
In turn , higher fertility rates for this population provide a means of increasing the numerical quantity of the population , allowing for the possibility of greater stability and unity .
The population can thereby replenish itself and actually grow larger .
Master processes
Of particular utility in the analysis of the development , persistence , and change of social systems has been the use of the master or comprehensive processes .
Loomis considers six such processes in his paradigm .
1 .
Communication
2 .
Boundary maintenance
3 .
Systemic linkage
4 .
Socialization
5 .
Social control
6 .
Institutionalization Though undoubtedly all six processes are operative within the whole social system and its subsystems , two processes that are of crucial importance to this study will be singled out for particular emphasis .
Communication .
In discussing the process of communication , Loomis defines it as `` the process by which information , decisions , and directives are transmitted among actors and the ways in which knowledge , opinions , and attitudes are formed , or modified by interaction '' .
Communication may be facilitated by means of the high visibility within the larger community .
Intense interaction is easier where segregated living and occupational segregation mark off a group from the rest of the community , as in the case of this population .
However , the factor of physical isolation is not a static situation .
Although the Brandywine population is still predominantly rural , `` there are indications of a consistent and a statistically significant trend away from the older and relatively isolated rural communities .
Urbanization appears to be an important factor in the disintegration of this group .
This conclusion is , however , an over-simplification .
A more realistic analysis must take into account the fact that Brandywine people in the urban-fringe area are , in general , less segregated locally than group members in rural areas .
In the urban area , in other words , they , unlike some urban ethnic groups , do not concentrate in ghetto colonies .
Group pressures toward conformity are slight or non-existent , and deviant behavior in mate selection incurs few if any social sanctions .
In such a setting social contacts and associations are likely to be heterogamous , resulting in a change of values and , almost necessarily , in mate selection behavior .
To the extent that urban life contributes to the breakdown of the group patterns of residential isolation , to that extent it contributes directly to increased exogamy '' .
Social control .
The process of social control is operative insofar as sanctions play a part in the individual's behavior , as well as the group's behavior .
By means of this social control , deviance is either eliminated or somehow made compatible with the function of the social group .
Examples from this population indicate that deviance seems to be sanctioned by ostracism from the group .
Socialization .
There is an oral tradition among the members of the population in regard to the origin and subsequent separate status of the group in the larger society .
Confused and divided though this tradition may be , it is an important part of the social and cultural heritage of the group , and acts as a means of socialization , particularly for members of the rural community .
The fact of Indian ancestry and `` free '' status during the days of slavery , are important distinctions made by members of the group .
Boundary maintenance .
`` Culturally induced social cohesion resulting from common norms and values internalized by members of the group '' is operative in the boundary maintenance of the group as well as in the process of socialization .
The process of boundary maintenance identifies and preserves the social system or subsystems , and the characteristic interaction is maintained .
As the threat of encroachment on the system increases , the `` probability of applied boundary maintenance mechanisms increases '' .
The fertility rate pattern would seem to be a function , though a latent one , of the process of maintaining the boundary .
`` Increased boundary maintenance may be achieved , for example , by assigning a higher primacy or evaluation to activities characteristic of the external pattern .
'' The external pattern or external system can be considered as `` group behavior that enables the group to survive in its environment .
'' Boundary maintenance for this group would seem to be primarily social , as is the preference for endogamy .
It is also expressed in the proscription against deviants in the matter of endogamy , particularly in rural areas .
By their pattern of endogamy and exogamy , the core families and the marginal families show distinct limits to the intergroup contact they maintain .
Systemic linkage .
Where boundary maintenance describes the boundaries or limits of the group , systemic linkage is defined `` as the process whereby one or more of the elements of at least two social systems is articulated in such a manner that the two systems in some ways and on some occasions may be viewed as a single unit .
A royal decree issued in 1910 , two years after the Belgian government assumed authority for the administration of the Congo , prescribed the registration of all adult males by chiefdoms .
Further decrees along this line were issued in 1916 and 1919 .
In 1922 a continuous registration of the whole indigenous population was instituted by ordinance of the Governor-General , and the periodic compilation of these records was ordered .
But specific procedures for carrying out this plan were left to the discretion of the provincial governors .
A unified set of regulations , applicable to all areas , was issued in 1929 , and a complementary series of demographic inquiries in selected areas was instituted at the same time .
The whole system was again reviewed and reorganized in 1933 .
General responsibility for its administration rested with a division of the colonial government concerned with labor supply and native affairs , Service des Affaires Indigenes et de la Main-d'Oeuvre ( AIMO , Af Direction , Af Direction Generale , Gouvernement Generale ) .
Tribal authorities , the chiefs and their secretaries , were held responsible for maintaining the registers of indigenous persons within their territories , under the general supervision of district officials .
The district officials , along with their other duties , were obliged to organize special demographic inquiries in selected areas and to supervise the annual tabulations of demographic statistics .
The regulations require the inscription of each individual ( male or female , adult or child ) on a separate card ( fiche ) .
The cards , filed by circonscription ( sub-chiefdom , or village ) , are kept in the headquarters of each territoire ( chiefdom ) .
Each card is expected to show certain information about the individual concerned , including his or her date of birth ( or age at a specified time ) , spouses , and children .
Additional entries must be made from time to time .
Different cards are used for males and females , and a corner is clipped from the cards of adults , and of children when they reach puberty .
So a quick count could be made at any time , even by an illiterate clerk , of the number of registered persons in four age-and-sex classes .
Personal identification cards are issued to all adult males on which tax payments , inoculations , periods of employment , and changes of residence are recorded .
Similar identification cards were issued in 1959 to all adult females .
Each adult is held personally responsible for assuring his inscription and obtaining an identification card which must be shown on demand .
The registration card of a person leaving his home territory for a short period is put into a special file for absent persons .
The cards of permanent out-migrants are , in theory , sent to an office in the place of new residence .
Finally , the registration of births and deaths by nearest relatives was made compulsory in most regions .
Numbers of registered persons in four age-and-sex classes were counted each year .
In addition , demographic inquiries , supposedly involving field investigations , were conducted in selected minor divisions ( circonscriptions ) containing about 3 percent of the total population .
The results of these inquiries were used to adjust compilations of data from the registers and to provide various ratios and rates by districts , including birth and death rates , general fertility rates , distributions by marital status , fertility of wives separately in polygynous and non-polygynous households , infant mortality , and migration .
The areas to be examined in these inquiries were selected by local officials , supposedly as representative of a larger population .
Averages of the ratios obtained in a few selected areas were applied to the larger population .
The scheme , in theory , is an ingenious adaptation of European registration systems to the conditions of African life .
But it places a severe strain on the administrative resources ( already burdened in other ways ) of a widely dispersed , poor and largely illiterate population .
The sampling program was instituted before the principles of probability sampling were widely recognized in population studies .
The system was not well adapted to conditions of life in urban centers .
The distinction between domiciled ( de jure ) and present ( de facto ) population was not clearly defined .
So the results are subject to considerable confusion .
The system tended to break down during the war , but was reactivated ; ;
it had reached the pre-war level of efficiency by 1951 .
In spite of the defects in this system , the figures on total population during the late 1930's and again in the early 1950's seem to have represented actual conditions in most districts with approximate fidelity .
But the information on the dynamics of population was often quite misleading .
The same system , with minor modifications , was developed in Ruanda-Urundi under Belgian administration .
Here again it seems that useful approximations of the size and geographical distribution of the population were obtained in this way in the late pre-war and early post-war periods .
Before considering more recent activities , we should note another important aspect of demography in Belgian Africa .
A number of strong independent agencies , established in some cases with governmental or royal support , have conducted large medical , social , educational and research operations in particular parts of the Congo and Ruanda-Urundi .
The work of Fonds Reine Elisabeth pour l'Assistance Medicale aux Indigenes Du Congo Belge ( FOREAMI ) has special interest with respect to demography .
This agency accepted responsibility for medical services to a population ranging from 638,560 persons in 1941 to 840,503 in 1956 in the Kwango District and adjacent areas east of Leopoldville .
Each year from 1941 on , its medical staff had conducted intensive field investigations to determine changes in population structure and vital rates and , as its primary objective , the incidence of major diseases .
Its findings are reported each year in its Rapport Sur l'activite Pendant annee ( Bruxelles ) .
Somewhat similar investigations have been made by medical officers in other areas .
Other independent , or partially independent agencies , have promoted investigations on topics directly or indirectly related to demography .
These studies vary widely in scope and precision .
L'Institut pour La Recherche Scientifique En Afrique Centrale ( IRSAC ) has sponsored well-designed field investigations and has cooperated closely with the government of Ruanda-Urundi in the development of its official statistics .
A massive investigation of the characteristics of in-migrants and prospective out-migrants in Ruanda-Urundi is being carried on by J. J. Maquet , former Director of the Social Science branch of IRSAC , now a professor at l'Universite Officielle Du Congo Belge et Du Ruanda-Urundi .
Some 30,000 completed schedules with 20 items ( collected by sub-chiefs in 1,100 circumscriptions ) have been tabulated .
The results are now being analyzed .
Statistics have been recognized as a matter of strategic importance in the Congo and in Ruanda-Urundi during the post-war years in connection with long-term economic and social programs .
The AIMO organizations of both countries , which maintain administrative services throughout the territories , retained immediate responsibility for the collection and publication of demographic information .
However , the statistical offices of both governments were assigned responsibility for the planning and analysis of these statistics .
A Bureau De La Demographie ( A. Romaniuk , Director ) was formed under AIMO in the Congo , to work in close rapport with the Section Statistique of the Secretariat General .
Eventually responsibility for demographic inquiries in the Congo was transferred to the demographic division of the Central Statistical Office .
The 1952 demographic inquiry in Ruanda-Urundi was directed by V. Neesen , a member of the IRSAC staff , though the inquiry was carried out under the auspices of AIMO , which has continuing responsibility for demographic statistics in this territory .
A member of the IRSAC staff ( E. Van De Walle ) was recently delegated to cooperate with AIMO in the development of demographic statistics in this territory .
The initiation of sampling censuses in Ruanda-Urundi ( 1952 ) and in the Congo ( 1955 - 57 ) were major advances .
We will deal first with the program in the Congo though this was put into operation later than the other .
The radical nature of the innovation in the Congo was not emphasized in the official announcements .
The term enquetes demographiques , previously used for the supplementary investigations carried out in connection with the administrative censuses , was used for the new investigations .
However , the differences in procedure are fundamental .
These are as follows : ( 1 ) field work procedures .
Field operations were transferred from administrative personnel primarily engaged in other tasks to specially trained teams of full-time African investigators ( three teams , each working in two provinces ) .
These teams carried out the same operations successively in different areas .
( 2 ) nature of the sample .
Sample areas in the new investigations were selected strictly by application of the principles of probability theory , so as to be representative of the total population of defined areas within calculable limits .
In short , scientific sampling was introduced in place of subjective sampling .
The populations of the various districts , or other major divisions , were stratified by type of community ( rural , urban , mixed ) and , where appropriate , by ethnic affiliation and by type of economy .
Sample units ( villages in rural areas , houses in cities ) were drawn systematically within these strata .
( 3 ) size of the sample .
Different sampling ratios were applied under different conditions .
Higher proportions were sampled in urban and mixed communities than in rural areas .
About 11 percent of the total population was covered in the new investigation , as compared with about 3 percent in the previous inquiries .
( 4 ) questions and definitions .
Uniform questions , definitions , and procedures were enforced throughout the whole country .
Data were obtained , separately , on three classes of persons : ( A ) residents , present ; ;
( B ) residents , absent ; ;
and ( C ) visitors .
In the reports , summary results are given for both the de facto ( A and C ) and de jure ( A and B ) populations ; ;
but the subsequent analysis of characteristics is reported only for the de jure population ( or , in some districts , only the de facto population ) .
These changes represent , in effect , a shift from ( 1 ) an administrative compilation of data obtained through procedures designed primarily to serve political and economic objectives to ( 2 ) a systematic sampling census of the whole African population .
The population registration system still has important functions .
It supplies local data which are useful in administration and which can be used as a basis for intensive studies in particular situations .
It provides a frame for the sampling census .
It also provides a frame within which the registration of vital events is gradually gaining force ( though one cannot expect to obtain reliable vital statistics in most parts of the Congo from this source in the near future ) .
It is still used in making current population estimates in post-census years , though the value of these estimates is open to question .
Finally , it may have certain very important , less obvious values .
Even though the registers may have an incomplete record of persons present in a particular area or include persons no longer living there , they contain precise information on ages , by date of birth , for some of the persons present ( especially children in relatively stable communities ) and supplementary information ( such as records of marital status ) for many others .
The quality of the census data can , therefore , be greatly improved by the use of the registration records in conjunction with the field inquiries .
Furthermore , it may be possible to estimate the error due to bias in method ( as distinguished from sampling error ) in each of these sources , on such subjects as fertility , mortality , and migration during a given interval by using information from two largely independent sources in conjunction .
The first sampling census in the Congo extended over a three-year period , 1955 - 57 ; ;
the results were still being processed in 1959 .
It is planned to double the number of teams and to make use of improved equipment in a second demographic inquiry in 1960 , so that the inquiry can be carried through in one year and the results published more expeditiously .
It is proposed that in the future complete sampling censuses be carried out at five-year intervals .
Reports already issued on the sampling census , 1955 - 57 , in various areas run as follows ( using only the French and omitting corresponding Flemish titles ) .
This report contains preliminary notes and 35 tables .
Other reports in identical form , but with somewhat varying content , have been issued .
These area reports will be followed , according to present plans , by a summary report , which will include a detailed statement on methods .
With this evidence in mind , the writer began to plan how he might more effectively educate the married students in his functional classes .
Toward the end of the semester's work , he interviewed every married class member at great length .
He found , as he had suspected , a general consensus that perhaps over half of the present functionally designed course was not really functional for these students .
However , all admitted that the `` hindsight '' was not altogether lost .
In their own words , it had aided them to get a clearer picture of how they had gotten into their marriages , and perhaps they had obtained some insights on why certain troubles appeared from time to time .
In fact , they went so far as to caution the writer that if he attempted to design a section exclusively for married students there should be , at the beginning , some `` hindsight '' study ; ;
but they all hastened to add that certainly less time was needed on it than presently spent .
All of them felt a compelling need for more coverage on areas that could be only lightly touched upon in a general survey functional course .
A few were doubtful about the merits of an exclusive section for married students .
As one of them expressed it , `` It has done me a world of good to listen to the naive questions and comments of these not-yet-married people .
I can now better see just what processes provoked certain actions from me in the past .
Had I been in an all-married section I would have missed this , and I believe that this single aspect has been of great personal value to me '' .
This comment and others similar to it , would seem to indicate a possible justification for continuing the status quo .
But the weight of feeling was heavily in the opposite direction .
Thus , the writer decided to hold one experimental section of the functional preparation for marriage course in the spring semester of 1960 exclusively for persons already married -- that is , prerequisite : `` marriage '' .
This did not mean that married students could not enroll in other `` mixed '' sections , and some of them , largely because of scheduling difficulties , did .
But only those already married could enroll in this one section .
In addition , two other differences in the two types of sections must be noted .
( 1 ) The regular sections do not allow freshmen ; ;
this one did .
This action was rationalized on the basis of a small survey which indicated that a high percentage of married freshmen women on our campus never become sophomores .
Many of them appear to drop out , for one reason or another .
By permitting freshman students we might extend the opportunity for such a course to some individuals who otherwise might never get to take it .
This has subsequently been verified by the experience .
( 2 ) Auditors were encouraged .
In the regular sections they have always been more or less discouraged .
The philosophy has been that if they could find the time to attend class why not encourage them to get the credit and perhaps provide an incentive to do the work more effectively .
Besides , auditors do not count on faculty load with the same weight as regularly enrolled students .
But in this one section we welcomed auditors .
Why ? ?
For no particular reason , other than that the writer felt it might -- just might -- encourage both mates to be in attendance .
Many of the men on our campus have a pretty set curriculum , especially in the various engineering fields , with few electives till the senior year .
Incidentally , it needs to be noted that because auditors were permitted the section began increasing in numbers each week , until at last it swelled to such proportions that this `` free '' auditing policy had to be retracted .
After that , we began to get `` visitors '' to class .
This experimental class represented quite a variety of students .
It ranged from a freshman woman , just married , through the various academic growth stages , including one senior-graduate student , to a young faculty member recently married to a senior man who also attended .
It ranged from those with no children , through students in various stages of pregnancy , to one 44-year-old male with four children , three of whom were teenagers .
It ranged from two women members who had experienced premarital pregnancy to one couple twelve years married and seemingly unable to conceive .
One might digress at this point and speculate that if it is `` wise '' to create special sections for special status , then why not a special section for women pregnant before marriage , and one for 44-year-old men with teenage children , and so on .
Some of these speculations may have some merit , others are somewhat ambiguous .
But few who have experienced marriage can dispute the fact that the focus of interpersonal relationships is different in marriage than in a pre-marital situation .
The writer began this special class by explaining his background thinking for creating such a section in the first place .
He made it clear from the beginning that this was the students' opportunity , and that the future destiny of such groups depended on favorable results from this one .
He did build a framework of academic `` respectability '' , and one which did not encroach upon the `` sacred sovereignty '' of any other existing campus course .
This is to say that this was not a course in wise buying or money spending methods , nor a course in how to raise children .
We already have courses covering those problems , and so on .
But within that framework he allowed for as much flexibility as possible .
A steering committee of students was organized on the first day whose duty it was to be alert and constantly evaluate and re-evaluate the direction and pace the class was taking .
The writer , being cognizant through his interviews of the reactions of previous married students , did insist on there being included some `` hindsight '' material .
But the greater part of semester time was actually centered around the attitudes : `` So we are married -- now how do we make the best of it '' ? ?
Or `` How do we enrich our already fine marriage '' ? ?
Films were used , as with all sections , but with one big difference .
Our campus , unfortunately , owns no films .
Since they are all either rented or borrowed , the requested dates for their use have to be far in advance .
The writer never knew from week to week just where the section might be .
For example , the steering committee might announce that the group felt a topic under study should not be dropped for an additional week as there was still too much of it untouched .
Since the writer had established this democratic procedure in the beginning he had to go along with their decision -- after , of course , pointing out whether he thought their decision was a wise or an unwise one .
Thus the films seen as they came in ( coordinated for the regular sections ) , were often out of context .
Nevertheless , the writer has never experienced such spontaneity of discussion after film showings .
Though it did not become known to the writer for some time , a nucleus group had sprung up within the class .
They began to meet in the evenings and carry forward various discussions they felt not fully enough covered in class .
From a few students this group gradually increased to include over three-fourths of those officially enrolled in the class , and many outsiders as well .
Also , although only a few of the students were intimately acquainted with each other in the beginning , most reported that when the semester ended their dearest and closest campus friendships were with members of that class .
In fact , they often revamped their social activities to include class members previously unknown .
Supplemental outside reading reports were handled just as in the other sections , the major difference being that there was a noticeably deeper level in the reported outside reading by the married group .
These students , although they might read various articles in popular magazines , more often chose to report on articles found in the journals .
In addition to the noticeable difference in outside articles , there was a considerable difference in the outside books they read .
Whereas a high percentage of the regular students can be expected to read other texts which more or less plow the same ground in a little different direction , the married students chose whole books on specific areas and went into much greater detail in their areas of interest .
Since the writer had not noticed this characteristic in married students scattered throughout the various sections previous to this experiment , nor , as a matter of fact , in those who were continuing in `` single sections '' , he can only conclude that there must have been something `` contagious '' within the specific group which caused this to occur .
In the main , this course took the following directional high roads .
( 1 ) A great deal of time was spent on processes for solving marital differences .
This was not a search for a `` magic formula '' , but rather an examination of basic principles pertaining especially to all types of communication in marriage .
In short , it was centered around learning how to develop a more sensitive empathy .
Not until the group was satisfied in this area were they willing to venture further to ( 2 ) , Specific adjustment areas , such as sex , in-laws , religion , finance , and so on .
From here they proceeded to ( 3 ) These same areas in relation to their own future family life stages , developing these to the extent of examining various crises which could be expected to confront them at some time or other .
As an example of this last facet , there were some lengthy discussions centered around bereavement .
Mainly these were concerned with the possibility of the death of one parent and the complication of living with the survivor afterward , but the possible death of one's own spouse was not overlooked .
Since the course , one member has lost her husband .
This was not a particularly shocking or unexpected thing -- it was previously known to her that it might happen .
But just when was an unknown , and of course the longer it did not happen , the stronger her wish and belief that it might not .
Since her bereavement this individual has reported to the writer on numerous occasions about how helpful the class discussions were to her in this adjustment crisis .
Quite frequently class members brought questions from their mates at home .
These were often carefully written out with a great deal of thought behind them .
This added a personal zest to class discussions and participation .
Both sexes reported that the discussions on sex adjustment within marriage were extremely enlightening .
The writer sensed a much freer and more frank discussion , especially of this one area , than ever before .
He felt certain for the first time in his teaching experience that the men in the class understood that orgasm , as a criterion , is not nearly so essential for a satisfying female sexual experience as most males might think .
This was probably much more meaningful because all the women in the class emphasized it time and again .
On the other hand , the women class members appeared to reach a far greater understanding than have women members in other sections that it is more natural for males as a group to view sex as sex rather than always associating it with love as most women seem to do .
In the reproductive area it could be readily observed that all felt freer to discuss things than students had previously in `` mixed '' marital status sections .
Perhaps this was related to the fact that all were in on it to some extent .
Never in other sections has there been the opportunity for the genuine down-to-earth discussions about the feelings of both spouses during various stages of pregnancy .
There was a particularly marvelous opportunity for study in this area since almost every stage of pregnancy was represented , from a childless couple to and including every trimester .
In fact , we had one birth before the end of the course , and another student had to take the final examiantion a week early , just to be on the safe side .
There was also one spontaneous abortion during the semester .
Thus it is reasonable to believe that there is a significant difference between the two groups in their performance on this task after a brief `` structuring '' experience .
It was predicted that Kohnstamm-negative subjects would adhere to more liberal , concretistic reports of what the ambiguous figure `` looked like '' as reflecting their hesitancy about taking chances .
This was true mostly of those Kohnstamm-negative subjects who did not perceive the ambiguous figure as people in action .
Responses such as `` rope with a loop in it '' , and `` two pieces of rope '' , were quite characteristic .
Guilford-Martin personality inventories .
The three personality inventories ( Guilford ; ;
Guilford-Martin ; ;
Guilford-Martin ) were filled out by 12 of the Kohnstamm-positive subjects and 19 of the Kohnstamm-negative subjects .
These were the same subjects who were given the Rorschach test .
Some predictions had been made concerning factors R , N , I and Co on these inventories which appeared to be directly related to control and security aspects of personality functioning which were hypothesized as being of importance in differential Kohnstamm reactivity .
Only Co differentiated between the two groups at less than the 5% level ( Af ) .
One prediction had been made about the difference in security or self-confidence between those subjects who shifted their Kohnstamm reactivity when informed and those who did not .
The nonreactors had been separated into two groups on this assumption with the presumably `` secure '' nonreactors and `` secure '' reactors being used as the groups for comparative personality studies .
It was predicted that those who shifted in their Kohnstamm reactivity would differ significantly from those who did not on the factor I which the investigators refer to as the `` Inferiority '' factor .
All of the subjects in the Kohnstamm-negative and Kohnstamm-positive groups ( as defined for purposes of the personality studies ) were compared with those subjects who shifted in Conditions 3 , or 4 .
A t test on these two groups , shifters vs. nonshifters , gave a `` t '' value of 2.405 which is significant on the two-tail test at the
level .
Discussion
individual differences
Individual differences in Kohnstamm reactivity to controlled Kohnstamm situations were found among the subjects used in the study .
Only 27% ( 11 subjects ) gave a positive Kohnstamm reaction when completely naive concerning the phenomenon .
There were 49% ( 20 subjects ) who did not give a positive reaction even after they were informed of the normalcy of such a reaction and had been given a demonstration .
There were 24% ( 10 subjects ) who shifted from a negative to a positive reaction after they were reassured as to the normalcy of the Kohnstamm-positive reaction .
Among this latter group there were also differences in the amount and kind of information necessary before a shift in reaction occurred .
One subject changed when given only the information that some people have something happen to their arm when they relax .
Five subjects ( 12% ) did not change until they had been told that some people have something happen to their arm , what that something was , and also were given a demonstration .
Four subjects ( 10% ) did not change even then but needed the additional information that an arm-elevation under these circumstances was a perfectly normal reflex reaction which some people showed while others did not .
At no time was it implied by the experimenter that the subject's initial reaction was deviant .
The subjects were only given information about other possibilities of `` normal '' reaction .
Those who responded with an arm-elevation in the naive state did not change their reaction when told that there were some normal people who did not react in this fashion .
This information was accepted with the frequent interpretation that those persons who did not show arm-levitation must be preventing it .
These subjects implied that they too could prevent their arms from rising if they tried .
The positive Kohnstamm reactivity in Condition 1 ( ( the naive state ) is not adequately explained by such a concept as suggestibility ( if suggestibility is defined as the influence on behavior by verbal cues ) .
In no way , either verbally or behaviorally , did the experimenter indicate to the subjects any preferred mode of responding to the voluntary contraction .
Moreover , when the experimenter did inform those subjects that there were some normal people who did not have their arm rise once they relaxed , the Kohnstamm-positive subjects were uninfluenced in their subsequent reactions to the Kohnstamm situation .
They continued to give an arm-elevation .
A differential suggestibility would have to be invoked to explain the failure of this additional information to influence the Kohnstamm-positive reactors and yet attribute their naive Kohnstamm reactivity to suggestion .
Autosuggestibility , the reaction of the subject in such a way as to conform to his own expectations of the outcome ( i.e. , that the arm-rise is a reaction to the pressure exerted in the voluntary contraction , because of his knowledge that `` to every reaction there is an equal and opposite reaction '' ) also seems inadequate as an explanation for the following reasons : ( 1 ) the subjects' apparently genuine experience of surprise when their arms rose , and ( 2 ) manifestations of the phenomenon despite anticipations of something else happening ( e.g. , of becoming dizzy and maybe falling , an expectation spontaneously volunteered by one of the subjects ) .
A suggestion Hypothesis also seems inadequate as an explanation for those who shifted their reactions after they were informed of the possibilities of `` normal '' reactions different from those which they gave .
While they were told that there were some normal people who reacted differently than they had , they were also informed that there were other normals who reacted as they had .
There was no implication made that their initial reaction ( absence of an arm-elevation ) was less preferred than the presence of levitation .
A more tenable explanation for the change in reactions is that the added knowledge and increased familiarity with the total situation made it possible for these subjects to be less guarded and to relax , since any reaction seemed acceptable to the examiner as `` normal '' .
The naive state , Condition 1 , , could therefore be viewed as an inhibiting one for 24% of the subjects in this study .
They were not free to be themselves in this situation , an interpersonal one , where there was an observer of their reactions and they had no guide for acceptable behavior .
Instructions to relax , i.e. , to be `` spontaneous '' , and react immediately to whatever impulse they might have , was not sufficiently reassuring until some idea of the possibilities of normal reactions had been given .
While other conditions might be even more effective in bringing about a change from immobility to mobility in Kohnstamm reactivity , it is our hypothesis that all such conditions would have as a common factor the capacity to induce an attitude in the subject which enabled him to divorce himself temporarily from feelings of responsibility for his behavior .
Alcohol ingestion succeeded in changing immobility to mobility quite strikingly in one pilot subject ( the only one with whom this technique was tried ) .
This subject , who has been undergoing psychoanalytic psychotherapy for five years , did not give a positive Kohnstamm reaction under any of the four standardized conditions used in this experiment while sober .
After two drinks containing alcohol , her arm flew upward very freely .
There was evident delight on the part of the subject in response to her experience of the freedom of movement .
She described herself as having the same kind of `` irresponsible '' feeling as she had once experienced under hypnosis .
She ascribed her delight with both experiences to the effect they seemed to have of temporarily removing from her the controls which she felt so compulsively necessary to maintain even when it might seem appropriate to relax these controls .
Many subjects attributed differences in Kohnstamm reactivity to differences in degrees of subjective control -- voluntary as the Kohnstamm-positive subjects perceived it and involuntary as the Kohnstamm-negative subjects perceived it .
These suggested interpretations were given by the subjects spontaneously when they were told that there were people who reacted differently than they had .
The Kohnstamm-positive subjects described the vivid experience of having their arms rise as one in which they exercised no control .
They explained its absence in others on the basis of an intervention of control factors .
They felt that they too could counteract the upward arm movement by a voluntary effort after they had once experienced the reaction .
Some of those who did not initially react with an arm-elevation also associated their behavior in the situation with control factors -- an inability to relinquish control voluntarily .
One subject spontaneously asked ( after her arm had finally risen ) , `` Do you suppose I was unconsciously keeping it down before '' ? ?
Another said that her arm did not go up at first `` because I wouldn't let it ; ;
I thought it wasn't supposed to '' .
This subject was one who gave an arm-elevation on the second trial in the naive state but not in the first .
She had felt that her arm wanted to go up in the first trial , but had consciously prevented it from so doing .
She explained nonreactivity of others by saying that they were `` not letting themselves relax '' .
When informed that there were some persons who did not have their arm go up , she commented , `` I don't see how they can prevent it '' .
In contrast to this voluntary-control explanation for nonreactivity given by the Kohnstamm-positive subjects , the Kohnstamm-negative subjects offered an involuntary-control hypothesis to explain nonreactivity .
They felt that they were relaxing as much as they could and that any control factors which might be present to prevent response must be on an unconscious level .
The above discussion does not mean to imply that control factors were completely in abeyance in the Kohnstamm-positive subjects ; ;
but rather that they could be diminished sufficiently not to interfere with arm-levitation .
One Kohnstamm-positive subject who had both arms rise while being tested in the naive condition described her subjective experience as follows : `` You feel they're going up and you're on a stage and it's not right for them to do so and then you think maybe that's what's supposed to happen '' .
She then described her experience as one in which she first had difficulty accepting for herself a state of being in which she relinquished control .
However , she was able to relax and yield to the moment .
It is our hypothesis that Kohnstamm-positive subjects are less hesitant about relinquishing control than are Kohnstamm-negative subjects ; ;
that they can give up their control and allow themselves to be reactors rather than actors .
It is our belief that this readiness to relinquish some control was evidenced by the Kohnstamm-positive subjects in some of the other experimental situations to be discussed below .
Thus , this readiness to relax controls , evidenced in the Kohnstamm situation , appears to be a more general personality factor .
Aniseikonic illusion
The Kohnstamm-positive subjects seemed to be freer to experience the unusual and seemingly impossible in the external world .
There was a significantly greater number in this group who reported a desk as being in a tilted position while a tennis ball resting on it remained stationary on the incline .
This occurred in spite of the rational awareness that the ball should be going downhill .
They knew that their perceptual experience differed from objective reality since they had seen the desk and ball prior to putting on the aniseikonic lenses .
Yet they were not so bound by past experience and constriction as to deny their immediate perceptions and to be dominated by their knowledge of what the experience should be .
The change in perceptions by some of the Kohnstamm-negative subjects , after they had been informed of the possibilities of normal reactions , suggests that their constriction and guardedness is associated with their general mode of responding to strange or unknown situations .
They were able to experience at first , in terms of past conventionality .
When informed as to the various possibilities of normal reactions , they were then able to experience the uniqueness of the present .
It might be postulated that these subjects are unduly afraid of being wrong ; ;
that they perceive new internal and environmental situations as `` threatening '' until they are tested and proved otherwise .
While the interpretations that have been given are inferences only , they gain support from such comments as the following , which was made by one of the Kohnstamm-negative subjects who did not , on the first trial , perceive the tilt illusion .
Control of socioeconomic status
It would have been desirable for the two communities to have differed only in respect to the variable being investigated : the degree of structure in teaching method .
The structured schools were in an industrial city , with three-family tenement houses typical of the residential areas , but with one rather sizable section of middle-class homes .
The unstructured schools were in a large suburban community , predominantly middle- to upper-middle class , but fringed by an industrial area .
In order to equate the samples on socioeconomic status , we chose schools in both cities on the basis of socioeconomic status of the neighborhoods .
School principals and guidance workers made ratings of the various neighborhoods and the research team made independent observations of houses and dwelling areas .
An objective scale was developed for rating school neighborhoods from these data .
Equal proportions of children in each city were drawn from upper-lower and lower-middle class neighborhoods .
Subjects
Individual differences in maturation and the development of readiness for learning to read indicate that not until the third grade have most children had ample opportunity to demonstrate their capacity for school achievement .
Therefore , third-grade children were chosen as subjects for this study .
For purposes of sample selection only ( individual tests were given later ) we obtained group test scores of reading achievement and intelligence from school records of the entire third-grade population in each school system .
The subjects for this study were randomly selected from stratified areas of the distribution , one-third as underachievers , one-third medium , and one-third over-achievers .
Children whose reading scores were at least one standard deviation below the regression line of each total third-grade school population were considered under-achievers for the purposes of sample selection .
Over-achievers were at least one standard deviation above the regression line in their school system .
The final sample was not significantly different from a normal distribution in regard to reading achievement or intelligence test scores .
Twenty-four classrooms in twelve unstructured schools furnished 156 cases , 87 boys and 69 girls .
Eight classrooms in three structured schools furnished 72 cases , 36 boys and 36 girls .
Administrative restrictions necessitated the smaller sample size in the structured schools .
It was assumed that the sampling procedure was purely random with respect to the personality variables under investigation .
Rating scale of compulsivity
An interview schedule of open-ended questions and a multiple-choice questionnaire were prepared , and one parent of each of the sample children was seen in the home .
The parent was asked to describe the child's typical behavior in certain standard situations in which there was an opportunity to observe tendencies toward perfectionism in demands upon self and others , irrational conformity to rules , orderliness , punctuality , and need for certainty .
The interviewers were instructed not to suggest answers and , as much as possible , to record the parents' actual words as they described the child's behavior in home situations .
The rating scale of compulsivity was constructed by first perusing the interview records , categorizing all evidence related to compulsivity , then arranging a distribution of such information apart from the case records .
Final ratings were made on the basis of a point system which was developed after studying the distributions of actual behaviors recorded and assigning weight values to each type of behavior that was deviant from the discovered norms .
Children scoring high in compulsivity were those who gave evidence of tension or emotionality in situations where there was lack of organization or conformity to standards and expectations , or who made exaggerated efforts to achieve these goals .
The low compulsive child was one who appeared relatively unconcerned about such matters .
For instance , the following statement was rated low in compulsivity , `` She's naturally quite neat about things , but it doesn't bother her at all if her room gets messy .
But she cleans it up very well when I remind her '' .
Measurement of anxiety
Castaneda , et al revised the Taylor Anxiety Scale for use with children .
The Taylor Scale was adapted from the Minnesota Multiphastic Personality Inventory , with item selection based upon clinical definitions of anxiety .
There is much research evidence to validate the use of the instrument in differentiating individuals who are likely to manifest anxiety in varying degrees .
Reliability and validation work with the Children's Anxiety Scale by Castaneda , et al demonstrated results closely similar to the findings with the adult scale .
Although the Taylor Scale was designed as a group testing device , in this study it was individually administered by psychologically trained workers who established rapport and assisted the children in reading the items .
Relationship of Anxiety to compulsivity
The question may be raised whether or not we are dealing with a common factor in anxiety and compulsivity .
The two ratings yield a correlation of , which is not significantly different from zero ; ;
therefore , we have measured two different characteristics .
In theory , compulsive behavior is a way of diminishing anxiety , and one might expect a negative association except for the possibility that for many children the obsessive-compulsive defenses are not sufficient to quell the amount of anxiety they suffer .
The issue of interaction between anxiety and compulsivity will be taken up later .
Criterion measurement
In the primary grades , reading permeates almost every aspect of school progress , and the children's early experiences of success or failure in learning to read often set a pattern of total achievement that is relatively enduring throughout the following years .
In establishing criterion measurements , it was therefore thought best to broaden the scope beyond the reading act itself .
The predicted interaction effect should , if potent , extend its influence over all academic achievement .
The Stanford Achievement Test , Form J , was administered by classroom teachers , consisting of a battery of six sub-tests : Paragraph Meaning , Word Meaning , Spelling , Language , Arithmetic Computation , and Arithmetic Reasoning .
All of these sub-tests involve reading except Arithmetic Computation .
Scores are stated in grade-equivalents on a national norm .
The battery median grade-equivalent was used in data analysis in this study .
The Wechsler Intelligence Scale For Children was administered to each sample third-grade child by a clinical worker .
The relationship of intelligence test scores to school achievement is a well-established fact ( in this case , Af ) ; ;
therefore , in the investigation of the present hypothesis , it was necessary to control this factor .
The criterion score used in the statistical analysis is an index of over- or under-achievement .
It is the discrepancy between the actual attained achievement test score and the score that would be predicted by the I.Q. .
For example , on the basis of the regression equation , a child with an I.Q. of 120 in this sample would be expected to earn an achievement test score of 4.8 ( grade equivalent ) .
If a child with an I.Q. of 120 scored 5.5 in achievement , his discrepancy score would be , representing of one year of over-achievement .
A child with an I.Q. of 98 would be expected to earn an achievement test score of 3.5 .
If such a child scored 3.0 , his discrepancy score would be -.5 , representing of one year of under-achievement .
In this manner , the factors measured by the intelligence test were controlled , allowing discovered differences in achievement to be interpreted as resulting from other variables .
Results
test of interaction of compulsivity and teaching methods
Tables 1 and 2 present the results of the statistical analysis of the data when compulsivity is used as the descriptive variable .
Figure 1 portrays the mean achievement scores of each sub-group graphically .
First of all , as we had surmised , the highly compulsive children in the structured setting score significantly better ( Af ) on achievement than do similar children in the unstructured schools .
It can be seen too that when we contrast levels of compulsivity within the structured schools , the high compulsive children do better ( Af ) .
No significant difference was found in achievement between high and low compulsive children within the unstructured school .
The hypothesis of there being an interaction between compulsivity and teaching method was supported , in this case , at the level .
While we had expected that compulsive children in the unstructured school setting would have difficulty when compared to those in the structured , we were surprised to find that the achievement of the high compulsives within the schools where the whole-word method is used in beginning reading compares favorably with that of the low compulsives .
Indeed their achievement scores were somewhat better on an absolute basis although the difference was not significant .
We speculate that compulsives in the unstructured schools are under greater strain because of the lack of systemization in their school setting , but that their need to organize ( for comfort ) is so intense that they struggle to induce the phonic rules and achieve in spite of the lack of direction from the environment .
It is interesting to note that medium compulsives in the unstructured schools made the lowest achievement scores ( although not significantly lower ) .
Possibly their compulsivity was not strong enough to cause them to build their own structure .
Our conjecture is , then , that regardless of the manner in which school lessons are taught , the compulsive child accentuates those elements of each lesson that aid him in systematizing his work .
When helped by a high degree of structure in lesson presentation , then , and only then , does such a child attain unusual success .
Test of interaction of anxiety and teaching methods
The statistical analyses of achievement in relation to anxiety and teaching methods and the interactions of the two are presented in Tables 3 and 4 .
Figure 2 is a graph of the mean achievement scores of each group .
As predicted , the highly anxious children in the unstructured schools score more poorly ( Af ) than those in the structured schools .
The interaction effect , which is significant at the level , can be seen best in the contrast of mean scores .
While high anxiety children achieve significantly less well ( Af ) in the unstructured school than do low anxiety children , they appear to do at least as well as the average in the structured classroom .
The most striking aspect of the interaction demonstrated is the marked decrement in performance suffered by the highly anxious children in unstructured schools .
According to the theory proposed , this is a consequence of the severe condition of perceived threat that persists unabated for the anxious child in an ambiguous sort of school environment .
The fact that such threat is potent in the beginning reading lessons is thought to be a vital factor in the continued pattern of failure or under-achievement these children exhibit .
The child with high anxiety may first direct his anxiety-released energy toward achievement , but because his distress severely reduces the abilities of discrimination and memorization of complex symbols , the child may fail in his initial attempts to master the problem .
Failure confirms the threat , and the intensity of anxiety is increased as the required learning becomes more difficult , so that by the time the child reaches the third grade the decrement in performance is pronounced .
The individual with high anxiety in the structured classroom may approach the learning task with the same increased energy and lowered powers of discrimination .
But the symbols he is asked to learn are simple .
As shown earlier , the highly anxious individual may be superior in his memorizing of simple elements .
Success reduces the prospect of threat and his powers of discrimination are improved .
By the time the child first attacks the actual problem of reading , he is completely familiar and at ease with all of the elements of words .
Apparently academic challenge in the structured setting creates an optimum of stress so that the child with high anxiety is able to achieve because he is aroused to an energetic state without becoming confused or panicked .
Sarason et al present evidence that the anxious child will suffer in the test-like situation , and that his performance will be impaired unless he receives supporting and accepting treatment from the teacher .
Although the present study was not a direct replication of their investigations , the results do not confirm their conclusion .
Observers , in the two school systems studied here , judged the teachers in the structured schools to be more impersonal and demanding , while the atmosphere in the unstructured schools was judged to be more supporting and accepting .
Yet the highly anxious child suffered a tremendous disadvantage only in the unstructured school , and performed as well or better than average in the structured setting .
Analysis
Analysis means the evaluation of subparts , the comparative ratings of parts , the comprehension of the meaning of isolated elements .
Analysis in roleplaying is usually done for the purpose of understanding strong and weak points of an individual or as a process to eliminate weak parts and strengthen good parts .
Impersonal purposes
Up to this point stress has been placed on roleplaying in terms of individuals .
Roleplaying can be done for quite a different purpose : to evaluate procedures , regardless of individuals .
For example : a sales presentation can be analyzed and evaluated through roleplaying .
Examples
Let us now put some flesh on the theoretical bones we have assembled by giving illustrations of roleplaying used for evaluation and analysis .
One should keep in mind that many of the exciting possiblities of roleplaying are largely unexplored and have not been used in industry to the extent that they have been in military and other areas .
Evaluation
The president of a small firm selling restaurant products , had considerable difficulty in finding suitable salesmen for his business .
Interviewing , checking references , training the salesmen , having them go with more experienced salesmen was expensive -- and the rate of attrition due to resignations or unsatisfactory performance was too high .
It was his experience that only one good salesman was found out of every seven hired -- and only one was hired out of every seven interviewed .
Roleplaying was offered as a solution -- and the procedure worked as follows : all candidates were invited to a hotel conference room , where the president explained the difficulty he had , and how unnecessary it seemed to him to hire people who just did not work out .
In place of asking salesmen to fill questionnaires , checking their references , interviewing them , asking them to be tried out , he told them he would prefer to test them .
Each person was to enter the testing room , carrying a suitcase of samples .
Each salesman was to read a sheet containing a description of the product .
In the testing room he was to make , successively , three presentations to three different people .
In the testing room , three of the veteran salesmen served as antagonists .
One handled the salesman in a friendly manner , another in a rough manner , and the third in a hesitating manner .
Each was told to purchase material if he felt like it .
The antagonists came in , one at a time , and did not see or hear the other presentations .
After each presentation , the antagonist wrote his judgment of the salesmen ; ;
and so did the observers consisting of the president , three of his salesmen and a psychologist .
Ten salesmen were tested in the morning and ten more in the afternoon .
This procedure was repeated one day a month for four months .
The batting average of one success out of seven increased to one out of three .
The president of the firm , calculating expenses alone , felt his costs had dropped one-half while success in selection had improved over one hundred per cent .
The reason for the value of this procedure was simply that the applicants were tested `` at work '' in different situations by the judgment of a number of experts who could see how the salesmen conducted themselves with different , but typical restaurant owners and managers .
They were , in a sense , `` tried out '' in realistic situations .
From the point of view of the applicants , less time was wasted in being evaluated -- and they got a meal out of it as well as some insights into their performances .
Another use of roleplaying for evaluation illustrates how this procedure can be used in real life situations without special equipment or special assistants during the daily course of work .
The position of receptionist was opened in a large office and an announcement was made to the other girls already working that they could apply for this job which had higher prestige and slightly higher salary than typing and clerking positions .
All applicants were generally familiar with the work of the receptionist .
At the end of work one day , the personnel man took the applicants one at a time , asked them to sit behind the receptionist's desk and he then played the role of a number of people who might come to the receptionist with a number of queries and for a number of purposes .
Each girl was independently `` tested '' by the personnel man , and he served not only as the director , but as the antagonist and the observer .
Somewhat to his surprise he found that one girl , whom he would never have considered for the job since she had appeared somewhat mousy and also had been in the office a relatively short time , did the most outstanding job of playing the role of receptionist , showing wit , sparkle , and aplomb .
She was hired and was found to be entirely satisfactory when she played the role eight hours a day .
Analysis
In considering roleplaying for analysis we enter a more complex area , since we are now no longer dealing with a simple over-all decision but rather with the examination and evaluation of many elements seen in dynamic functioning .
Some cases in evidence of the use of roleplaying for analysis may help explain the procedure .
An engineer had been made the works manager of a firm , supplanting a retired employee who had been considered outstandingly successful .
The engineer had more than seven years of experience in the firm , was well trained , was considered a hard worker , was respected by his fellow engineers for his technical competence and was regarded as a `` comer '' .
However , he turned out to be a complete failure in his new position .
He seemed to antagonize everyone .
Turnover rates of personnel went up , production dropped , and morale was visibly reduced .
Despite the fact that he was regarded as an outstanding engineer , he seemed to be a very poor administrator , although no one quite knew what was wrong with him .
At the insistence of his own supervisor -- the president of the firm -- he enrolled in a course designed to develop leaders .
He played a number of typical situations before observers , other supervisors who kept notes and then explained to him in detail what he did they thought was wrong .
Entirely concerned with efficiency , he was merciless in criticizing people who made mistakes , condemning them to too great an extent .
He did not really listen to others , had little interest in their ideas , and wanted to have his own way -- which was the only right way .
The entire group of managers explained , in great detail , a number of human relations errors that he made .
One by one , these errors were discussed and one by one he rejected accepting them as errors .
He admitted his behavior , and defended it .
He refused to change his approach , and instead he attacked high and low -- the officials for their not backing him , and subordinates for their laxness , stupidity , and stubbornness .
After the diagnosing , he left the course , convinced that it could do him no good .
We may say that his problem was diagnosed but that he refused treatment .
The engineer turned works manager had a particular view of life -- and refused to change it .
We may say that his attitude was foolish , since he may have been a success had he learned some human relations skills ; ;
or we may say that his attitude was commendable , showing his independence of mind , in his refusal to adjust to the opinions of others .
In any case , he refused to accept the implications of the analysis , that he needed to be made over .
Another case may be given in illustration of a successful use of analysis , and also of the employment of a procedure for intensive analysis .
In a course for supermarket operators , a district manager who had been recently appointed to his position after being outstandingly successful as a store manager , found that in supervising other managers he was having a difficult time .
On playing some typical situations before a jury of his peers he showed some characteristics rated as unsatisfactory .
He was told he displayed , for example , a sense of superiority -- and he answered : `` Well , I am supposed to know all the answers , aren't I '' ? ?
He was criticized for his curtness and abruptness -- and he answered : `` I am not working to become popular '' .
On being criticized for his arbitrary behavior -- he answered : `` I have to make decisions .
That's my job '' .
In short , as frequently happens in analyses , the individual feels threatened and defends himself .
However , in this case the district manager was led to see the errors of his ways .
The necessary step between diagnosis and training is acceptance of the validity of the criticisms .
How this was accomplished may be described , since this sometimes is a crucial problem .
The director helped tailor-make a check list of the district manager's errors by asking various observers to write out sentences commenting on the mistakes they felt he made .
These errors were then collected and written on a blackboard , condensing similar ideas .
Eighteen errors were located , and then the director asked each individual to vote whether or not they felt that this manager had made the particular errors .
They were asked to vote `` true '' if they thought they had seen him make the error , `` false '' if they thought he had not ; ;
and `` cannot say '' if they were not certain .
The manager sat behind the group so he could see and count the hands that went up , and the director wrote the numbers on the blackboard .
No comments were made during the voting .
The results looked as follows : Af .
The first eight of these eighteen statements , which received at least one-half of the votes , were duplicated to form an analysis checklist for the particular manager , and when this particular manager roleplayed in other situations , the members checked any items that appeared .
To prevent the manager from deliberately controlling himself only during the sessions , they were rather lengthy ( about twenty minutes ) , the situations were imperfectly described to the manager so that he would not know what to expect , new antagonists were brought on the scene unexpectedly , and the antagonists were instructed to deliberately behave in such ways as to upset the manager and get him to operate in a manner for which he had been previously criticized .
After every session , the check marks were totaled up and graphed , and in this way the supervisor's progress was charted .
Summary
In life we learn to play our roles and we `` freeze '' into patterns which become so habitual that we are not really aware of what we do .
We can see others more clearly than we can see ourselves , and others can see us better than we see ourselves .
To learn what we do is the first step for improvement .
To accept the validity of the judgments of others is the second step .
To want to change is the third step .
To practice new procedures under guided supervision and with constant feedback is the fourth step .
To use these new ways in daily life is the last step .
Roleplaying used for analysis follows these general steps leading to training .
When an evaluative situation is set up , and no concern is with the details that lead to an over-all estimate , we say that roleplaying is used for evaluation .
Observers can see a person engaged in spontaneous behavior , and watch him operating in a totalistic fashion .
This behavior is more `` veridical '' -- or true -- than other testing behavior for some types of evaluation , and so can give quick and accurate estimates of complex functioning .
While roleplaying for testing is not too well understood at the present time , it represents one of the major uses of this procedure .
Chapter 10 , spontaneity training
the objective of this chapter is to clarify the distinctions between spontaneity theory and other training concepts .
In addition , the basic approach utilized in applying roleplaying will be reviewed .
The goal will be to provide the reader with an integrated rationale to aid him in applying roleplaying techniques in this unique training area .
The reasons for extracting this particular roleplaying application from the previous discussion of training are twofold .
1 .
Spontaneity training theory is unique and relatively new .
It is not easy for the therapist to discern when , in the patient's communicating , an introject has appeared and is holding sway .
One learns to become alert to changes in his vocal tone -- to his voice's suddenly shifting to a quality not like his usual one , a quality which sounds somehow artificial or , in some instances , parrot-like .
The content of his words may lapse back into monotonous repetition , as if a phonograph needle were stuck in one groove ; ;
only seldom is it so simple as to be a matter of his obviously parroting some timeworn axiom , common to our culture , which he has evidently heard , over and over , from a parent until he experiences it as part of him .
One hebephrenic woman often became submerged in what felt to me like a somehow phony experience of pseudo-emotion , during which , despite her wracking sobs and streaming cheeks , I felt only a cold annoyance with her .
Eventually such incidents became more sporadic , and more sharply demarcated from her day-after-day behavior , and in one particular session , after several minutes of such behavior -- which , as usual , went on without any accompanying words from her -- she asked , eagerly , `` Did you see Granny '' ? ?
At first I did not know what she meant ; ;
I thought she must be seeing me as some one who had just come from seeing her grandmother , in their distant home-city .
Then I realized that she had been deliberately showing me , this time , what Granny was like ; ;
and when I replied in this spirit , she corroborated my hunch .
At another phase in the therapy , when a pathogenic mother-introject began to emerge more and more upon the investigative scene , she muttered in a low but intense voice , to herself , `` I hate that woman inside me '' ! !
I could evoke no further elaboration from her about this ; ;
but a few seconds later she was standing directly across the room from me , looking me in the eyes and saying in a scathingly condemnatory tone , `` Your father despises you '' ! !
Again , I at first misconstrued this disconcertingly intense communication , and I quickly cast through my mind to account for her being able to speak , with such utter conviction , of an opinion held by my father , now several years deceased .
Then I replied , coldly , `` If you despise me , why don't you say so , directly '' ? ?
She looked confused at this , and I felt sure it had been a wrong response for me to make .
It then occurred to me to ask , `` Is that what that woman told you '' ? ?
She clearly agreed that this had been the case .
I realized , now , that she had been showing me , in what impressed me as being a very accurate way , something her mother had once said to her ; ;
it was as if she was showing me one of the reasons why she hated that woman inside her .
What had been an unmanageably powerful introject was now , despite its continuing charge of energy disconcerting to me , sufficiently within control of her ego that she could use it to show me what this introjected mother was like .
Earlier , this woman had been so filled with a chaotic variety of introjects that at times , when she was in her room alone , it would sound to a passerby as though there were several different persons in the room , as she would vocalize in various kinds of voice .
A somewhat less fragmented hebephrenic patient of mine , who used to often seclude herself in her room , often sounded through the closed door -- as I would find on passing by , between our sessions -- for all the world like two persons , a scolding mother and a defensive child .
Particularly hard for the therapist to grasp are those instances in which the patient is manifesting an introject traceable to something in the therapist , some aspect of the therapist of which the latter is himself only poorly aware , and the recognition of which , as a part of himself , he finds distinctly unwelcome .
I have found , time and again , that some bit of particularly annoying and intractable behavior on the part of a patient rests , in the final analysis , on this basis ; ;
and only when I can acknowledge this , to myself , as being indeed an aspect of my personality , does it cease to be a prominently troublesome aspect of the patient's behavior .
For example , one hebephrenic man used to annoy me , month after month , by saying , whenever I got up to leave and made my fairly steoreotyped comment that I would be seeing him on the following day , or whenever , `` You're welcome '' , in a notably condescending fashion -- as though it were his due for me to thank him for the privilege of spending the hour with him , and he were thus pointing up my failure to utter a humbly grateful , `` thank you '' to him at the end of each session .
Eventually it became clear to me , partly with the aid of another schizophrenic patient who could point out my condescension to me somewhat more directly , that this man , with his condescending , `` You're welcome '' , was very accurately personifying an element of obnoxious condescension which had been present in my own demeanor , over these months , on each of these occasions when I had bid him good-bye with the consoling note , each time , that the healing Christ would be stooping to dispense this succor to the poor sufferer again on the morrow .
Another patient , a paranoid woman , for many months infuriated not only me but the ward-personnel and her fellow patients by arrogantly behaving as though she owned the whole building , as though she were the only person in it whose needs were to be met .
This behavior on her part subsided only after I had come to see the uncomfortably close similarity between , on the one hand , her arranging the ventilation of the common living room to her own liking , or turning the television off or on without regard to the wishes of the others , and on the other hand , my own coming stolidly into her room despite her persistent and vociferous objections , bringing my big easy chair with me , usually shutting the windows of her room which she preferred to keep in a very cold state , and plunking myself down in my chair -- in short , behaving as if I owned her room .
4 .
Condensation .
Here a variety of meanings and emotions are concentrated , or reduced , in their communicative expression , to some comparatively simple-seeming verbal or nonverbal statement .
One finds , for example , that a terse and stereotyped verbal expression , seeming at first to be a mere hollow convention , reveals itself over the months of therapy as the vehicle for expressing the most varied and intense feelings , and the most unconventional of meanings .
More than anything , it is the therapist's intuitive sensing of these latent meanings in the stereotype which helps these meanings to become revealed , something like a spread-out deck of cards , on sporadic occasions over the passage of the patient's and his months of work together .
One cannot assume , of course , that all these accumulated meanings were inherent in the stereotype at the beginning of the therapy , or at any one time later on when the stereotype was uttered ; ;
probably it is correct to think of it as a matter of a well-grooved , stereotyped mode of expression -- and no , or but a few , other communicational grooves , as yet -- being there , available for the patient's use , as newly-emerging emotions and ideas well up in him over the course of months .
But it is true that the therapist can sense , when he hears this stereotype , that there are at this moment many emotional determinants at work in it , a blurred babel of indistinct voices which have yet to become clearly delineated from one another .
Sometimes it is not a verbal stereotype -- a `` How are you now '' ? ?
Or an `` I want to go home '' , or whatever -- but a nonverbal one which reveals itself , gradually , as the condensed expression of more than one latent meaning .
A hebephrenic man used to give a repetitious wave of his hand a number of times during his largely-silent hours with his therapist .
When the therapist came to feel on sufficiently sure ground with him to ask him , `` What is that , Bill -- hello or farewell '' ? ?
, the patient replied , `` Both , Dearie -- two in one '' .
Of all the possible forms of nonverbal expression , that which seems best to give release , and communicational expression , to complex and undifferentiated feelings is laughter .
It is no coincidence that the hebephrenic patient , the most severely dedifferentiated of all schizophrenic patients , shows , as one of his characteristic symptoms , laughter -- laughter which now makes one feel scorned or hated , which now makes one feel like weeping , or which now gives one a glimpse of the bleak and empty expanse of man's despair ; ;
and which , more often than all these , conveys a welter of feelings which could in no way be conveyed by any number of words , words which are so unlike this welter in being formed and discrete from one another .
To a much less full extent , the hebephrenic person's belching or flatus has a comparable communicative function ; ;
in working with these patients the therapist eventually gets to do some at least private mulling over of the possible meaning of a belch , or the passage of flatus , not only because he is reduced to this for lack of anything else to analyze , but also because he learns that even these animal-like sounds constitute forms of communication in which , from time to time , quite different things are being said , long before the patient can become sufficiently aware of these , as distinct feelings and concepts , to say them in words .
As I have been intimating , in the schizophrenic -- and perhaps also in the dreams of the neurotic ; ;
this is a question which I have no wish to take up -- condensation is a phenomenon in which one finds not a condensed expression of various feelings and ideas which are , at an unconscious level , well sorted out , but rather a condensed expression of feelings and ideas which , even in the unconscious , have yet to become well differentiated from one another .
Freeman , Cameron and McGhie , in their description of the disturbances of thinking found in chronic schizophrenic patients , say , in regard to condensation , that `` the lack of adequate discrimination between the self and the environment , and the objects contained therein in itself is the prototypical condensation '' .
In my experience , a great many of the patient's more puzzling verbal communications are so for the reason that concrete meanings have not become differentiated from figurative meanings in his subjective experience .
Thus he may be referring to some concrete thing , or incident , in his immediate environment by some symbolic-sounding , hyperbolic reference to transcendental events on the global scene .
Recently , for example , a paranoid woman's large-scale philosophizing , in the session , about the intrusive curiosity which has become , in her opinion , a deplorable characteristic of mid-twentieth-century human culture , developed itself , before the end of the session , into a suspicion that I was surreptitiously peeking at her partially exposed breast , as indeed I was .
Or , equally often , a concretistic-seeming , particularistic-seeming statement may consist , with its mundane exterior , in a form of poetry -- may be full of meaning and emotion when interpreted as a figurative expression : a metaphor , a smile , an allegory , or some other symbolic mode of speaking .
Of such hidden meanings the patient himself is , more often than not , entirely unaware .
His subjective experience may be a remarkably concretistic one .
One hebephrenic women confided to me , `` I live in a world of words '' , as if , to her , words were fully concrete objects ; ;
Burnham , in his excellent article ( 1955 ) concerning schizophrenic communication , includes mention of similar clinical material .
A borderline schizophrenic young man told me that to him the various theoretical concepts about which he had been expounding , in a most articulate fashion , during session after session with me , were like great cubes of almost tangibly solid matter up in the air above him ; ;
as he spoke I was reminded of the great bales of cargo which are swung , high in the air , from a docked steamship .
The many linguistic techniques for reducing the amount of dictionary information that have been proposed all organize the dictionary's contents around prefixes , stems , suffixes , etc. .
A significant reduction in the voume of store information is thus realized , especially for a highly inflected language such as Russian .
For English the reduction in size is less striking .
This approach requires that : ( 1 ) each text word be separated into smaller elements to establish a correspondence between the occurrence and dictionary entries , and ( 2 ) the information retrieved from several entries in the dictionary be synthesized into a description of the particular word .
The logical scheme used to accomplish the former influences the placement of information in the dictionary file .
Implementation of the latter requires storage of information needed only for synthesis .
We suggest the application of certain data-processing techniques as a solution to the problem .
But first , we must define two terms so that their meaning will be clearly understood : form -- any unique sequence of alphabetic characters that can appear in a language preceded and followed by a space ; ;
occurrence -- an instance of a form in text .
We propose a method for selecting only dictionary information required by the text being translated and a means for passing the information directly to the occurrences in text .
We accomplish this by compiling a list of text forms as text is read by the computer .
A random-storage scheme , based on the spelling of forms , provides an economical way to compile this text-form list .
Dictionary forms found to match forms in the text list are marked .
A location in the computer store is also named for each marked form ; ;
dictionary information about the form stored at this location can be retrieved directly by occurrences of the form in text .
Finally , information is retrieved from the dictionary as required by stages of the translation process -- the grammatical description for sentence-structure determination , equivalent-choice information for semantic analysis , and target-language equivalents for output construction .
The dictionary is a form dictionary , at least in the sense that complete forms are used as the basis for matching text occurrences with dictionary entries .
Also , the dictionary is divided into at least two parts : the list of dictionary forms and the file of information that pertains to these forms .
A more detailed description of dictionary operations -- text lookup and dictionary modification -- gives a clearer picture .
Text lookup , as we will describe it , consists of three steps .
The first is compiling a list of text forms , assigning an information cell to each , and replacing text occurrences with the information cell assigned to the form of each occurrence .
For this step the computer memory is separated into three regions : cells in the W-region are used for storage of the forms in the text-form list ; ;
cells in the X-region and Y region are reserved as information cells for text forms .
When an occurrence Af is isolated during text reading , a random memory address Af , the address of a cell in the X-region , is computed from the form of Af .
Let Af denote the form of Af .
If cell Af has not previously been assigned as the information cell of a form in the text-form list , it is now assigned as the information cell of Af .
The form itself is stored in the next available cells of the W-region , beginning in cell Af .
The address Af and the number of cells required to store the form are written in Af ; ;
the information cell Af is saved to represent the text occurrence .
Text reading continues with the next occurrence .
Let us assume that Af is identical to the form of an occurrence Af which preceded Af in the text .
When this situation exists , the address Af will equal Af which was produced from Af .
If Af was assigned as the information cell for Af , the routine can detect that Af is identical to Af by comparing Af with the form stored at location Af .
The address Af is stored in the cell Af .
When , as in this case , the two forms match , the address Af is saved to represent the occurrence Af .
Text reading continues with the next occurrence .
A third situation is possible .
The formula for computing random addresses from the form of each occurrence will not give a distinct address for each distinct form .
Thus , when more than one distinct form leads to a particular cell in the X-region , a chain of information cells must be created to accommodate the forms , one cell in the chain for each form .
If Af leads to an address Af that is equal to the address computed from Af , even though Af does not match Af , the chain of information cells is extended from Af by storing the address of the next available cell in the Y-region , Af , in Af .
The cell Af becomes the second information cell in the chain and is assigned as the information cell of Af .
A third cell can be added by storing the address of another Y-cell in Af ; ;
similarly , as many cells are added as are required .
Each information cell in the chain contains the address of the Y-cell where the form to which it is assigned is stored .
Each cell except the last in the chain also contains the address of the Y-cell that is the next element of the chain ; ;
the absence of such a link in the last cell indicates the end of the chain .
Hence , when the address Af is computed from Af , the cell Af and all Y-cells in its chain must be inspected to determine whether Af is already in the form list or whether it should be added to the form list and the chain .
When the information cell for Af has been determined , it is saved as a representation of Af .
Text reading continues with the next occurrence .
Text reading is terminated when a pre-determined number of forms have been stored in the text-form list .
This initiates the second step of glossary lookup -- connecting the information cell of forms in the text-form list to dictionary forms .
Each form represented by the dictionary is looked up in the text-form list .
Each time a dictionary form matches a text form , the information cell of the matching text form is saved .
The number of dictionary forms skipped since the last one matched is also saved .
These two pieces of information for each dictionary form that is matched by a text form constitute the table of dictionary usage .
If each text form is marked when matched with a dictionary form , the text forms not contained in the dictionary can be identified when all dictionary forms have been read .
The appropriate action for handling these forms can be taken at that time .
Each dictionary form is looked up in the text-form list by the same method used to look up a new text occurrence in the form list during text reading .
A random address Af that lies within the X-region of memory mentioned earlier is computed from the i-th dictionary form .
If cell Af is an information cell , it and any information cells in the Y-region that have been linked to Af each contain an address in the W-region where a potentially matching form is stored .
The dictionary form is compared with each of these text forms .
When a match is found , an entry is made in the table of dictionary usage .
If cell Af is not an information cell we conclude that the i-th dictionary form is not in the text list .
These two steps essentially complete the lookup operation .
The final step merely uses the table of dictionary usage to select the dictionary information that pertains to each form matched in the text-form list , and uses the list of information cells recorded in text order to attach the appropriate information to each occurrence in text .
The list of text forms in the W-region of memory and the contents of the information cells in the X and Y-regions are no longer required .
Only the assignment of the information cells is important .
The first stage of translation after glossary lookup is structural analysis of the input text .
The grammatical description of each occurrence in the text must be retrieved from the dictionary to permit such an analysis .
A description of this process will serve to illustrate how any type of information can be retrieved from the dictionary and attached to each text occurrence .
The grammatical descriptions of all forms in the dictionary are recorded in a separate part of the dictionary file .
The order is identical to the ordering of the forms they describe .
When entries are being retrieved from this file , the table of dictionary usage indicates which entries to skip and which entries to store in the computer .
This selection-rejection process takes place as the file is read .
Each entry that is selected for storage is written into the next available cells of the Aj .
The address of the first cell and the number of cells used is written in the information cell for the form .
( The address of the information cell is also supplied by the table of dictionary usage .
) When the complete file has been read , the grammatical descriptions for all text forms found in the dictionary have been stored in the W-region ; ;
the information cell assigned to each text form contains the address of the grammatical description of the form it represents .
Hence , the description of each text occurrence can be retrieved by reading the list of text-ordered information-cell addresses and outputting the description indicated by the information cell for each occurrence .
The only requirements on dictionary information made by the text-lookup operation are that each form represented by the dictionary be available for lookup in the text-form list and that information for each form be available in a sequence identical with the sequence of the forms .
This leaves the ordering of entries variable .
( Here an entry is a form plus the information that pertains to it .
)
Two very useful ways for modifying a form-dictionary are the addition to the dictionary of complete paradigms rather than single forms and the application of a single change to more than one dictionary form .
The former is intended to decrease the amount of work necessary to extend dictionary coverage .
The latter is useful for modifying information about some or all forms of a word , hence reducing the work required to improve dictionary contents .
Applying the techniques developed at Harvard for generating a paradigm from a representative form and its classification , we can add all forms of a word to the dictionary at once .
An extension of the principle would permit entering a grammatical description of each form .
Equivalents could be assigned to the paradigm either at the time it is added to the dictionary or after the word has been studied in context .
Thus , one can think of a dictionary entry as a word rather than a form .
If all forms of a paradigm are grouped together within the dictionary , a considerable reduction in the amount of information required is possible .
For example , the inflected forms of a word can be represented , insofar as regular inflection allows , by a stem and a set of endings to be attached .
( Indeed , the set of endings can be replaced by the name of a set of endings .
) The full forms can be derived from such information just prior to the lookup of the form in the text-form list .
Similarly , if the equivalents for the forms of a word do not vary , the equivalents need be entered only once with an indication that they apply to each form .
The dictionary system is in no way dependent upon such summarization or designed around it .
When irregularity and variation prevent summarizing , information is written in complete detail .
Entries are summarized only when by doing so the amount of information retained in the dictionary is reduced and the time required for dictionary operations is decreased .
In sentences , patterns of stress are determined by complex combinations of influences that can only be suggested here .
The tendency is toward putting dominant stress at the end .
There is a parallel to this tendency in the assignment of time in long-known hymn tunes .
Thus the first lines of one of Charles Wesley's hymns are as follows .
`` A charge to keep I have , A God to glorify '' .
In the tune to which this hymn is most often sung , `` Boylston '' , the syllables have and fy , ending their lines , have twice the time any other syllables have .
Dominant stress is of course more than extended duration , and normally centers on syllables that would have primary stress or phrase stress if the words or longer units they are parts of were spoken alone : a dominant stress given to glorify would normally center on its first syllable rather than its last .
But the parallel is significant .
When the answer to what's wrong now ? ?
Is Bill's broken a chair , dominant stress will usually be on the complement a chair .
From the point of view of syntactic analysis the head word in the statement is the predicator has broken , and from the point of view of meaning it would seem that the trouble centers in the breaking ; ;
but dominant stress will be assigned to broken only in rather exceptional versions of the sentence .
In I know one thing dominant stress will usually be on the complement one thing ; ;
in one thing I know it will usually be on the predicator know .
In small-town people are very friendly dominant stress will generally be on the complement very friendly ; ;
in the double sentence the smaller the town , the friendlier the people it will generally be on the subjects the town and the people .
In what's a linguist ? ?
dominant stress will generally be on the subject a linguist ; ;
in who's a linguist ? it will generally be on the complement a linguist .
Dominant stress is on her luggage both in that's her luggage , where her luggage is the complement , and in there's her luggage , where it is the subject .
Adverbial second complements , however , are likely not to have dominant stress when they terminate sentences .
If the answer to what was that noise ? ?
Is George put the cat out , dominant stress will ordinarily be on the first complement , the cat , not the second complement out .
Final adjuncts may or may not have dominant stress .
If the answer to what was that noise ? ?
Is George reads the news emotionally , dominant stress may or may not be on the adjunct emotionally .
When prepositional complements are divided as in what are you looking for ? ?
They are likely to lose dominant stress .
Context is of extreme importance .
What is new in the context is likely to be made more prominent than what is not .
Thus in a context in which there has been discussion of snow but mention of local conditions is new , dominant stress will probably be on here in it rarely snows here , but in a context in which there has been discussion of local weather but no mention of snow , dominant stress will probably be on snows .
The personal pronouns and substitute one are normally unstressed because they refer to what is prominent in the immediate context .
In I'll go with George dominant stress is probably on George ; ;
but if George has just been mentioned prominently ( and the trip to be made has been under discussion ) , what is said is probably I'll go with him , and dominant stress is probably on the preposition with .
When a gesture accompanies who's he ? ?
the personal pronoun has dominant stress because `` he '' has not been mentioned previously .
If both George and a piece of information George does not have are prominent in the context , but the idea of telling George is new , then dominant stress will probably be on tell in why not tell George ? ?
But when what is new in a particular context is also fairly obvious , there is normally only light stress or no stress at all .
Thus the unstressed it of it rarely snows here gets its significance from its use with snows : nothing can snow snow but `` it '' .
In there aren't many young people in the neighborhood the modifier young takes dominant stress away from its head people : the fact that the young creatures of interest are people seems rather obvious .
If women replaced people , it would normally have dominant stress .
In I have things to do the word things makes little real contribution to meaning and has weaker stress than do .
If work is substituted for things ( with more exact contribution to meaning ) , it will have dominant stress .
In I know one thing dominant stress is likely to go to one rather than to semantically pale thing .
In I knew you when you were a child , and you were pretty then dominant stress on then implies that the young woman spoken to is still pretty .
Dominant stress on pretty would be almost insulting here .
In the written language then can be underlined or italicized to guide the reader here , but much of the time the written language simply depends on the reader's alertness , and a careless reader will have to back up and reread .
Often , dominant stress simply indicates a centering of attention or emotion .
Thus in it's incredible what that boy can eat dominant stress is likely to be on incredible , and eat will have strong stress also .
In she has it in for George dominant stress will ordinarily be on in , where the notion of stored-up antipathy seems to center .
In we're painting at our garage strong stress on at indicates that the job being done is not real painting but simply an effort at painting .
Where there is comparison or contrast , dominant stresses normally operate to center attention .
Thus in his friends are stranger than his sisters' strong stresses are normal for his and sisters' , but in his friends are stranger than his sisters strong stresses are normal for friends and sisters .
In he's hurting himself more than he's hurting you both himself and you have stronger stress than they would ordinarily have if there were no contrast .
In is she Chinese or Japanese ? ?
The desire to contrast the first parts of words which are alike in their last components produces an exceptional disregard of the normal patterns of stress of Chinese and Japanese .
Sometimes strong stress serves to focus an important secondary relationship .
Thus in Mary wrote an account of the trip first strong stress on Mary marks Mary as the first in a series of people who wrote accounts of the trip , strong stress on wrote marks the writing as the first of a series of actions of Mary's concerned with an account of her trip ( about which she may later have made speeches , for example ) , and strong stress on trip makes the trip the first of a series of subjects about which Mary wrote accounts .
In hunger stimulates man too the situation is very similar .
Strong stress on hunger treats hunger as an additional stimulus , strong stress on stimulates treats stimulation as an additional effect of hunger , strong stress on man treats man as an additional creature who responds to the stimulation of hunger .
Here again , in the written language it is possible to help the reader get his stresses right by using underlining or italics , but much of the time there is simply reliance on his understanding in the light of context .
When a word represents a larger construction of which it is the only expressed part , it normally has more stress than it would have in fully expressed construction .
Thus when yes , I have is the response to have you finished reading the paper ? ?
The stress on have , which here represents have finished reading the paper , is quite strong .
In Mack's the leader at camp , but Jack is here the is of the second main declarative represents is the leader and therefore has stress .
Mack's the leader at camp , but Jack's here , with this is deprived of stress , makes here the complement in the clause .
In of all the suggestions that were made , his was the silliest the possessive his represents his suggestion and is stressed .
When go represents itself and a complement ( being equivalent , say , to go to Martinique ) in which boat did Jack go on ? ?
It has strong stress ; ;
when it represents only itself and on which is its complement ( so that go on is semantically equivalent to board ) , on has stronger stress than go does .
Omission of a subordinator pronoun , however , does not result in an increase in stress on a prepositional adverb for which the subordinator pronoun would be object .
Thus to has light stress both in that was the conclusion that I came to and in that was the conclusion I came to .
But when to represents to consciousness in that was the moment that I came to , and similarly in that was the moment I came to , there is much stronger stress on to .
In I wanted to tell him , but I was afraid to the final to is lightly stressed because it represents to tell him .
In to tell him , of course , to is normally unstressed .
When I have instructions to leave is equivalent in meaning to I have instructions that I am to leave this place , dominant stress is ordinarily on leave .
When the same sequence is equivalent in meaning to I have instructions which I am to leave , dominant stress is ordinarily on instructions .
It is clear that patterns of stress sometimes show construction unambiguously in the spoken language where without the help of context it would be ambiguous in the written .
Other examples follow .
`` I'll come by Tuesday .
I can't be happy long without drinking water '' .
In the first of these sentences if by is the complement of come and Tuesday is an adjunct of time equivalent to on Tuesday , there will be strong stress on by in the spoken language ; ;
but if a complement for come is implied and by Tuesday is a prepositional unit used as an adjunct , by will be unstressed or lightly stressed at most .
In the second sentence if drinking water is a gerundial clause and without drinking water is roughly equivalent in meaning to unless I drink water , there will be stronger stress on water than on drinking ; ;
but if drinking is a gerundial noun modifying water and without drinking water is equivalent to without water for drinking , there will be stronger stress on drinking than on water .
But the use of stress in comparison and contrast , for example , can undermine distinctions such as these .
And patterns of stress are not always unambiguous by any means .
In the Steiners have busy lives without visiting relatives only context can indicate whether visiting relatives is equivalent in meaning to paying visits to relatives or to relatives who are visiting them , and in I looked up the number and I looked up the chimney only the meanings of number and chimney make it clear that up is syntactically a second complement in the first sentence and a preposition followed by its object in the second .
Syllabification .
-- Syllables are linguistic units centering in peaks which are usually vocalic but , as has been noted , are consonantal under certain circumstances , and which may or may not be combined with preceding and/or following consonants or combinations of consonants .
Syllables are genuine units , but division of words and sentences into them presents great difficulties .
Sometimes even the number of syllables is not clear .
Doubt on this point is strongest before /l/ and AAb/ or /r/ .
From the point of view of word formation real might be expected to have two syllables .
Historically re is the formative that is employed also in republic , and al is the common suffix .
When ity is added , real clearly has two syllables .
But there is every reason to regard deal as a monosyllable , and because of the fact that /l/ commonly has the quality of AAb/ when it follows vowel sounds , deal seems to be a perfectly satisfactory rhyme with deal .
It is obvious enough that linguists in general have been less successful in coping with tone systems than with consonants or vowels .
No single explanation is adequate to account for this .
Improvement , however , is urgent , and at least three things will be needed .
The first is a wide-ranging sample of successful tonal analyses .
Even beginning students in linguistics are made familiar with an appreciable variety of consonant systems , both in their general outlines and in many specific details .
An advanced student has read a considerable number of descriptions of consonantal systems , including some of the more unusual types .
By contrast , even experienced linguists commonly know no more of the range of possibilities in tone systems than the over-simple distinction between register and contour languages .
This limited familiarity with the possible phenomena has severely hampered work with tone .
Tone analysis will continue to be difficult and unsatisfactory until a more representative selection of systems is familar to every practicing field linguist .
Papers like these four , if widely read , will contribute importantly to improvement of our analytic work .
The second need is better field techniques .
The great majority of present-day linguists fall into one or more of a number of overlapping types : those who are convinced that tone cannot be analysed , those who are personally scared of tone and tone languages generally , those who are convinced that tone is merely an unnecessary marginal feature in those languages where it occurs , those who have no idea how to proceed with tone analysis , those who take a simplistic view of the whole matter .
The result has been neglect , fumbling efforts , or superficial treatment .
As these maladies overlap , so must the cure .
Analyses such as these four will simultaneously combat the assumptions that tone is impossible and that it is simple .
They will give suggestions that can be worked up into field procedures .
Good field techniques will not only equip linguists for better work , but also help them overcome negative attitudes .
Actually , none of these papers says much directly about field techniques .
But it is worth pondering that very little has been published on any phase of field techniques in linguistics .
These things have been disseminated by other means , but always in the wake of extensive publication of analytic results .
The third need is for better theory .
We should expect that general phonologic theory should be as adequate for tone as for consonants and vowels , but it has not been .
This can only be for one of two reasons : either the two are quite different and will require totally different theory ( and hence techniques ) , or our existing theories are insufficiently general .
If , as I suspect , the problem is largely of the second sort , then development of a theory better able to handle tone will result automatically in better theory for all phonologic subsystems .
One issue that must be faced is the relative difficulty of analysis of different phonologic subsystems .
Since tone systems typically comprise fewer units than either consonant or vowel systems , we might expect that they would be the easiest part of a phonologic analysis .
Actual practice does not often work out this way .
Tone systems are certainly more complex than the number of units would suggest , and often analytically more difficult than much larger consonantal systems .
Welmers has suggested one explanation .
Tone languages use for linguistic contrasts speech parameters which also function heavily in nonlinguistic use .
This may both divert the attention of the uninitiate and cause confusion for the more knowledgeable .
The problem is to disentangle the linguistic features of pitch from the co-occurring nonlinguistic features .
Of course , something of the same sort occurs with other sectors of the phonology : consonantal articulations have both a linguistic and an individual component .
But in general the individual variation is a small thing added onto basic linguistic features of greater magnitude .
With tone , individual differences may be greater than the linguistic contrasts which are superimposed on them .
Pitch differences from one speaker to another , or from one emotional state to another , may far exceed the small differences between tones .
However , any such suggestion accounts for only some of the difficulties in hearing tone , or in developing a realistic attitude about tone , but not for the analytic difficulties that occur even when tone is meticulously recorded .
A second explanation is suggested by the material described in Rowlands' paper .
Tone and intonation often become seriously intermeshed .
Neither can be adequately systematized until we are able to separate the two and assign the observed phenomena individually to one or the other .
Other pairs of phonologic subsystems also interact or overlap in this way ; ;
for example , duration sometimes figures in both the vowel system and the intonation .
Some phonetic features , for example glottal catch or murmur , are sometimes to be assigned to segmental phonemics and sometimes to accentual systems .
But no other two phonologic systems are as difficult to disentangle as are tone and intonation in some languages .
This explanation of tone difficulties , however , does not apply in all languages .
In some ( the Ewe type mentioned above ) interaction of tone and intonation is restricted to the ends of intonation spans .
In many of the syllables , intonation can be safely ignored , and much of the tonal analysis can be done without any study of intonation .
Still , even in such languages tone analysis has not been as simple as one might expect .
A third explanation is suggested by Richardson's analysis of Sukuma tone .
There we see a basically simple phonemic system enmeshed in a very complex and puzzling morphophonemic system .
While the phonemes can be very easily stated , no one is likely to be satisfied with the statement until phonemic occurrences can be related in some way to morphemic units , i.e. until the morphophonemics is worked out , or at least far enough that it seems reasonable to expect success .
In the `` typical tone language '' , tonal morphophonemics is of the same order of complexity as consonantal morphophonemics .
The phonemic systems which must support these morphophonemic systems , however , are very different .
The inventory of tones is much smaller , and commonly the contrasts range along one single dimension , pitch level .
Consonantal systems are not merely larger , they are multidimensional .
Morphophonemic rules may be thought of as joining certain points in the system .
The possibilities in the consonantal system are very numerous , and only a small portion of them are actually used .
Phonemes connected by a morphophonemic rule commonly show a good bit of phonetic similarity , possible because of the several dimensions of contrast in the system .
Tonal morphophonemics , in a common case , can do nothing but either raise or lower the tone .
The possibilities are few , and the total number of rules may be considerably greater .
Often , therefore , there are a number of rules having the same effect , and commonly other sets of rules as well , having the opposite effect .
Tonal morphophonemics is much more confusing to the beginning analyst than consonantal morphophonemics , even when the total number of rules is no greater .
The difficulty of analysis of any subsystem in the phonology is an inverse function of the size -- smaller systems are more troublesome -- for any given degree of morphophonemic complexity .
This hypothesis will account for a large part of the difficulties of tonal analysis , as well as the fact that vowel systems are often more puzzling than consonantal systems .
The statement of the system is a different matter .
Smaller systems can of course be stated much more succinctly .
A phonemic system can be stated without reference to morphophonemics , but it cannot always be found without morphophonemics .
And the more complex the morphophonemic system is in relation to the phonemic base , the less easily a phonemic system will be analysed without close attention to the morphophonemics -- at least , the less satisfying will a phonemic statement be if it cannot be related through morphophonemic rules to grammatically meaningful structures .
The design of orthographies has received much less attention from linguists than the problem deserves .
There has been a tendency on the part of many American linguists to assume that a phonemic transcription will automatically be the best possible orthography and that the only real problem will then be the social one of securing acceptance .
This seems naive .
Most others have been content to give only the most general attention to the broadest and most obvious features of the phonology when designing orthographies .
Apparently the feeling is that anything more would be involvement in technical abstrusenesses of possible pedantic interest but of no visible significance in practical affairs .
The result of this attitude has been the domination of many orthography conferences by such considerations as typographic ' esthetics ' , which usually turns out to be nothing more than certain prejudices carried over from European languages .
Many of the suggested systems seem to have only the most tenuous relationship to the language structures that they purport to represent .
Linguists have not always been more enlightened than `` practical people '' and sometimes have insisted on incredibly trivial points while neglecting things of much greater significance .
As a result , many people have been confirmed in their conviction that orthography design is not an activity to which experts can contribute anything but confusion .
A. E. Sharp , in Vowel-Length And Syllabicity In Kikuyu , examines one set of related orthographic questions and its phonologic background in detail .
His objective is merely to determine `` what distinctions of length and syllabicity it may be desirable to make explicit in a Kikuyu orthography '' ( 59 ) .
To do so , he finds it necessary to examine the relevant parts of the phonology thoroughly and in detail .
In the process , he develops some very significant observations about problems of a sort that are often difficult .
A few of his examples are of very great interest , and the whole discussion of some importance for theory .
His orthographic recommendations are no simplistic acceptance of phonemics on the one hand or of superficiality on the other .
Rather he weighs each phonologic fact in the light of its orthographic usefulness .
He concludes that some changes can be made in the current orthography which will appreciably improve its usefulness , but hesitates to suggest precise graphic devices to effect these changes .
I hope his suggestions are given the consideration they deserve in Kikuyu circles .
This , however , will not exhaust their practical usefulness , as they rather clearly indicate what thorough phonologic investigation can contribute to orthography design .
We need many more studies of this sort if the design of written languages is to be put on a sound basis .
One other paper deals with a phonologic problem : Vowel Harmony In Igbo , by J. Carnochan .
This restates the already widely known facts in terms of prosodies .
As a restatement it makes only a small contribution to knowledge of Igbo .
But it would seem more intended as a tract advocating the prosodic theory than a paper directed to the specific problems of Igbo phonology .
The paper has a certain value as a comparatively easy introduction to this approach , particularly since it treats a fairly simple and straightforward phenomenon where it is possible to compare it with a more traditional ( though not structural ) statement .
It does show one feature of the system that has not been previously described .
But it does not , as it claims , demonstrate that this could not be treated by traditional methods .
It seems to me that it rather easily can .
Five of the papers deal with grammatical problems .
On the whole they maintain much the same high standard , but they are much more difficult to discuss in detail because of their wider variety of subject matter .
My comments must be briefer than the papers deserve .
W. H. Whiteley writes on The Verbal Radical In Iraqw .
This must be considered primarily an amendment and supplement to his early A Short Description Of Item-Categories In Iraqw .
It exhibits much the same descriptive technique and is open to much the same criticisms .
The treatment seems unnecessarily loose-jointed and complex , largely because the method is lax and the analysis seems never to be pushed to a satisfactory or even a consistent stopping-point .
There are more stems per item in Athabascan , which expresses the fact that the Athabascan languages have undergone somewhat more change in diverging from proto-Athabascan than the Yokuts languages from proto-Yokuts .
This may be because the Athabascan divergence began earlier ; ;
or again because the Athabascan languages spread over a very much larger territory ( including three wholly separated areas ) ; ;
or both .
The differentiation , however , is not very much greater , as shown by the fact that Athabascan shows 3.46 stems per meaning slot as against 2.75 for Yokuts , with a slightly greater number of languages represented in our sample : 24 as against 21 .
( On deduction of one-eighth from 3.46 , the stem / item rate becomes 3.03 against 2.75 in equivalent number of languages .
) These general facts are mentioned to make clear that the total situation in the two families is similar enough to warrant comparison .
The greatest difference in the two sets of figures is due to differences in the two sets of lists used .
These differences in turn result from the fact that my Yokuts vocabularies were built up of terms selected mainly to insure unambiguity of English meaning between illiterate informants and myself , within a compact and uniform territorial area , but that Hoijer's vocabulary is based on Swadesh's second glottochronological list which aims at eliminating all items which might be culturally or geographically determined .
Swadesh in short was trying to develop a basic list that was universal ; ;
I , one that was specifically adapted to the San Joaquin Valley .
The result is that I included 70 animal names , but Swadesh only 4 ; ;
and somewhat similarly for plants , 16 as against 4 .
Swadesh , and therefore Hoijer , felt compelled to omit all terms denoting species or even genera ( ox , vulture , salmon , yellow pine , manzanita ) ; ;
their classes of animal and plant terms are restricted to generalizations or recurrent parts ( fish , bird , tree , grass , horn , tail , bark , root ) .
The groups are therefore really non-comparable in content as well as in size .
Other classes are included only by myself ( interrogatives , adverbs ) or only by Swadesh and Hoijer ( pronouns , demonstratives ) .
What we have left as reasonably comparable are four classes : ( 1 ) body parts and products , which with a proportionally nearly even representation ( 51 terms out of 253 , 25 out of 100 ) come out with nearly even ratios ; ;
2.6 and 2.7 ; ;
( 2 ) Nature ( 29 terms against 17 ) , ratios 3.3 versus 4.1 ; ;
( 3 ) adjectives ( 16 , 15 terms ) , ratios 3.9 versus 4.7 ; ;
( 4 ) verbs ( 9 , 22 terms ) , ratios 4.0 versus 3.4 .
It will be seen that where the scope is similar , the Athabascan ratios come out somewhat higher ( as indeed they ought to with a total ratio of 2.8 as against 3.5 or 4 : 5 ) except for verbs , where alone the Athabascan ratio is lower .
This exception may be connected with Hoijer's use of a much higher percentage of verbs : 22% of his total list as against 3.5% in mine .
Or the exception may be due to a particular durability peculiar to the Athabascan verb .
More word class ratios determined in more languages will no doubt ultimately answer the question .
5 .
If word classes differ in their resistance or liability to stem replacement within meaning slot , it is conceivable that individual meanings also differ with fair consistence trans-lingually .
Hoijer's Athabascan and my Yokuts share 71 identical meanings ( with allowance for several near-synonyms like stomach-belly , big-large , long-far , many-much , die-dead , say-speak ) .
For Yokuts , I tabulated these 71 items in five columns , according as they were expressed by 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , and more than 4 stems .
The totals for these five categories are not too uneven , namely 20 , 15 , 11 , 16 , 9 respectively .
For Athabascan , with a greater range of stems , the first two of five corresponding columns were identical , 1 and 2 stems ; ;
the three others had to be spread somewhat , and are headed respectively Af ; ;
Af ; ;
and Af stems .
While the particular limits of these groupings may seem artificially arbitrary , they do fairly express a corresponding grouping of more variable material , and they eventuate also in five classes , along a similar scale , containing approximately equal numbers of cases , namely 19 , 14 , 15 , 11 , 12 in Athabascan .
When now we count the frequency of the 71 items in the two language families appearing in the same column or grade , or one column or grade apart , or two or three or four , we find these differences : Af
.
This distribution can be summarized by averaging the distance in grades apart : Af ; ;
which , divided by Af gives a mean of 1.07 grades apart .
If the distribution of the 71 items were wholly concordant in the two families , the distance would of course be 0 .
If it were wholly random and unrelated , it would be 2.0 , assuming the five classes were equal in n , which approximately they are .
The actual mean of 1.07 being about halfway between 0 of complete correlation and 2.0 of no correlation , it is evident that there is a pretty fair degree of similarity in the behavior even of particular individual items of meaning as regards long-term stem displacement .
6 .
In 1960 , David D. Thomas published Basic Vocabulary In some Mon-Khmer Languages ( AL 2 , No. 3 , pp. 7 - 11 ) , which compares 8 Mon-Khmer languages with the I-E language data on which Swadesh based the revised retention rate ( Af ) in place of original ( Af ) , and his revised 100 word basic glottochronological list in Towards Greater Accuracy ( IJAL 21 : :
121 - 137 ) .
Thomas' findings are , first , `` that the individual items vary greatly and unpredictably in their persistence '' ; ;
but , second , `` that the semantic groups are surprisingly unvarying in their average persistence '' ( as between M-K and I-E ) .
His first conclusion , on behavior of individual items , is negative , whereas mine ( on Ath. and Yok. ) was partially positive .
His second conclusion , on semantic word classes , agrees with mine .
This second conclusion , independently arrived at by independent study of material from two pairs of language families as different and remote from one another as these four are , cannot be ignored .
Thomas also presents a simple equation for deriving an index of persistence , which weights not only the number of stems ( ' roots ' ) per meaning , but their relative frequency .
Thus his persistence values for some stem frequencies per meaning are : stem identical in 8 languages , 100% ; ;
stem frequencies 7 and 1 , 86% ; ;
stem frequencies 4 and 4 , 64% ; ;
stem frequencies 4 , 3 , and 1 , 57% .
His formula will have to be weighed , may be altered or improved , and it should be tested on additional bodies of material .
But consideration of the frequency of stems per constant meaning seems to be established as having significance in comparative situations with diachronic and classificatory relevance ; ;
and Gleason presumably is on the way with a further contribution in this area .
As to relative frequencies of competing roots ( 7 - 1 vs. 4 - 4 , etc. ) , Thomas with his ' weighting ' seems to be the first to have considered the significance this might have .
The problem needs further exploration .
I was at least conscious of the distinction in my full Yokuts presentation that awaits publication , in which , in listing ' Two-Stem Meanings ' , I set off by asterisks those forms in which N of stem B was Af of stem A/3 , the unasterisked ones standing for Af ; ;
or under ' Four Stems ' , I set off by asterisks cases where the combined N of stems Af was Af .
7 .
These findings , and others which will in time be developed , will affect the method of glottochronological inquiry .
If adjectival meanings show relatively low retentiveness of stems , as I am confident will prove to be the case in most languages of the world , why should our basic lists include 15 per cent of these unstable forms , but only 8 per cent of animals and plants which replace much more slowly ? ?
Had Hoijer substituted for his 15 adjectival slots 15 good animal and plant items , his rate of stem replacement would have been lower and the age of Athabascan language separation smaller .
And irrespective of the outcome in centuries elapsed since splitting , calculations obviously carry more concordant and comparable meaning if they deal with the most stable units than with variously unstable ones .
It is evident that Swadesh has not only had much experience with basic vocabulary in many languages but has acquired great tact and feeling for the expectable behavior of lexical items .
Why then this urge to include unstable items in his basic list ? ?
It is the urge to obtain a list as free of geographical and cultural conditioning as possible .
And why that insistence ? ?
It is the hope of attaining a list of items of universal occurrence .
But it is becoming increasingly evident that such a hope is a snare .
Not that such a list cannot be constructed ; ;
but the nearer it comes to attaining universality , the less significant will it be linguistically .
Its terms will tend to be labile or vague , and they will fit actual languages more and more badly .
The practical operational problem of lexicostatistics is the establishment of a basic list of items of meaning against which the particular forms or terms of languages can be matched as the medium of comparison .
The most important quality of the meanings is that they should be as definable as possible .
In proportion as meanings are concrete , we can better rely on their being insulated and distinctive .
An elephant or a fox or a swan or a cocopalm or a banana possess in unusually high degree this quality of obvious , common-sense , indubitable identity , as do an eye or tooth or nail .
They isolate out easily , naturally , and unambiguously from the continuum of nature and existence ; ;
and they should be given priority in the basic list as long as they continue to show these qualities .
With the universal list as his weapon , Swadesh has extended his march of conquest farther and farther into the past , eight , ten , twelve millennia back .
And he has proclaimed greater or less affiliation between all Western hemisphere languages .
Some of this may prove to be true , or even considerable of it , whether by genetic ramification or by diffusion and coalescence .
But the farther out he moves , the thinner will be his hold on conclusive evidence , and the larger the speculative component in his inferences .
He has traversed provinces and kingdoms , but he has not consolidated them behind him , nor does he control them .
He has announced results on Hokan , Penutian , Uto-Aztecan , and almost all other American families and phyla , and has diagrammed their degree of interrelation ; ;
but he has not worked out by lexicostatistics one comprehensively complete classification of even a single family other than Salish .
That is his privilege .
The remote , cloudy , possible has values of its own -- values of scope , stimulus , potential , and imagination .
But there is also a firm aspect to lexicostatistics : the aspect of learning the internal organization of obvious natural genetic groups of languages as well as their more remote and elusive external links ; ;
of classification first , with elapsed age merely a by-product ; ;
of acquiring evidential knowledge of what happened in Athabascan , in Yokuts , in Uto-Aztecan in the last few thousand years as well as forecasting what more anciently may have happened between them .
This involves step-by-step progress , and such will have to be the day-by-day work of lexicostatistics as a growing body of scientific inquiry .
If of the founders of glottochronology Swadesh has escaped our steady plodding , and Lees has repudiated his own share in the founding , that is no reason why we should swerve .
8 .
There is no apparent reason why we should feel bound by Swadesh's rules and procedure since his predilections and aims have grown so vast .
It seems time to consider a revision of operational procedures for lexicostatistic studies on a more humble , solid , and limited basis .
I would propose , first , an abandonment of attempts at a universal lexical list , as intrinsically unachievable , and operationally inadequate in proportion as it is achieved .
I would propose , next , as the prime requirement for constitution of new basic lists , items whose forms show as high an empirical retention rate as possible .
There would be no conceivable sense in going to the opposite extreme of selecting items whose forms are the most unstable .
An attempted middle course might lead to devices like a 5000-word alphabetized dictionary from which every fiftieth word was selected .
Doubtless it was inevitable that differences of opinion should arise about the methods for applying these policies .
It was nevertheless almost incredible that four years after Yalta there should be a complete split over Germany , with hot heads on both sides planning to use the Germans against their former allies , and with Nazi-minded Germans expecting to recover their power by fighting on one side or the other .
5 .
Poland
frontiers .
When the Yalta Conference opened , the American policy of postponing all discussion of Russia's western boundaries until the peace conference had broken down .
Starting in great force late in December , from a line stretching from East Prussia to Budapest , the Red armies had swept two hundred miles across Poland to the Oder , thirty miles from Berlin , and the Upper Danube region was being rapidly overrun , while the Western Allies had not yet occupied all of the left bank of the Rhine .
The long delay in opening the Second Front was now working to Russia's advantage .
The West was now glad to propose the 1919 Curzon Line , which was substantially Russia's 1941 border , as the boundary between Russia and Poland .
When this proposal was made , Stalin spoke with stronger emotion than at any other time during the Conference .
He stood up to emphasize his strong feeling on the subject .
The bitter memory of Russia's exclusion from the Paris Peace Conference and of the West's effort to stamp out Bolshevism at its birth boiled up within him .
`` You would drive us into shame '' , he declared .
The White Russians and the Ukrainians would say that Stalin and Molotov were far less reliable defenders of Russia than Curzon and Clemenceau .
Yet after long and earnest discussion Stalin accepted the Curzon Line and even agreed voluntarily that there should be digressions from that line of five to eight kilometers in favor of Poland in some regions .
He did not mind the Line itself , which Churchill declared in the House of Commons , on February 27 , 1945 , he had always believed to be `` just and right '' , but he did not want it called by a hated name .
The West had long since forgotten the events of 1919 , but it was not so easy for the Red leaders , who felt that they had suffered great injustice in that period .
In the Dunn-Atherton memorandum of February 4 , 1942 , the State Department had expected to be able to hold Russia in check by withholding agreement to her 1941 boundaries .
Now Stalin made it clear that he meant to move Poland's western borders deep into Germany , back to the western Neisse-Oder River lines , taking not only East Prussia and all of Silesia but Pomerania and the tip of Brandenburg , back to and including Stettin .
From six to nine million additional Germans would be evicted , though most would have fled , and Poland would receive far more from Germany than the poor territories , including the great Pripet Marshes , which she lost to Russia .
Stalin declared that he preferred to continue the war a little longer , `` although it costs us blood '' , in order to give Poland compensation in the West at the expense of the Germans .
By this time Churchill was not so cordial toward moving Poland westward as he had been at Teheran , where he and Eden had both heartily approved the idea .
After `` a prolonged study of the Oder line on a map '' , at Teheran , Churchill `` liked the picture '' .
He would tell the Poles , he said , that they had been `` given a fine place to live in , more than three hundred miles each way '' .
At Yalta he thought more about the six million Germans who would have to leave , trying to find work in Germany , and Roosevelt objected to the Western Neisse River being chosen in the south , instead of the Eastern Neisse , both of which flow into the Oder .
The issue was left in abeyance , presumably for the peace conference .
However , there was no real question of the justice of creating a strong Poland , both industrially and agriculturally , and one unplagued by large minorities of Germans or Russians .
The moving of millions of the German master-race , from the very heart of Junkerdom , to make room for the Polish Slavs whom they had enslaved and openly planned to exterminate was a drastic operation , but there was little doubt that it was historically justified .
Government .
Of more importance to the West than Poland's boundaries was the character of her government .
At Yalta the West still believed that Eastern Europe could be kept in its orbit , in spite of the onrushing Soviet armies .
Though little democracy had ever been practised in this region , and much of it was still ruled by feudalistic means , it was taken for granted that at least the forms of Western democracy would be established in this area and Western capitalism preserved within it .
Believing devoutly as they did in Anglo-Saxon institutions , it was important to both Roosevelt and Churchill that the Poles should have them .
The issue was acute because the exiled Polish Government in London , supported in the main by Britain , was still competing with the new Lublin Government formed behind the Red Army .
More time was spent in trying to marry these incompatibles than over any subject discussed at Yalta .
The result was an agreement that the Lublin Government should be `` reorganized on a broader democratic basis with the inclusion of democratic leaders from Poland itself and from the Poles abroad '' , and pledged to hold `` free and unfettered elections as soon as possible on the basis of universal suffrage and secret ballot '' .
All `` democratic and anti-Nazi parties '' were to have the right to campaign .
Roosevelt acted as moderator of the long debate on this issue .
It was a matter of principle with Churchill , since Britain had declared war in behalf of Poland .
To Stalin it was a matter of life and death .
He made this completely clear .
Speaking with `` great earnestness '' , he said : `` For the Russian people , the question of Poland is not only a question of honor but also a question of security .
Throughout history , Poland has been the corridor through which the enemy has passed into Russia .
Twice in the last thirty years our enemies , the Germans , have passed through this corridor .
It is in Russia's interest that Poland should be strong and powerful , in a position to shut the door of this corridor by her own force .
It is necessary that Poland should be free , independent in power .
Therefore , it is not only a question of honor but of life and death for the Soviet state '' .
In other words , the Soviet Union was determined to create a Poland so strong as to be a powerful bulwark against Germany and so closely tied to Russia that there would never be any question of her serving as a cordon sanitaire against the Soviets or posing as an independent , balancing power in between Russia and Germany .
Byrnes says that invariably thereafter the Soviets used the same security argument to justify their course in Poland .
This reasoning was also as inevitable as anything could be .
Any free elections that were to be held in Poland would have to produce a government in which Moscow had complete confidence , and all pressure from the West for free voting by anti-Soviet elements in Poland would be met by restrictions on voting by these elements .
6 .
Liberated Europe
In even greater degree the same rule applied to the remainder of Eastern Europe , where the upper classes had generally collaborated with the Nazis , even to the extent of sending millions of their peasants into Russia as a part of Hitler's armies .
But at Yalta the conflicting expectations of East and West were merged into an agreement by the Big Three to assist all liberated countries in Europe `` to create democratic institutions of their own choice '' .
In any case `` here in their judgment conditions require '' ( italics added ) they would `` form interim governmental authorities broadly representative of all democratic elements in the population and pledged to the earliest possible establishment through free elections of governments responsive to the will of the people '' .
Other similar affirmations in the Declaration on Liberated Europe seemed to assure democratic institutions on the Western model .
Later it developed that the Soviets had a very different interpretation of democracy , which will be discussed later , and their judgment never told them that the Big Three should unite in establishing democratic conditions , as we understand them , within their zone of influence .
Professor McNeill thinks that at Yalta , Stalin did not fully realize the dilemma which faced him , that he thought the exclusion of the anti-Soviet voters from East European elections would not be greatly resented by his allies , while neither Roosevelt nor Churchill frankly faced `` the fact that , in Poland at least , genuinely free democratic elections would return governments unfriendly to Russia '' , by any definition of international friendliness .
Also war-time propaganda and cooperation had `` obscured the differences between Russian and Western ideas of democracy '' , and it seemed better to have them covered by verbal formulae than to imperil the military victories over Germany and Japan .
The application of these formulae could not please both sides , for they really attempted to marry the impossible to the inevitable .
While obliged to concede governments in East Europe allied with the Soviet Union instead of opposed to it , we thought we had preserved our social and economic system in East Europe .
This illusion was described in a far-sighted editorial in The New York Herald Tribune , on March 5 , 1947 , in connection with the submission of the satellite peace treaties to the Senate .
In doing so Marshall and Byrnes were `` asking for the ratification of a grim lesson in the facts of international life '' .
We had entertained exaggerated ideas about our victory automatically establishing our system throughout the world .
`` We were troubled about the fate of the Baltic States .
Yalta left us with comforting illusions of a Western capitalist-democratic political economy reigning supreme up to the Curzon line and the borders of Bessarabia '' ( Italics added )
.
This is a penetrating description of our post-war illusion , which applied to other areas than East Europe .
The same editorial continued that `` We expected to democratize Japan and Korea and to see a new China pattern itself easily on our institutions .
We expected , in short , that most of the world would make itself over in our image and that it would be relatively simple , from such a position , to deal with the localized aberrations of the Soviet Union '' .
Yet actually `` the image corresponded in no way to the actualities of the post-war world .
Neither our military , our economic nor our ideological power reached far enough '' to determine the fate of East Europe .
Then the editorial added prophetically : `` how far they may reach in Asia is yet undetermined , but they fall far short of our dreams of the war conferences '' .
Here is the best short explanation of the origins of the Cold War that has been written .
Failing to heed the lesson so clearly contained in the satellite treaties , President Truman re-declared the Cold War on March 12 , 1947 , in the Truman Doctrine , exactly one week after the Herald Tribune editorial was written , and a year after the Cold War had been announced by Churchill at Fulton , Missouri , in Truman's presence .
Then China promptly went Communist , and Mr. Truman had to fight the interminable Korean war for the democratization of Korea before we learned how far our writ did `` reach in Asia '' .
Years of war , strain , and hatred ; ;
of heavy arms expenditures and constant danger of another world war had to ensue before the United States could bring itself to accept the two chief results of World War 2 , -- Communist control of East Europe and China -- a new balance of power .
While the Cold War raged it was easy to blame it all on Yalta .
Yet , in summarizing a series of careful essays on the Yalta Conference , Forrest Pogue could find no basis for Yalta becoming `` a symbol for betrayal and a shibboleth for the opponents of Roosevelt and international cooperation '' .
When the Yalta Papers were finally published with great fanfare they had revealed no betrayal by anyone .
An analysis of the election falls naturally in four parts .
First is the long and still somewhat obscure process of preparation , planning and discussion .
Preparation began slightly more than a year after independence with the first steps to organize rural communes .
All political interests supported electoral planning , although there are some signs that the inherent uncertainties of a popular judgment led to some procrastination .
The second major aspect of the election is the actual procedure of registration , nomination and voting .
Considerable technical skill was used and the administration of the elections was generally above reproach .
However , the regionally differentiated results , which appear below in tables , are interesting evidence of the problems of developing self-government under even the most favorable circumstances .
A third aspect , and probably the one open to most controversy , is the results of the election .
The electoral procedure prevented the ready identification of party affiliation , but all vitally interested parties , including the government itself , were busily engaged in determining the party identifications of all successful candidates the month following the elections .
The fourth and concluding point will be to estimate the long-run significance of the elections and how they figure in the current pattern of internal politics .
Elections have figured prominently in nearly every government program and official address since independence .
They were stressed in the speeches of Si Mubarak Bekkai when the first Council of Ministers was formed and again when the Istiqlal took a leading role in the second Council .
King Muhammad 5 , was known to be most sympathetic to the formation of local self-government and made the first firm promise of elections on May Day , 1957 .
There followed a long and sometimes bitter discussion of the feasibility of elections for the fall of 1957 , in which it appears that the Minister of the Interior took the most pessimistic view and that the Istiqlal was something less than enthusiastic .
Since the complicated process of establishing new communes and reviewing the rudimentary plan left by the French did not even begin until the fall of 1957 , this goal appears somewhat ambitious .
From the very beginning the electoral discussions raised fundamental issues in Moroccan politics , precisely the type of questions that were most difficult to resolve in the new government .
Until the Charter of Liberties was issued in the fall of 1958 , there were no guarantees of the right to assemble or to organize for political purposes .
The Istiqlal was still firmly united in 1957 , but the P.D.I. ( Parti Democratique de l'Independance ) , the most important minor party at the time , objected to the Istiqlal's predominance in the civil service and influence in Radio Maroc .
There were rumors that the Ministry of the Interior favored an arbitrary , `` non-political '' process , which were indirectly affirmed when the King personally intervened in the planned meetings .
The day following his intervention the palace issued a statement reassuring the citizens that `` the possibility of introducing appeals concerning the establishment of electoral lists , lists of candidates and finally the holding of the consultation itself '' would be supported by the King himself .
The Ifni crisis in the fall of 1957 postponed further consideration of elections , but French consultants were called in and notices of further investigation appeared from time to time .
In January , 1958 , the Minister of the Interior announced that an election law was ready to be submitted to the King , the rumors of election dates appeared once again , first for spring of 1958 and later for the summer .
Although the government was probably prepared for elections by mid-1958 , the first decision was no doubt made more difficult as party strife multiplied .
In late 1957 the M.P. ( Mouvement Populaire ) appeared and in the spring of 1958 the internal strains of the Istiqlal was revealed when the third Council of Government under Balafrej was formed without support from progressive elements in the party .
The parties were on the whole unprepared for elections , while the people were still experiencing post-independence let-down and suffering the after-effects of poor harvests in 1957 .
Despite the internal and international crises that harassed Morocco the elections remained a central issue .
They figured prominently in the Balafrej government of May , 1958 , which the King was reportedly determined to keep in office until elections could be held .
But the eagerly sought `` homogeneity '' of the Balafrej Council of Government was never achieved as the Istiqlal quarreled over foreign policy , labor politics and economic development .
By December , 1958 , when ' Abdallah Ibrahim became President of the Council , elections had even greater importance .
They were increasingly looked upon as a means of establishing the new rural communes as the focus of a new , constructive national effort .
To minimize the chances of repeating the Balafrej debacle the Ibrahim government was formed .
A titre personnel and a special office was created in the Ministry of the Interior to plan and to conduct the elections .
By this time there is little doubt but what election plans were complete .
There remained only the delicate task of maneuvering the laws through the labyrinth of Palace politics and making a small number of policy decisions .
From the rather tortuous history of electoral planning in Morocco an important point emerges concerning the first elections in a developing country and evaluating their results .
In the new country the electoral process is considered as a means of resolving fundamental , and sometimes bitter , differences among leaders and also as a source of policy guidance .
In the absence of a reservoir of political consensus each organized political group hopes that the elections will give them new prominence , but in a system where there is as yet no place for the less prominent .
Lacking the respected and effective institutions that consensus helps provide , minority parties , such as the P.D.I. in 1957 and the progressive Istiqlal faction in 1958 , clamor for elections when out of power , but are not at all certain they wish to be controlled by popular choice when in power .
Those in power tend to procrastinate and even to repudiate the electoral process .
The tendency to treat elections as an instrument of self-interest rather than an instrument of national interest had two important effects on electoral planning in Morocco .
At the central level the scrutin uninominal voting system was selected over some form of the scrutin de liste system , even though the latter had been recommended by Duverger and favored by all political parties .
The choice of the single member district was dictated to a certain extent by problems of communication and understanding in the more remote areas of the country , but it also served to minimize the national political value of the elections .
Although the elections were for local officials , it was not necessary to conduct the elections so as to prevent parties from publicly identifying their candidates .
With multiple member districts the still fragmentary local party organizations could have operated more effectively and parties might have been encouraged to state their positions more clearly .
Both parties and the Ministry of the Interior were busily at work after the elections trying to unearth the political affiliations of the successful candidates and , thereby , give the elections a confidential but known degree of national political significance .
Since a national interpretation cannot be avoided it is unfortunate that the elections were not held in a way to maximize party responsibility and the educational effect of mass political participation .
The general setting of the Moroccan election may also encourage the deterioration of local party organization .
The concentration of effective power in Rabat leads not only to party bickering , but to distraction from local activity that might have had many auxiliary benefits in addition to contributing to more meaningful elections .
Interesting evidence can be found in the results of the Chamber of Commerce elections , which took place three weeks before national elections .
The Istiqlal-sponsored U.M.C.I.A. ( L'Union Marocaine Des Commercants , Industrialistes et Artisans ) was opposed by candidates of the new U.N.F.P. ( L'Union National Des Forces Populaires ) in nearly all urban centers .
As the more conservative group with strong backing from wealthy businessmen , the U.M.C.I.A. was generally favored against the more progressive , labor-based U.N.F.P. .
The newer party campaigned heavily , while the older , more confident party expected the Moroccan merchants and small businessmen to support them as they had done for many years .
The local Istiqlal and U.M.C.I.A. offices did not campaign and lost heavily .
The value of the elections was lost , both as an experiment in increased political participation and as a reliable indicator of commercial interest , as shown in Table 1 .
The Chamber of Commerce elections were , of course , an important event in the preparation for rural commune elections .
The U.N.F.P. learned that its urban organization , which depends heavily on U.M.T. support , was most effective .
The Istiqlal found that the spontaneous solidarity of the independence struggle was not easily transposed to the more concrete , precise problems of internal politics .
The overall effect was probably to stimulate more party activity in the communal elections than might have otherwise taken place .
A second major point of this essay is to examine the formal arrangements for the elections .
Although a somewhat technical subject , it has important political implications as the above discussion of the voting system indicated .
Furthermore , the problems and solutions devised in the electoral experiences of the rapidly changing countries are often of comparative value and essential to evaluating election results .
The sine qua non of the elections was naturally an impartial and standardized procedure .
As the background discussion indicated there were frequently expressed doubts that a government dominated by either party could fairly administer elections .
The P.D.I. and later the Popular Movement protected the Istiqlal's `` privileged position '' until the fall of Balafrej , and then the Istiqlal used the same argument , which it had previously ignored , against the pro-U.N.F.P. tendencies of the Ibrahim government .
The bulk of the preparation had , of course , proceeded under the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior , whose officials are barred from party activity and probably generally disinterested in party politics .
Apart from some areas of recurring trouble , like Bani Mellal , where inexperienced officials had been appointed , there is little evidence that local officials intervened in the electoral process .
Centrally , however , the administrative problem was more complex and the sheer prestige of office was very likely an unfair advantage .
The King decided to remove Ibrahim a week before elections and to institute a non-party Council of Government under his personal direction .
Although the monarch had frequently asserted that the elections were to be without party significance , his action was an implicit admission that party identifications were a factor .
The new Council was itself inescapably of political meaning , which was most clearly revealed in the absence of any U.N.F.P. members and the presence of several Istiqlal leaders .
Since the details of the elections were settled the change of government had no direct effect on the technical aspects of the elections , and may have been more important as an indication of royal displeasure with the U.N.F.P.
.
Voting preparations began in the fall of 1959 , although the actual demarcation and planning for the rural communes was completed in 1958 .
There were three major administrative tasks : the fixing of electoral districts , the registration of voters and the registration of candidates .
Voter registration began in late November 1959 and continued until early January , 1960 .
The government was most anxious that there be a respectable response .
Periodic bulletins of the accomplishment in each province made the registration process into a kind of competition among provincial officials .
A goal was fixed , as given in Table 2 , and attention focused on its fulfillment .
The qualifications to vote were kept very simple .
Both men and women of twenty-one years of age could register and vote upon presenting proof of residence and identification .
There were liberal provisions for dispensation where documents or records were lacking .
The police were disqualified along with certain categories of naturalized citizens , criminals and those punished for Protectorate activities .
The registration figures given in Table 2 must be interpreted with caution since the estimate for eligible electors were made without the benefit of a reliable census .
Unemployed older workers who have no expectation of securing employment in the occupation in which they are skilled should be able to secure counseling and retraining in an occupation with a future .
Some vocational training schools provide such training , but the current need exceeds the facilities .
Current programs
The present Federal program of vocational education began in 1917 with the passage of the Smith-Hughes Act , which provided a continuing annual appropriation of $7 million to support , on a matching basis , state-administered programs of vocational education in agriculture , trades , industrial skills and home economics .
Since 1917 some thirteen supplementary and related acts have extended this Federal program .
The George-Barden Act of 1946 raised the previous increases in annual authorizations to $29 million in addition to the $7 million under the Smith Act .
The Health Amendment Act of 1956 added $5 million for practical nurse training .
The latest major change in this program was introduced by the National Defense Education Act of 1958 , Title 8 , of which amended the George-Barden Act .
Annual authorizations of $15 million were added for area vocational education programs that meet national defense needs for highly skilled technicians .
The Federal program of vocational education merely provides financial aid to encourage the establishment of vocational education programs in public schools .
The initiative , administration and control remain primarily with the local school districts .
Even the states remain primarily in an assisting role , providing leadership and teacher training .
Federal assistance is limited to half of the total expenditure , and the state or local districts must pay at least half .
The state may decide to encourage local programs by paying half of the cost , or the state may require the local district to bear this half or some part of it .
Throughout the history of the program , state government expenditures in the aggregate have usually matched or exceeded the Federal expenditures , while local districts all together have spent more than either Federal or state governments .
Today , Federal funds account for only one-fifth of the nation's expenditures for vocational education .
The greatest impact of the matching-fund principle has been in initially encouraging the poorest states and school districts to spend enough to obtain their full allocation of outside funds .
National defense considerations have been the major reason behind most Federal training expenditures in recent decades .
During World War 2 , about 7.5 million persons were enrolled in courses organized under two special programs administered by state and local school authorities : ( 1 ) Vocational Education for National Defense , and ( 2 ) War Production Training .
The total cost of the five-year program was $297 million .
