The total picture is only seen by the camera which integrates the many sector scans over the entire 90-degree rotation period .
Drs. Howry and Holmes at the University of Colorado Medical School have applied the same sonar technique to other areas of soft tissue and have obtained extremely good results .
By submerging the patient in a tub and rotating the transducer while the scanning goes on , they have been able to get cross-section views of the neck , as shown in Fig. 7 , as well as many other hitherto impossible insights .
As mentioned before , bone reflects the sound energy and in Fig. 7 the portion of the spine shows as the black area in the center .
Arteries and veins are apparent by their black , blood-filled centers and the surrounding white walls .
A cross-section of a normal lower human leg is shown in Fig. 8 with the various parts labeled .
Oersted's boyhood represented a minimal chance of either attaining greatness or serving his people so well and over so long a span of life .
He was born in the small Danish town of Rudkoebing on the island of Langeland in the south-central part of Denmark on August 14 , 1777 .
His father Soeren was the village apothecary whose slender income made it difficult to feed his family , let alone educate them in a town without even a school .
The two older boys , Hans and Anders , his junior by a year , therefore went daily to the home of a warm and friendly wigmaker nearby for instruction in German ; ;
his wife taught the two boys to read and write Danish .
Other brothers later joined them for instruction with Oldenburg , the wigmaker , and also arithmetic was added to Bible reading , German , and Danish in the informal curriculum .
Oldenburg's contributions were soon exhausted and the boys had to turn to a wider circle of the town's learned , such as the pastor , to supplement the simple teaching .
From the town surveyor , Hans learned drawing and mathematics and , from a university student , some academic subjects .
The mayor of the town taught them English and French .
Whatever Hans or Anders learned separately they passed on to each other ; ;
they read every book that they could borrow in the village .
At 12 , Hans was sufficiently mature to help his father in the apothecary shop , which helped stimulate his interest in medicine and science .
His earlier love for literature and history remained with him for his entire life .
In 1793 the brothers decided to enter the University of Copenhagen ( founded in 1479 ) and the following spring found them at the university preparing to matriculate for the autumn session .
While Hans devoted himself to the sciences of medicine , physics , and astronomy , his brother studied law .
The brothers continued to help each other during their studies , sharing a joint purse , lodging together in the dormitory and dining together at the home of their aunt .
They supplemented their income by small government assistance , by tutoring and economizing wherever they could .
So impressive were those serious years of study at the university that Hans later wrote , `` to be perfectly free , the young man must revel in the great kingdom of thought and imagination ; ;
there is a struggle there , in which , if he falls , it is easy for him to rise again , there is freedom of utterance there , which draws after it no irreparable consequences on society .
I lived in this onward-driving contest where each day overcame a new difficulty , gained a new truth , or banished a previous error '' .
He openly proclaimed his pleasure in lecturing and writing about science .
In this third year at the university , Hans , in 1797 , was awarded the first important token of recognition , a gold medal for his essay on `` Limits Of Poetry And Prose '' .
He completed his training in pharmacy also , taking his degree with high honors in 1797 , and in 1799 was awarded the degree of Doctor of Philosophy along with a prize for an essay in medicine .
He proposed a fresh theory of alkalis which later was accepted in chemical practices .
Ferment of scientific activity
Hans' student days were at a time when Europe was in a new intellectual ferment following the revolutions in America and in France , Germany and Italy were rising from divisive nationalisms and a strong wave of intellectual awareness was sweeping the Continent .
The new century opened with Oersted beginning his professional career in charge of an apothecary shop in Copenhagen and as lecturer at the university .
He was stirred by the announcement of Volta's discovery of chemical electricity and he immediately applied the voltaic pile to experiments with acids and alkalis .
The following year he devoted to the customary `` Wanderjahr '' , traveling in Germany , France , and the Netherlands , meeting the philosophers Schelling , Fichte , and Tieck .
He also met Count Rumford ( born Benjamin Thompson in Woburn , Mass. ) who was then serving the Elector of Bavaria , and the physicist Ritter ; ;
these were Oersted's main contacts in science .
From Gottingen ( 1801 ) where he stayed for 10 days , he wrote , `` The first question asked everywhere is about galvanism .
As everybody is curious to see the battery of glass tubes I have invented , I have had quite a small one made here of four glass tubes ( in Copenhagen I used 30 ) and intend to carry it with me '' .
Oersted joined Ritter at Jena and stayed with him for 3 weeks , continuing their correspondence after he left .
With Ritter he was exposed to the fantastic profusion of ideas that stormed through his host's fertile but disorganized mind .
Oersted remodeled Ritter's notes into an essay in French which was submitted to the Institut De France for its annual prize of 3,000 francs .
The sound discoveries of this quixotic genius were so diluted by those of fantasy that the prize was never awarded to him .
In May , 1803 , Ritter , in another flight of fancy , wrote to Oersted a letter that contained a remarkable prophecy .
He related events on earth to periodic celestial phenomena and indicated that the years of maximum inclination of the ecliptic coincided with the years of important electrical discoveries .
Thus , 1745 corresponded to the invention of the `` Leiden '' jar by Kleist , 1764 that of the electrophorus by Wilcke , 1782 produced the condenser of Volta , and 1801 the voltaic pile .
Ritter proceeded , `` You now emerge into a new epoch in which late in the year 1819 or 1820 , you will have to reckon .
This we might well witness '' .
Ritter died in 1810 and Oersted not only lived to see the event occur but was the author of it .
In 1803 Oersted returned to Copenhagen and applied for the university's chair in physics but was rejected because he was probably considered more a philosopher than a physicist .
However , he continued experimenting and lecturing , publishing the results of his experiments in German and Danish periodicals .
In 1806 his ambition was realized and he became professor of physics at the Copenhagen University , though not realizing full professorship ( ordinarius ) until 1817 .
During Oersted's attendance at the university , it was poorly equipped with physical apparatus for experimenting in the sciences .
He was , however , fortunate in his contact with Prof. J. G. L. Manthey ( 1769-1842 ) , teacher of chemistry , who , in addition to his academic chair , was also proprietor of the `` Lion Pharmacy '' in Copenhagen where Oersted assisted him .
Manthey maintained a valuable collection of physical and chemical apparatus which was at Oersted's disposal during and after his graduation .
In 1800 , Manthey went abroad and Oersted was appointed manager of the Lion Pharmacy .
In February 1801 , Oersted did manage to experiment with physical apparatus and reported experiments made with a voltaic battery of 600 plates of zinc and silver and of later experiments with a battery of 60 plates of zinc and lead .
In the following year , 1803 , Oersted , simultaneously with Davy , discovered that acids increased the strength of a voltaic battery more than did salts .
Eager as he was to pursue this promising line , he was so loaded down with the management of the pharmacy and lectures in the medical and pharmaceutical faculties at the university that he could devote only Sunday afternoons to `` galvanizing '' .
He assumed his academic career with the same intensity and thoroughness that had marked every step in his rise from boyhood .
The university was the only one in Denmark and the status of professor represented the upper social level .
His broad interest in literary , political , and philosophical movements opened many doors to him .
His friends were numerous and their ties to him were strong .
The years 1812 and 1813 saw him in Germany and France again , but on this visit to Berlin he did not seek out the philosophers as he had on his first journey .
In Berlin he published his views of the chemical laws of nature in German and this was issued in French translation ( Paris , 1813 ) under the title Recherches Sur l'identite Des Forces chimiques et electriques , a work held in very high esteem by the new generation of research chemists .
His interest in finding a relationship between voltaic electricity and magnetism is here first indicated .
Chapter 8 , is entitled `` On Magnetism '' and in it are included such remarks as , `` One has always been tempted to compare the magnetic forces with the electrical forces .
The great resemblance between electrical and magnetic attractions and repulsions and the similarity of their laws necessarily would bring about this comparison .
It is true , that nothing has been found comparable with electricity by communication ; ;
but the phenomena observed had such a degree of analogy to those depending on electrical distribution that one could not find the slightest difference .
The form of galvanic activity is halfway between the magnetic form and the electrical form .
There , forces are more latent than in electricity , and less than in magnetism .
But in such an important question , we would be satisfied if the judgment were that the principal objection to the identity of forces which produce electricity and magnetism were only a difficulty , and not a thing which is contrary to it .
One could also add to these analogies that steel loses its magnetism by heat , which proves that steel becomes a better conductor through a rise in temperature , just as electrical bodies do .
It is also found that magnetism exists in all bodies of nature , as proven by Bruckmann and Coulomb .
By that , one feels that magnetic forces are as general as electrical forces .
An attempt should be made to see if electricity , in its most latent stage , has any action on the magnet as such '' .
His plan and intent were clearly charted .
Oersted returned in 1814 and resumed an active part in university and political discussions .
In one debate he supported the freedom of judgment as opposed to dogma , in another he held that the practice of science was in fact an act of religious worship .
He continued as a popular lecturer .
He devised a detonating fuse in which a short wire was caused to glow by an electric current .
In 1819 under royal command he undertook a very successful geological expedition to Bornholm , one of the Danish islands , being one of three scientists in the expedition .
It was with the assistance of one of the members of this expedition , Lauritz Esmarch , that Oersted succeeded in producing light by creating an electric discharge in mercury vapor through which an electric current was made to flow .
Together they also developed a new form of voltaic cell in which the wooden trough was replaced by one of copper , thereby producing stronger currents .
Esmarch was among those who witnessed Oersted's first demonstration of his discovery .
Discovery of electromagnetism
the association between electric ( both electrostatic and voltaic ) forces and magnetic forces had been recognized by investigators for many decades .
Electrical literature contained numerous references to lightning that had magnetized iron and had altered the polarity of compass needles .
In the late 1700's Beccaria and Van Marum , among others , had magnetized iron by sending an electrostatic charge through it .
Beccaria had almost stumbled on a lead to the relationship between electricity and magnetism when a discharge from a Leyden jar was sent transversally through a piece of watch-spring steel making its ends magnetic .
The resulting magnetic effect proved stronger than when the discharge was made lengthwise .
The experiments of Romagnosi and others have already been noted but no one had determined the cause-and-effect relationship between these two primary forces .
Oersted's own earlier experiments were unimpressive , possibly because he had , like other experimenters , laid the conducting wire across the compass needle instead of parallel with it .
The sequence of events leading to his important discovery still remains ambiguous but it seems that one of the advanced students at the university related that the first direct event that led to the publication of Oersted's discovery occurred during a private lecture made before a group of other advanced students in the spring of 1820 .
At this lecture Oersted happened to place the conducting wire over and parallel to a magnetic needle .
Knowing specifically what the many feed additives can do and how and when to feed them can make a highly competitive business more profitable for beef , dairy , and sheep men .
The target chart quickly and briefly tells you which additives do what .
All the additives listed here are sanctioned for use by the Food and Drug Administration of the federal government .
All comments concerning effectiveness and use of drugs have been carefully reviewed by a veterinary medical officer with Aj .
This article assumes that the rations you are feeding your beef , dairy cattle , and sheep are adequately balanced with protein , vitamins , and minerals .
The drug's chemical name is listed , since most states require feed processors to use this name instead of the trade name on the feed tag .
In some instances , the trade name is shown in parentheses following the chemical name .
This indicates that this drug is being marketed under one trade name only or state regulatory organizations have approved its use on the feed tag .
Here's your feed additive guide for ruminants :
drug's chemical name :
Oxytetracycline hydrochloride ( Terramycin ) what it does :
Increases rate of gain and improves feed efficiency , aids in the prevention or treatment ( depending on level fed ) of the early stages of shipping fever , prevents or treats bacterial diarrhea , and aids in reducing incidence of bloat and liver abscesses .
Milk production may be increased by the anti-infective properties of this drug .
How to feed : beef cattle ( finishing ration )
-- To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency , feed 75 milligrams per head in daily supplement .
Calves
-- To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency , feed 10 to 25 grams per ton of complete feed .
As an aid in the prevention of bacterial diarrhea ( scours ) , feed 50 grams per ton of complete feed .
For the treatment of bacterial scours , feed 100-200 grams .
For prevention or treatment of bacterial scours , feed 0.1 to 5 milligrams per pound of body weight daily .
Beef and dairy
-- As an aid in reducing incidence and severity of bloat , provide 75 milligrams of oxytetracycline hydrochloride per animal daily .
To reduce incidence of liver abscesses , supply 75 milligrams of oxytetracycline activity per head daily .
To prevent or treat bacterial diarrhea , furnish 0.1 to 5 milligrams per pound of body weight daily .
For the prevention or treatment of the early stages of shipping fever complex , increase feeding level to 0.5 to 2 grams per head per day .
For the best results , feed this level to cattle 3 to 5 days preceding shipment and/or 3 to 5 days following their arrival in your feed lot .
For treatment of shipping fever , this level should be fed at the onset of the disease symptoms until symptoms disappear .
Sheep
-- To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency , feed 10 to 20 grams per ton .
As an aid in the prevention of bacterial diarrhea ( scours ) , feed 50 grams per ton .
Drug's chemical name :
Chlortetracycline ( Aureomycin ) what it does :
Increases gains , improves feed efficiency , and reduces losses from bacterial infections listed under `` How To Feed '' section .
Milk production may be increased by the anti-infective properties of this drug .
How to feed : beef
-- Not less than 70 milligrams of Aureomycin per head daily to aid in the prevention of liver abscesses in feed-lot beef cattle .
Prevention of bacterial pneumonia , shipping fever , as an aid in reduction of losses due to respiratory infections ( infectious rhinotracheitis -- shipping fever complex ) .
Feed at level of 70 milligrams per head per day .
Treatment of the above diseases : 350 milligrams per head per day for 30 days only .
For prevention of these diseases during periods of stress such as shipping , excessive handling , vaccination , extreme weather conditions : 350 milligrams per head per day for 30 days only .
As an aid in reducing bacterial diarrhea and preventing foot rot , feed not less than 0.1 milligram per pound of body weight daily .
To aid in the prevention of anaplasmosis , feed not less than 0.5 milligram per pound of body weight daily .
Dairy
-- For calves , feed not less than 50 grams of Aureomycin per ton complete feed as an aid in preventing bacterial diarrhea and foot rot .
For cows , feed providing an intake of 0.1 milligram of Aureomycin per pound of body weight daily aids in the reduction of bacterial diarrhea , in the prevention of foot rot , and in the reduction of losses due to respiratory infection ( infectious rhinotracheitis -- shipping fever complex ) .
Sheep
-- As an aid in reducing losses due to enterotoxemia ( overeating disease ) , feed a complete ration containing not less than 20 and not more than 50 grams of Aureomycin per ton .
To reduce vibrionic abortion in breeding sheep , feed 80 milligrams per head daily .
Drug's chemical name :
Dynafac .
What it does :
An aid in getting cattle and sheep on full feed , in improving feed conversion and growth , in reducing bloat and founder , and in controlling scours .
How to feed : beef and dairy calves
-- 0.2 gram Dynafac per head daily ( 1 gram of premix per head daily ) for promoting growth , feed conversion , bloom , and full feed earlier .
Feeder cattle
-- Dynafac in a complete ration or 0.3 to 0.4 gram per head per day ( 200 grams of premix per ton complete ration or equivalent .
Animals consuming 20 pounds feed daily receive 2 grams Dynafac ) .
Aids in minimizing the occurrence of feed-lot bloat due to high consumption of concentrates .
Sheep and lambs
-- 1.0 gram premix per head per day for promoting growth , feed conversion , and getting lambs on full feed earlier .
Drug's chemical name :
Diethylstilbestrol .
What it does :
Increases rate of gain and improves feed efficiency .
How to feed : beef cattle
-- 10 milligrams of diethylstilbestrol per head daily .
This may be incorporated in complete feeds at the level of 0.4 milligram of diethylstilbestrol per pound of ration -- assuming animal consumes about 25 pounds daily .
The drug is also incorporated in supplements .
These are to be fed at a rate to provide 10 milligrams DES per head daily .
The recommended 10-milligram daily intake level should be maintained .
It may be incorporated into cattle creep feeds in levels from 1.0 to 1.5 milligrams of diethylstilbestrol per pound of feed .
Sheep fattening rations
-- The recommended level for sheep is 2 milligrams daily , and this level should be maintained .
Include supplement containing 0.4 to 2 milligrams per pound to provide 2 milligrams per head per day .
Caution :
Discontinue medication 48 hours before slaughter .
Drug's chemical name :
Hydroxazine hydrochloride .
What it does :
Improves growth rate and feed efficiency of fattening beef animals .
How to feed :
At the rate of 2-1/2 milligrams per head per day .
Drug's chemical name :
Iodinated casein .
What it does :
Drug elevates the metabolic rate of the cow .
Fed to dairy cattle to increase milk production and butterfat percentage .
How to feed :
1 to 1-1/2 grams per 100 pounds of body weight .
Caution :
Cows receiving drug may not be officially tested under breed registry testing programs .
Drug's chemical name :
Bacterial and fungal enzymes .
( These enzyme preparations appear on today's feed tags as fermentation extracts of Bacillus subtilis , Apergillus orzae , Niger , and Flavus .
) what it does :
Improves utilization of low-moisture corn ( less than 14% ) .
How to feed :
Greatest benefits have been associated with feeding low-moisture corn in beef-feeding programs .
Several firms are merchandising enzyme preparation through feed manufacturers .
Drug's chemical name :
Ronnel .
What it does :
Effectively controls cattle grubs which damage hides and can reduce gains .
How to feed :
Drug is added to either a protein or mineral supplement for a period of 7 or 14 days .
Follow manufacturer's recommendation carefully .
Caution :
Do not feed to dairy cows and do not feed within 60 days of slaughter .
Drug's chemical name :
Methyl polysiloxanes .
What it does :
Aids in preventing foamy bloat .
How to feed :
For prevention of foamy bloat , feed at a rate of 0.5 to 2 milligrams per head per day in mineral or salt or feed .
For treatment of bloat , drug is fed at a higher level .
Drug's chemical name :
Phenothiazine .
What it does :
Reduces losses from stomach , hookworm , and nodular worms by interfering with reproduction of the female worm by reducing the number of eggs laid and essentially rendering all laid eggs sterile .
Also , aids in the control of horn flies by preventing them from hatching in the droppings .
How to feed :
Treat cattle with 10 grams per 100 pounds body weight with a maximum of 70 grams per animal .
Then , for the above parasites , feed continuously at these levels : Feeder cattle -- 2-5 grams of phenothiazine daily ; ;
beef calves -- to 1.5 grams daily depending on weight of animal .
Treat lambs with 12 grams per head for lambs weighing up to 50 pounds ; ;
treat lambs over 50 pounds and adults with 24 grams per animal .
For continuous control , feed 1 part phenothiazine to 9 parts minerals or salts .
To include in feed , add phenothiazine to supply 0.5 to 1 gram per sheep daily .
Caution :
Continuous administration is not recommended for lactating cows .
Following single-dose treatment , milk should be discarded for 4 days following treatment .
Drug's chemical name :
Procaine penicillin .
What it does :
Aids in reducing the incidence and severity of bloat in beef or dairy cattle on legume pasture .
How to feed :
Feed 75,000 units or 75 milligrams per head daily .
Drug's chemical name :
Sodium propionate .
What it does :
For the prevention or treatment of acetonemia ( ketosis ) in dairy cows .
How to feed :
For the prevention of acetonemia ( ketosis ) feed 1/4 pound per day beginning at calving and continuing for 6 weeks .
For the treatment of ketosis feed 1/4 to 1/2 pound per day for 10 days .
Drug's chemical name :
Sulfaquinoxaline .
What it does :
Helps control shipping dysentery and coccidiosis in lambs .
How to feed : lambs
-- feed at level for 2 or 3 days .
Drug's chemical name :
Dried rumen bacteria .
What it does :
Stimulates rumen activity .
How to feed :
Incorporated in commercially prepared feed at proper levels .
Drug's chemical name :
Calcium and sodium lactate .
What it does :
Prevents and treats acetonemia ( ketosis ) in dairy cows .
How to feed :
For prevention of ketosis , feed 1/4 pound per head daily for 6 weeks commencing at calving time .
For treatment of ketosis , feed 1/2 pound daily until symptoms disappear .
Then , feed preventive dose until 6 weeks after calving .
Drug's chemical name :
Promazine hydrochloride .
What it does :
A tranquilizer fed to cattle ( other than lactating dairy cows ) prior to their being subjected to stress conditions such as vaccinating , shipping , weaning calves , and excessive handling .
How to feed :
Not less than milligram but not more than 1.25 milligrams of additive per pound of body weight .
Caution :
Additive should not be fed 72 hours before animals are slaughtered .
There are three principal feed bunk types for dairy and beef cattle : ( 1 ) Fence-line bunks -- cattle eat from one side while feed is put in from the opposite side of the fence by self-unloading wagons ; ;
( 2 ) Mechanized bunks -- they sit within the feed lot , are filled by a mechanical conveyor above feeding surface ; ;
( 3 ) Special bunks -- as discussed here , they permit cattle to eat from all sides .
Feed is put in with an elevator .
Several materials or combinations of materials can be used to construct a satisfactory feed bunk .
The selection of materials depends on skills of available labor for installation , cost of materials available locally , and your own preference .
No one material is best for all situations .
Selecting bunks by economic comparison is usually an individual problem .
Fence-line feeding .
Animals eat only from one side , so the fence-line bunk must be twice as long as the mechanical bunk .
These bunks also serve as a fence , so part of the additional cost must be attributed to the fence .
Because of their location , on the edge of the feed lot , fence-line bunks are not in the way of mechanical manure removal .
Filling these bunks by the same self-unloading wagons used to fill silos spreads cost of the wagons over more time and operations .
All-weather roads must be provided next to the feeding floor so access will be possible all year .
This will be a problem in areas of heavy snowfall .
Marketing in the new decade will be no picnic -- for the sixties will present possibly the most intense competitive activity that you have experienced in the last 20-25 yrs. .
Why ? ?
Companies of all types have made great advances in production capabilities and efficiencies -- in modern equipment and new processes , enlarged R & D facilities , faster new product development .
Many companies have upgraded their sales manpower and tested new selling , distribution , and promotion techniques to gain a bigger competitive edge .
Given this kind of business climate , what competitive marketing problems will your company face in the next 10 yrs. ? ?
Based on our experience with clients , , we see 14 major problems which fall into three broad groups -- the market place itself , marketing methods , and marketing management .
1 .
Problems in the market
greater price-consciousness .
There has been an intensification of price-consciousness in recent years ; ;
there is every indication it will continue .
Frequently , wittingly or unwittingly , price-consciousness has been fostered by manufacturers , distributors , and dealers .
Despite generally good levels of income , we see greater price pressures than ever before -- traveling back along the chain from consumer to distributor to manufacturer .
Here are some key areas to examine to make sure your pricing strategy will be on target :
Has the probable price situation in your field been forecast as a basis for future planning ? ?
Have cost studies been made of every phase of your operation to determine what might be done if things get worse ? ?
Have you actually checked out ( not just mentally tested ) different selling approaches designed to counter the price competition problem ? ?
Increased customer sophistication .
Average consumer is becoming more sophisticated regarding product and advertising claims , partly because of widespread criticism of such assertions .
This problem can force a change in marketing approach in many kinds of businesses .
Have you examined this problem of increasing consumer sophistication from the standpoint of your own company ? ?
Greater demand for services .
Need for service is here to stay -- and the problem is going to be tougher to solve in the sixties .
There are two reasons for this .
First , most products tend to become more complex .
Second , in a competitive market , the customer feels his weight and throws it around .
Providing good customer service requires as thorough a marketing and general management planning job as the original selling of the product .
Too often it is thought of at the last moment of new product introduction .
Good service starts with product design and planning : Many products seem to be designed for a production economy , not for a service one .
Proper follow-through requires training your own sales organization , and your distributor organizations , not only in the techniques but also in good customer relations .
Have you assessed the importance of service and given it proper attention ? ?
Wider discretionary choices for customers .
In spending his money today , the consumer is pulled in many directions .
To the manufacturer of the more convenient-type product -- the purchase of which can be switched , delayed , or put off entirely -- the implications are important .
Your competition is now proportionately greater -- you are competing not only against manufacturers in the same field but also against a vast array of manufacturers of other appealing consumer products .
Many industry trade associations are developing campaigns to protect or enhance the share of the consumer's dollar being spent on their particular products .
Has your company thought through its strategy in this whole `` discretionary buying '' area ? ?
Geographic shift of customers .
The trends have been in evidence for many years -- population shifts to the Southwest and Far West , and from city to suburbs .
These shifts will continue in the next 10 yrs. .
Have you considered the implications of continuing geographic shifts in terms of sales force allocation , strength of distributor organizations , and even plant location ? ?
Market concentration and distribution in fewer accounts .
We have already witnessed great changes through mergers and acquisitions in the food industry -- at both the manufacturing and retail ends .
Instead of relatively small sales to many accounts , there are now larger sales to or through fewer accounts .
The change may require different products , pricing , packaging , warehousing , salesmanship , advertising and executive attention -- practically every link in the marketing network may have to be adjusted .
Have you examined these trends , forecast the effects , and planned your marketing strategy to compete effectively under changing circumstances ? ?
2 .
Problems in marketing methods
more private label competition .
In the area of private label competition , it is logical to expect a continuation of trends which have been under way during the first decade .
As mass dealer and distributor organizations grow in size , there is every reason to expect them to try to share in the manufacturer's as well as the distributor's profits -- which is , in effect , what the sale of private brands tends to do .
Average manufacturer frequently has helped build private brand business , delivering largely the same qualities and styles in private brand merchandise as in branded .
Moreover , the larger and more aggressive mass distribution outlets and chain stores have insisted on high quality -- and the customer seems to have caught on .
If you are up against private brand competition , have you formulated a long-term program for researching and strengthening your market position ? ?
If private brand competition hasn't been felt in your product field as yet , have you thought how you will cope with it if and when it does appear ? ?
Less personal salesmanship .
Display merchandising , backed by pre-selling through advertising and promotion , will continue to make strides in the sixties .
It has multiple implications and possible headaches for your marketing program .
How can you cash in on this fast-growing type of outlet and still maintain relationships with older existing outlets which are still important ? ?
If you have a higher-quality product , how can you make it stand out -- justify its premium price -- without the spoken word ? ?
Salesmanship is still necessary , but it's a different brand of salesmanship .
Have you carefully examined the selling techniques which best suit your products ? ?
Have you studied the caliber and sales approaches of your sales force in relation to requirements for effective marketing ? ?
Are you experimenting with different selling slants in developing new customers ? ?
Higher costs of distribution generally .
Some distribution costs are kept up by competitive pressure , some by the fact that the customers have come to expect certain niceties and flourishes .
No manufacturer has taken the initiative in pointing out the costs involved .
The use of bulk handling is continuously growing .
Computers are being used to keep branch inventories at more workable levels .
`` Selective selling '' -- concentrating sales on the larger accounts -- has been used effectively by some manufacturers .
There may be possible economies at any one of a number of links in your marketing and distribution chain .
Do you have a program for scrutinizing all these links regularly and carefully -- and with some imagination ? ?
In your sales force , will a smaller number of higher-priced , high-quality salesmen serve you best , or can you make out better with a larger number of lower-paid salesmen ? ?
Will your trade customers settle for less attention and fewer frills in return for some benefit they can share ? ?
In one company covering the country with a high-quality sales force of 10 men , the president personally phones each major account every 6 mos. .
As a result , distribution costs were cut , customer relations improved .
Distribution costs are almost bound to increase in the sixties -- and you will never know what you can do to control them unless you study each element and experiment with alternative ways of doing the job .
Higher costs of advertising and promotion .
From the manufacturer's point of view , the increasing cost of advertising and promotion is a very real problem to be faced in the sixties .
It is accentuated by the need for pre-selling goods , and private label competition .
How much fundamental thinking and research has your company done on its advertising program ? ?
Are you following competition willy-nilly -- trying to match dollar for dollar -- or are you experimenting with new means for reaching and influencing consumers ? ?
Have you evaluated the proper place of advertising and all phases of promotion in your total marketing program -- from the standpoint of effort , money , and effectiveness ? ?
Increasing tempo of new product development .
Practically all forecasts mention new and exciting products on the horizon .
Will you be out in the market place with some of these sales-building new products ? ?
If competition beats you to it , this exciting new product era can have real headaches in store .
On the other hand , the process of obsoleting an old product and introducing the new one is usually mighty expensive .
As markets become larger and marketing more complex , the costs of an error become progressively larger .
Is your R & D or product development program tuned in to the commercial realities of the market ? ?
Are there regular communications from the field , or meetings of sales and marketing personnel with R & D people ? ?
Technical knowledge is a wonderful thing , but it's useless unless it eventually feeds the cash register .
Are there individuals in your organization who can shepherd a new product through to commercialization ; ;
who can develop reliable estimates of sales volume , production , and distribution costs ; ;
and translate the whole into profit and loss and balance sheet figures which management can act on with some assurance ? ?
We have seen good new products shelved because no one had the assignment to develop such facts and plans -- and management couldn't make up its mind .
3 .
Problems in marketing management
shortage of skilled salesmen .
There is a shortage of salesmen today .
In the future , quantitative demand will be greater because of the expansion of the economy , and the qualitative need will be greater still .
While many companies have done fine work in developing sales personnel , much of it has been product rather than sales training .
Nor has the training been enough in relation to the need .
Most marketing people agree it is going to take redoubled efforts to satisfy future requirements .
Have you estimated your sales manpower needs for the future ( both quantitatively and qualitatively ) ? ?
Has your company developed selection and training processes that are geared to providing the caliber of salesmen you will need in the next 10 yrs. ? ?
Shortage of sales management talent .
With the growing complexity of markets and intensity of competition , sales management , whether at the district , region or headquarters level , is a tough job today -- and it will be tougher in the future .
Men qualified for the broader task of marketing manager are even more scarce due to the demanding combination of qualifications called for by this type of management work .
The growth of business has outdistanced the available supply , and the demand will continue to exceed the supply in the sixties .
Does your company have a program for selecting and developing sales and marketing management personnel for the longer term ? ?
Does your management climate and your management compensation plan attract and keep top-notch marketing people ? ?
Complexity of complete marketing planning .
Every single problem touched on thus far is related to good marketing planning .
`` Hip-pocket '' tactics are going to be harder to apply .
Many food and beverage companies are already on a highly planned basis .
They have to be .
With greater investments in plant facilities , with automation growing , you can't switch around , either in volume or in product design , as much as was formerly possible -- or at least not as economically .
Are planning and strategy development emphasized sufficiently in your company ? ?
We find too many sales and marketing executives so burdened with detail that they are short-changing planning .
Are annual marketing plans reviewed throughout your management group to get the perspective of all individuals and get everyone on the marketing team ? ?
Do you have a long-term ( 5- or 10-yr. ) marketing program ? ?
The key to effective marketing is wrapped up in defining your company's marketing problems realistically .
Solutions frequently suggest themselves when you accurately pinpoint your problems , whether they be in the market , in marketing methods or in marketing management .
If companies will take the time to give objective consideration to their major problems and to the questions they provoke , then a long constructive step will have been taken toward more effective marketing in next decade .
The controversy of the last few years over whether architects or interior designers should plan the interiors of modern buildings has brought clearly into focus one important difference of opinion .
The architects do not believe that the education of the interior designer is sufficiently good or sufficiently extended to compare with that of the architect and that , therefore , the interior designer is incapable of understanding the architectural principles involved in planning the interior of a building .
Ordinary politeness may have militated against this opinion being stated so badly but anyone with a wide acquaintance in both groups and who has sat through the many round tables , workshops or panel discussions -- whatever they are called -- on this subject will recognize that the final , boiled down crux of the matter is education .
It is true that most architectural schools have five year courses , some even have six or more .
The element of public danger which enters so largely into architectural certification , however , would demand a prolonged study of structure .
This would , naturally , lengthen their courses far beyond the largely esthetic demands of interior designer's training .
We may then dismiss the time difference between these courses and the usual four year course of the interior design student as not having serious bearing on the subject .
The real question that follows is -- how are those four years used and what is their value as training ? ?
The American Institute of Interior Designers has published a recommended course for designers and a percentage layout of such a course .
An examination of some forty catalogs of schools offering courses in interior design , for the most part schools accredited by membership in the National Association of Schools of Art , and a further `` on the spot '' inspection of a number of schools , show their courses adhere pretty closely to the recommendations .
One or two of the schools have a five year curriculum , but the usual pattern of American education has limited most of them to the four-year plan which seems to be the minimum in acceptable institutions .
The suggested course of the A.I.D. was based on the usual course offered and on the opinion of many educators as to curricular necessities .
Obviously , the four year provision limits this to fundamentals and much desirable material must be eliminated .
Without comparing the relative merits of the two courses -- architecture versus interior design -- let us examine the educational needs of the interior designer .
To begin with , what is an interior designer ? ?
`` The Dictionary Of Occupational Titles '' published by the U. S. Department of Labor describes him as follows : `` Designs , plans and furnishes interiors of houses , commercial and institutional structures , hotels , clubs , ships , theaters , as well as set decorations for motion picture arts and television .
Makes drawings and plans of rooms showing placement of furniture , floor coverings , wall decorations , and determines color schemes .
Furnishes complete cost estimates for clients approval .
Makes necessary purchases , places contracts , supervises construction , installation , finishing and placement of furniture , fixtures and other correlated furnishings , and follows through to completion of project '' .
In addition to this the U. S. Civil Service Bureau , when examining applicants for government positions as interior designers , expects that `` when various needed objects are not obtainable on the market he will design them .
He must be capable of designing for and supervising the manufacture of any craft materials needed in the furnishings '' .
This seems like a large order .
The interior designer , then , must first be an artist but also understand carpentry and painting and lighting and plumbing and finance .
Yet nobody will question the necessity of all this and any reputable interior designer does know all this and does practice it .
And further he must understand his obligation to the client to not only meet his physical necessities but also to enhance and improve his life and to enlarge the cultural horizon of our society .
Few will quarrel with the aim of the schools or with the wording of their curriculum .
It is in the quality of the teaching of all this that a question may arise .
The old established independent art schools try their best to fulfill their obligations .
Yet even here many a problem is presented ; ;
as in a recent design competition with a floor plan and the simple command -- `` design a luxury apartment '' ; ;
no description of the client or his cultural level , no assertion of geographical area or local social necessities -- simply `` a luxury apartment '' .
Working in a vacuum of minimal information can result only in show pieces that look good in exhibitions and catalogs and may please the public relations department but have little to do with the essence of interior design .
It is possible , of course , to work on extant or projected buildings where either architect or owner will explain their necessities so that the student may get `` the feel '' of real interior design demands .
Unfortunately , the purely synthetic problem is the rule .
It is like medical schools in India where , in that fairy-land of religious inhibition , the dissection of dead bodies is frowned upon .
Instead they learn their dissection on the bulbs of plants .
Thus technical efficiency is achieved at the expense of actual experience .
In the earlier years of training certain phases of the work must be covered and the synthetic problem has its use .
But to continue to divorce advanced students from reality is inexcusable .
Consultation with architects , clients , real estate men , fabric houses and furniture companies is essential to the proper development of class problems just as in actual work .
Fortunately , although only a few years ago they held the student at arms length , today the business houses welcome the opportunity to aid the student , not only from an increased sense of community responsibility but also from the realization that the student of today is the interior designer of tomorrow -- that the student already is `` in the trade '' .
Even the `` history of furniture '' can hardly be taught exclusively from photographs and lantern slides .
Here , too , the reality of actual furniture must be experienced .
The professional organizations such as American Institute of Interior Designers , National Society of Interior Designers , Home Fashions League and various trade associations , can and do aid greatly in this work .
Certainly every educator involved in interior design should be a member and active in the work of one of these organizations .
Not only should every educator above the rank of instructor be expected to be a member of one of the professional organizations , but his first qualification for membership as an educator should be so sharply scrutinized that membership would be equivalent to certification to teach the subject .
Participation for the educator in this case , however , would have to be raised to full and complete membership .
The largest of these organizations at present denies to the full time educator any vote on the conduct and standards of the group and , indeed , refuses him even the right to attach the customary initials after his name in the college catalog .
This anomalous status of the educator cannot fail to lower his standing in the eyes of the students .
The professor in turn dares not tolerate the influence in his classes of an organization in the policies and standards of which he has no voice .
This seems somewhat shortsighted since if the absolute educational qualifications for membership which the organizations profess are ever enforced , the educator will have the molding of the entire profession in his hands .
In one way the Institutes and Societies do a disservice to the schools .
That is in the continuance of the `` grandfather clauses '' in their membership requirements .
When these groups were first formed many prominent and accomplished decorators could not have had the advantage of school training since interior design courses were rare and undeveloped during their youth .
Long hard years of `` on the job '' training had brought them to their competence .
The necessity of that day has long disappeared .
There is plenty of opportunity for proper education today .
It is discouraging for students to realize that the societies do not truly uphold the standards for which they are supposed to stand .
The reason and the day of `` grandfather clauses '' has long since passed .
No one can deny that these `` back door '' admissions to membership provisions have been seriously abused nor that they have not resulted in the admission of downright incompetents to membership in supposedly learned societies .
Beyond any question of curriculum and approach to subject must be the quality of the teachers themselves .
It will occur to anyone that the teacher must have adequate education , a depth and breadth of knowledge far beyond the immediate necessities of his course plus complete dedication to his subject and to his students .
The local decorator who rushes in for a few hours of teaching may but more likely may not have these qualifications .
Nor will the hack , the Jack-of-all-trades , still found in some of the smaller art schools , suffice .
Only a few years ago a middle western college circulated a request for a teacher of interior design .
At the end of its letter was the information that applicants for this position `` must also be prepared to teach costume design and advertising art '' .
This kind of irresponsibility toward their students can scarcely build a strong professional attitude in the future designer .
We must build a corps of highly professional teachers of interior design who have had education , experience in the profession and are willing to take on the usual accompaniments of teaching -- minimal income and minimal status among their confreres .
Considerable specialization in teaching subjects such as architecture , furniture design , textiles and color is also desirable .
In all `` degree '' courses in interior design a number of `` academic '' or `` general studies '' courses are included .
It is only fair to demand that teachers of courses in English , history , psychology and so on be as well informed in matters of art , especially interior design , as are the art teachers educated in the academic subjects .
The proper correlation of the art with the academic can be achieved only if this standard is observed .
The matter of sympathy of the academic professors for art objectives also must be taken into account .
One technical question of school organization comes to mind here .
For proper accreditation of schools , teachers in any course must have a degree at least one level above that for which the student is a candidate .
Since there are almost no schools in the country offering graduate work in interior design this rule cannot at present be observed .
Indeed , it has only been a matter of the last few years that reputable schools of art have granted degrees at all .
The question , however , cannot be ignored for long .
The basic problem involved is that a college setting up a graduate school must have an entirely separate faculty for the advanced degree .
Most professors in the course must , naturally , again have a higher degree than the course offers .
One solution is the aquisition of degrees in education but it is a poor substitute .
It is a sort of academic ring-around-a-rosy and you solve it .
This brings us to the question of accreditation of art schools in general .
Only the independent art schools , that is , those not connected with any university or college , receive severe and separate investigation before accreditation by the various regional organizations .
It has been the custom for most universities to stretch the blanket of accreditation for their liberal arts school to cover the shivering body of their fine arts department .
This , plus the habit of many schools of simply adding interior design to the many subjects of their home economics department , yet , nevertheless , claiming that they teach interior design , has contributed to the low repute of many university courses in interior design .
In spite of this , many universities offer adequate and even distinguished courses in the subject .
There will be no mitigation of these offences until all art schools , whether independent or attached to universities have separate accreditation -- as do medical schools -- by an art accreditation group such as the `` National Association of Schools of Art '' .
Independent art schools granting degrees must , naturally , follow this with academic accreditation by the appropriate regional group .
General
How long has it been since you reviewed the objectives of your benefit and service program ? ?
Have you permitted it to become a giveaway program rather than one that has the goal of improved employee morale and , consequently , increased productivity ? ?
What effort do you make to assess results of your program ? ?
Do you measure its relation to reduced absenteeism , turnover , accidents , and grievances , and to improved quality and output ? ?
Have you set specific objectives for your employee publication ? ?
Is it reaching these goals ? ?
Is it larger or fancier than you really need ? ?
Are you using the most economical printing methods , paper , etc. .
Are there other , cheaper communications techniques that could be substituted ? ?
Has your attitude toward employee benefits encouraged an excess of free `` government '' work in your plant ? ?
Is your purchasing agent offering too much free-buying service for employees ? ?
When improvements are recommended in working conditions -- such as lighting , rest rooms , eating facilities , air-conditioning -- do you try to set a measure of their effectiveness on productivity ? ?
When negotiating with your union , do you make sure employees have a choice between new benefits and their cents-per-hour cost in wages .
Can you consider restricting any additional employee benefits to those paid for by profit-sharing money , such as was done in the union contract recently signed by American Motors Corporation ? ?
Insurance
Do your employees understand all the benefits to which your insurance entitles them ? ?
Are they encouraged to take full legal advantage of these benefits ? ?
Have you publicized the cents-per-hour value of the company's share of insurance premiums ? ?
When did you last compare your present premium costs with the costs of insurance from other sources ? ?
Can your insurance company aid you in reducing administrative costs ? ?
Do you try to maintain the principle of employee-contributed ( as opposed to fully company-paid ) programs ? ?
Holidays , time off , overtime
Do you protect your holiday privileges with an attendance requirement both before and after the holiday ? ?
Do you plan to limit additional holidays to area and/or industrial patterns ? ?
Have you investigated the possibility of moving midweek holidays forward to Monday or back to Friday in order to have an uninterrupted work week ? ?
Are you carefully policing wash-up time and rest periods to be certain that all other time is productive ? ?
Are you watching work schedules for boiler operators , guards , and other 24-hour-day , 7-day-week operations in order to minimize overtime ? ?
Are you careful to restrict the number of people on leave at one time so that your total employment obligation is minimized ? ?
Plant feeding facilities
Have you considered using vending equipment to replace or reduce the number of cafeteria employees ? ?
What are the possibilities for operating your cafeteria for a single shift only and relying upon vending machines or prepackaged sandwiches for the second- and third-shift operations ? ?
Have you checked the cost of subcontracting your cafeteria operation in order to save administrative costs ? ?
Are there possibilities of having cafeteria help work part-time on custodial or other jobs ? ?
Can staggered lunch periods relieve the capacity strain on your feeding facilities ? ?
Would it be feasible to limit the menu in order to reduce feeding costs ? ?
Have you considered gradual withdrawal of subsidies to your in-plant feeding operation ? ?
Are you utilizing cafeteria space for company meetings or discussions ? ?
Recreation facilities
Are your expenses in this area commensurate with the number of employees who benefit from your program ? ?
Have you audited your program recently to weed out those phases that draw least participation ? ?
Do employees contribute their share of money to recreational facilities ? ?
Have you considered delegating operational responsibility to your employee association and carefully restricting your plant's financial contribution ? ?
Could an employee's garden club take over partial care of plant grounds ? ?
Would a camera club be useful in taking pictures pertinent to plant safety ? ?
Are you spending too much money on team uniforms that benefit only a few employees ? ?
Are you underwriting expensive team trips ? ?
Are you utilizing vending machine proceeds to help pay for your program ? ?
Transportation and parking
Do you know the trend in your cost of maintaining access roads and parking lots ? ?
If you use parking attendants , can they be replaced by automatic parking gates ? ?
Will your local bus company erect and/or maintain the bus stops at your plant ? ?
If you provide inter-plant transportation , can this be replaced by available public transportation ? ?
If you use company transportation to meet trains or to haul visitors , would taxis be cheaper ? ?
How efficient and necessary are your intra-company vehicles ? ?
Can they be re-scheduled ? ?
Can part-time drivers be assigned to other productive work ? ?
Paid vacations
Which is more economical for your plant -- a vacation shutdown or spaced vacations that require extra employees for vacation fill-ins ? ?
Can vacations be spaced throughout the 12 months to minimize the number of employee fill-ins ? ?
Do you insist that unneeded salary employees take their vacations during plant shutdowns ? ?
What can your sales and purchasing departments do to curtail orders , shipments , and receipts during vacation shutdown periods ? ?
Retirement
Is an arbitrary retirement age of 65 actually costing your plant money ? ?
What sort of effort do you make to assure that older or disabled workers are fully productive ? ?
Would early retirement of non-productive , disabled employees reduce the number of make-work jobs ? ?
Will your union accept seniority concessions in assigning work for older or disabled employees ? ?
Medical and health
Can you share medical facilities and staff with neighboring plants ? ?
If you have a full-time doctor now , can he be replaced with a part-time doctor or one who serves on a fee-per-case basis only ? ?
Can your plant nurse be replaced by a trained first-aid man who works full-time on some other assignment ? ?
Do you rigidly distinguish between job- and non-job-connected health problems and avoid treating the latter ? ?
Are you indiscriminantly offering unnecessary medical services -- flu shots , sun lamp treatments , etc. ? ?
If you have an annual or regular physical examination program , is it worth what it is costing you ? ?
A program to fit your needs
Consider what you can afford to spend and what your goals are before setting up or revamping your employee benefit program .
Too many plant officials are all too eager to buy a package program from an insurance company simply because it works for another plant .
But even if that other plant employs the same number of workers and makes the same product , there are other facts to consider .
How old is your working force ? ?
What's your profit margin ? ?
In what section of the country are you located ? ?
Are you in a rural or urban area ? ?
These factors can make the difference between waste and efficiency in any benefit program .
Above all , don't set up extravagant fringe benefits just to buy employee good will .
Unions stress fringe benefits , but the individual hourly worker prefers cash every time .
Aim to balance your employee benefit package .
Some plants go overboard on one type of fringe -- say a liberal retirement plan -- and find themselves vulnerable elsewhere .
They're asking for union trouble .
Communications
If you want credit for your employee services program , let your workers know what they're entitled to .
Encourage them to exercise their benefits .
This can be done by stories in your house organs , posters , special publications , letters to workers' homes as well as by word of mouth through your chain of command .
Some companies find a little imagination helpful .
Hallmark Cards , Inc. , Kansas City , Mo. , has a do-it-yourself quiz game called `` Benefit Bafflers '' , which it distributes to employees .
M & R Dietetic Laboratories , Inc. , Columbus , gives all its workers a facsimile checkbook -- each check showing the amount the company spends on a particular fringe .
U. S. Rubber Company , New York , passes out a form itemizing the value of benefits .
The blue-collar worker thus knows his insurance package , for example , costs $227.72 .
Insurance
Have the insurance company or your own accounting department break down the cost of your insurance package periodically .
You may find certain coverage costing much more than is economically feasible , thereby alerting you to desirable revisions .
Check to see if some of your benefits -- such as on-the-job disability pay -- can be put on a direct payment rather than an insured basis at a savings to you .
Use deductable insurance wherever feasible .
It can put an end to marginal claims which play havoc with your insurance rates .
Also , beware of open-end policies , especially in the medical field .
This will mean that every time there's an increase in hospital rates your cost will go up in like manner .
Put a dollar-and-cents limit on benefits .
Don't go overboard on insurance that pays benefits only upon death .
Generally , your employee will greatly appreciate benefits that protect him during his working life or during retirement .
Special time off
In granting bereavement leaves , specify the maximum time off and list what the worker's relation to the deceased must be to qualify .
Thus , you avoid headaches when an employee wants off for his fourth cousin's funeral .
Also , reserve the right to demand proof of death despite the fact that you'll probably never use it .
Coffee breaks can be a real headache if not regulated .
Vending machines can alleviate the long hike to the cafeteria during the break with resulting waste of production time .
If coffee is sold at the cafeteria , let a few workers in each department get it for the whole group .
Consider installing supplemental serving lines in production areas .
Make sure milk for the coffee is placed in dispensers rather than in containers , if you are supplying the coffee .
Otherwise , you may be saddled with a good-size milk bill by milk drinkers .
Retirement policies
Keep the retirement age flexible so skilled craftsmen such as tool and die makers can be kept on the job for the convenience of the company .
And so deadheads on the payroll can be eased out at the earliest possible age .
Make sure you have minimum age and time-on-the-job requirements tied into your pension plan .
Younger men usually don't think of pensions as an important job benefit factor anyhow and they're liable to change jobs several times before settling down .
Choose carefully between contributory or non-contributory pension plans .
There are two sides of a coin for this decision .
Workers usually think more of a plan they contribute to .
And they can at least collect the money they put in , plus interest , when they leave the company .
A non-contributory plan usually won't pay off for the worker until he retires .
Thus , there is an added incentive to stay on the job .
Holidays
Make sure you don't pay for holidays that occur when an employee would not otherwise be working .
These include : leaves of absences , illnesses , and layoffs .
Consider adopting a system of holidays in which time off is granted with an eye to minimum inconvenience to the operation of the plant .
It's usually not too hard to sell workers on this as it gives them longer holiday periods .
For example , the Friday after Thanksgiving can be substituted for Washington's birthday .
This reduces the number of expensive plant shutdowns and startups .
Require each employee to work his last shift both before and after the holiday to be eligible for pay .
This cuts the absentee rate .
Eating facilities
Consider using vending machines rather than subsidized cafeterias .
Latest models serve hot meals at reasonable prices , and at a profit to you .
If a concessionaire runs the cafeteria , keep an eye out for quality and price .
If the soup tastes like dishwater , your employees won't blame the concessionaire .
You'll take the rap .
Check your cafeteria location to make sure it's convenient for most employees .
You may save valuable production minutes with a change .
Vacations
Spread your vacation period over the widest possible span of time or shut the plant down for two weeks .
This will cut the expense of vacation replacements .
And with the shutdown method there will be no argument as to who gets the choice vacation dates .
Also make sure you have reasonable requirements as to hours worked before a production employee is entitled to a vacation .
You might try providing standard vacation time off but make the vacation pay depend on the number of hours worked in the previous year .
The long and ever-increasing column of sportsmen is now moving into a new era .
Modern times have changed the world beyond recognition .
The early years of the twentieth century seem very far away .
But with all the changes in philosophy , dress and terrain -- a few things remain constant , including the devotion of Americans to the great field sports , hunting and fishing .
As the generations move on , clothes become more suitable for the enjoyment of outdoor sports .
Sporting firearms change , markedly for the better .
Just as modern transportation has outmoded the early Studebaker covered wagon , the demand of today's sportsmen and women has necessitated changes in their equipment .
The American firearms and ammunition manufacturers through diligent research and technical development have replaced the muzzle loader and slow-firing single-shot arms with modern fast firing auto-loaders , extremely accurate bolt , lever , and slide action firearms .
And millions of rounds of entirely new and modern small-arms ammunition , designed for today's hunting and target shooting .
And due to modern resource-use and game management practices , there is still game to shoot , even with the ever-expanding encroachment on land and water .
Present conservation practices regard wildlife , not as an expendable natural resource , but as an annual harvest to be sown and also reaped .
Unlimited game bags are possible and legal in more than 40 states , on shooting preserves ( one of the newer phases of modern game-management ) for five and six months each year .
Close to two million game birds were harvested on 1,500 commercial and private shooting preserves , and on State Game Commission-controlled upland game areas during the 1960-61 season .
The shooting development program of the Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers' Institute has successfully published these facts in all major outdoor magazines , many national weeklies and the trade papers .
The most effective way to develop more places for more sportsmen to shoot is to encourage properly managed shooting preserves .
This has been the aim of the director of the shooting development program , the New York staff of the Sportsmen's Service Bureau , and the SAAMI shooting preserve field consultants since the start of the program in 1954 .
Following the kick-off of SAAMI's shooting development program in 1954 , a most interesting meeting took place in Washington , D.C. .
The group known as the American Association for Health , , Physical Education , and Recreation ( a division of the National Education Association ) initiated a conference which brought together representatives of the National Rifle Association , SAAMI and the American Fishing Tackle Manufacturers .
This meeting was called to determine how these groups might cooperate to launch what is known as the Outdoor Education Project .
The Outdoor Education Project took cognizance of the fact , so often overlooked , that athletic activities stressed in most school programs have little or no relationship to the physical and mental needs and interests of later life .
The various team sports assuredly have their place in every school , and they are important to proper physical development .
But with the exception of professional athletes , few contact sports and physical education activities in our schools have any carryover in the adult life of the average American man or woman .
Following a vigorous campaign of interpretation and leadership development by OEP director Dr. Julian Smith , today thousands of secondary schools , colleges and universities have shooting and hunting education in their physical education and recreation programs .
SAAMI's financial support since 1955 has contributed to the success of this project in education .
Personnel assigned through the shooting development program have proudly participated in over 53 state and regional workshops , at which hundreds of school administrators , teachers , professors , and recreational leaders have been introduced to Outdoor Education .
Considering that the current school-age potential is 23 million youths , the project and its message on hunting and shooting education have many more to reach .
In 1959 SAAMI's shooting development program announced a new activity designed to expose thousands of teen-age boys and girls to the healthy fun enjoyed through the participation in the shooting sports .
This program is now nationally known as `` Teen Hunter Clubs '' .
Teen Hunter Clubs were initially sponsored by affiliated members of the Allied Merchandising Corporation .
The first program was sponsored by Abraham & Strauss , Hempstead , New York , under the direction of Special Events director Jennings Dennis .
Other pilot programs were conducted by A & S , Babylon , New York ; ;
J. L. Hudson , Detroit ; ;
Joseph Horne , Pittsburgh .
Other THC activities followed , conducted by shopping centers , department stores , recreation equipment dealers , radio-TV stations , newspapers , and other organizations interested in the need existing to acquaint youngsters with the proper use of sporting firearms and the development of correct attitudes and appreciations related to hunting and wise use of our natural resources .
SAAMI's field men have served as consultants and/or have participated in 75 Teen Hunter Club activities which have reached over 40,000 enthusiastic young Americans .
Through the efforts of SAAMI's shooting development program these shooting activities , and many others , including assists in the development of public and privately financed shooting parks , trap and skeet leagues , rifle and pistol marksmanship programs have been promoted , to mention only a few .
The continuation and expansion of the shooting development program will assure to some degree that national and community leaders will be made aware of the ever-growing need for shooting facilities and activities for hunting and shooting in answer to public demand .
While individual sportsmen are aware of this situation , too many of our political , social , educational and even religious leaders too often forget it .
Help is needed from dealers , at the grass-roots level .
The American gun and ammunition producers sponsor a successful promotional program through their industry trade association .
Since SAAMI's conception in 1926 , and more specifically since the adoption of the Shooting Development Program in 1954 , millions of dollars and promotional man-hours have gone into the development of more places to shoot for more youths and adults .
We trust that you , as a gun and ammunition dealer , have benefited through additional sales of equipment .
Are you getting top dollar from the shooting sports ? ?
Are you looking ahead to the exploding market of millions of American boys and girls , who will grow up to enjoy a traditional American way of life -- ranging the fields with a fine American gun and uniformly excellent ammunition ? ?
Is your sporting firearms and ammunition department primed for the expanding horizons ? ?
Would you like to organize Teen Hunters Clubs , shooting programs , and have information on seasons including six months of hunting with unlimited game bags on shooting preserves ? ?
Ask Sammy Shooter .
We were camping a few weeks ago on Cape Hatteras Campground in that land of pirates , seagulls and bluefish on North Carolina's famed Outer Banks .
This beach campground with no trees or hills presents a constant camping show with all manner of equipment in actual use .
With the whole camp exposed to view we could see the variety of canvas shelters in which Americans are camping now .
There were umbrella tents , wall tents , cottage tents , station wagon tents , pup tents , Pop tents , Baker tents , tents with exterior frames , camper trailers , travel trailers , and even a few surplus parachutes serving as sunshades over entire family camps .
Moving around camp we saw all kinds of camp stoves , lanterns , coolers , bedding , games , fishing tackle , windbreaks and sunshades .
We saw similar displays in the other three campgrounds in this 70-mile-long National Seashore Recreation Area .
Dealers would do well to visit such a campground often , look at the equipment and talk with the campers .
Here you begin to appreciate the scope of the challenges and possibilities facing the industry .
Camping is big and getting bigger .
No one knows where it will stop .
Almost every official who reflects on it thinks this movement of Americans to canvas dwellings opens one of the most promising of all outdoor markets .
You read various guesses on how many Americans are camping .
The number depends on who is talking at the moment .
The figures range as high as 15 million families .
I've heard 10 million mentioned often , but I'm more inclined to think there may be a total of some five to seven million families camping .
Seven million families would total 30 million Americans or more .
Consider the equipment needed to protect this many from the weather , to make their cooking easy and their sleeping comfortable .
More campers than campsites
Harassed state park officials often have more campers than they know what to do with .
They are struggling to meet the demand for camping space , but families are being turned away , especially on holiday weekends .
The National Parks , always popular camping places , are facing the same pressure .
The National Park Service hopes by 1966 to have 30,000 campsites available for 100,000 campers a day -- almost twice what there are at present .
The U.S. Forest Service cares for hundreds of thousands of campers in its 149 National Forests and is increasing its facilities steadily .
But the campers still come .
They bring their families and tents and camp kitchens and bedding .
They bring their fishing rods and binoculars and bathing suits .
They come prepared for family fun because Americans in ever-growing numbers are learning that here is the way to a fine economical vacation that becomes a family experience of lasting importance .
Why they keep coming
There are a half dozen reasons helping to account for the migration to the campgrounds .
Among them , according to the U.S. Department of Commerce , are : ( 1 ) shorter work weeks , ( 2 ) higher pay , ( 3 ) longer paid vacations , ( 4 ) better transportation , ( 5 ) earlier retirement , and ( 6 ) more education .
The more people learn about their country , the more they want to learn .
Camping is family fun , and it is helping more Americans see more of the country than they ever saw before .
But make no mistake about it , the first reason people turn to camping is one of economy .
Here is the promise of a vacation trip they can afford .
The American Automobile Association , computing the cost for two people to vacation by automobile , comes up with an average daily expenditure figure of $29 .
The AAA then splits it down this way : $10.50 for meals , $9.50 for lodging , $7 for gas and oil , and $2 for tips and miscellaneous .
What does the camping couple do to this set of figures ? ?
The $9.50 for lodging they save .
Because they prepare their own meals they also keep in their pockets a good portion of that $10.50 food bill along with most of the tip money .
The automobile expenses are about the only vacationing cost they can't either eliminate or pare down drastically by camping along the way .
Where Americans used to think of a single vacation each summer , they now think about how many vacations they can have .
Long weekends enable many to get away from home for three or four days several times a year .
And even if they stay in resorts part of the time , they might , if the right salesman gets them in tow , develop a yearning to spice the usual vacation fare with a camping trip into the wide open spaces .
It would be a mistake to sell those thousands of beginning campers on the idea they're buying the comforts of home .
They're not .
Home is the place to find the comforts of home .
They're buying fun and adventure and family experiences .
But it would also be a mistake for them not to realize how comfortable camping has become .
This is no longer a way of life for the bearded logger and the wandering cowboy .
Today's campers want comforts , and they have them .
And this helps explain why so many people are now going camping .
It's fun , and it's easy -- so easy that there is time left after cooking , and tent keeping , for the women to get out and enjoy outdoor fun with their families .
Camp meals are no great problem .
Neither are beds , thanks to air mattresses and sleeping bags .
Neither are shelters , because there is one to meet the needs of every camper or prospective camper .
But there is still the sometimes complex problem of helping campers choose the best equipment for their individual needs .
Throughout history , the man who showed superior performance has become the commander of others -- for good or bad .
Since the Industrial Revolution , when factories emerged , this classical pattern has been followed .
Until recently .
There have always been tales of disillusionment -- the competent technician who became an administrator , willingly or not , and found he didn't like it ; ;
the scientist who rebelled against the personnel and paper work ; ;
and much more commonly in recent years , the engineer who found that other duties interfered with -- or eliminated -- his engineering contributions .
There have been many extremely competent men who have been converted into very incompetent managers or submerged in paper work , to their own and the public's dissatisfaction and loss .
This has been more evident since our products have incorporated astronomically increased technology .
The remedies have been many and varied -- attempts to teach management techniques -- either in plant , at special schools , or in university `` crash '' courses -- provision of management-trained assistants or associates .
But the realization has been growing that these are not the complete answer .
Some men have no talent for or interest in management ; ;
forcing them into management can only create trouble .
The old shop adage still holds : `` A good mechanic is usually a bad boss '' .
Yet our economy clings inexorably to recognition of managerial status as the gage of success .
Labor fights to change its collar from blue to white .
All grades of management seek more resounding titles and incomes because of social pressures .
As several recent books have over-emphasized , we have become the most status-conscious nation in the world .
What can be done for the `` individual contributor '' who is extremely important -- and likely to be more so -- in the operation of the technically oriented company ? ?
He is usually conscious of the social pressures at home and outside ; ;
usually concerned about America's belief that attainment and success are measured in dollars and titles .
Yet titles are traditionally given only to management men , and income tends to rise with title .
Even the college professor in America has been affected .
It is , as one engineer says , `` indeed a difficult thing for the engineer to accept that he can go as far on his technical merit as he could employing managerial skills .
This difficulty arises even though we can give examples of men who have actually followed this course .
This leads one to conclude , as you have , that there is inevitably more prestige in a management position in the minds of our people '' .
Nobody should be more able to answer the questions on this score than engineering vice-presidents and chief engineers .
So we asked such men in major companies in the design field to offer their opinions on the `` dual-road-up '' problem -- and more importantly -- their solutions .
In the paragraphs that follow , we quote from 32 men who are identified on the final page .
First : what title , what setup ? ?
Among the more familiar plans for dual-channel advancement is that of General Electric .
This is not a mutually exclusive plan ; ;
there is no one point in a man's career at which he must select either the technical or the managerial path upward .
Further , the management path does not open the door to higher opportunities than are offered by the more technical path .
It is common to shift back and forth , working up through a number of supervisory and individual-contributor positions .
Actually , there are a number of individual-contributor positions in both operating departments and in the company-wide `` services '' operation that are filled by men with successful managerial experience who are currently broadening their capabilities .
Also , moving into a managerial position does not necessarily end a man's recognition as a technical expert .
As examples at GE : Glen B. Warren , formerly manager of the Turbine Division , widely recognized as a turbine designer .
The late W. R. G. Baker , a pioneer in television design and long-time vp & gm of the Electronics Division , and later , by his own choice , an individual consultant .
Harold E. Strang , expert in switchgear design , for a long period vp & gm of the Measurements & Industrial Products Division , and who currently , approaching retirement , is vice-president and consulting engineer in the Switchgear & Control Division .
In the GE plan , a number of individual contributors have positions and compensation higher than those of many managers .
These positions carry such titles as :
Consultant , Advanced Development
Consulting Engineer ,
Consulting Engineer , Heat Transfer
Consulting Electrical Engineer ,
Senior Electrical Engineer ,
Senior Physicist .
Westinghouse has a similar system , with two classifications representing various levels of competence on the strictly technical side : consulting engineer or scientist , as the case may be , and advisory engineer or scientist .
Many companies have systems , particularly in R & D , which work more or less well , depending upon size and actual belief in the policy on the part of administration , as will be abundantly apparent in subsequent quotations .
Another factor that may hold hope is for parallel recognition is , as one man says it : `` that the fad for educating top people along managerial lines is yielding to the technically trained approach '' .
Senior staff engineer ? ?
One company instituted , early in 1959 , a vertical classification system consisting of four levels .
There is no formal equivalence to the supervisory ranks ; ;
the top non-supervisory level , senior staff engineer , enjoys status and pay ranging up to that for the second level of engineering supervision .
The second level , senior engineer , rates slightly below first-level supervision .
The expectation is that first-level supervisors will be selected in approximately equal numbers from the second and third engineering level , with very few coming from the first level .
The company expects to extend upward both compensation and status for non-supervisory engineers , but probably not into executive levels .
In this organization , about half of the engineers with 15 or more years of employment are in supervision , engineering or elsewhere .
This reflects the very heavy engineering content of the products -- which are not military .
Several other examples : central and satellite
`` We have over 20 divisions -- each of which has an engineering department headed by a chief engineer .
We have set up a central R & D department , as well as engineering-management departments -- about 80 people working on problems related to those of our plants .
A separate research department is , of course , confined to new or future designs .
Part of this headquarters staff , however , are engineering managers who work between divisional chief engineers and headquarters management .
These headquarters engineers , headed by the vice-president -- Engineering , counsel and advise divisional managers and chief engineers on product problems as well as aid with design ; ;
and many are engineers who have been advanced from the divisions .
These men are considered managers of engineers .
They must learn to wear several hats , so to speak , working with management , sales and engineering problems related to the product .
`` We do not have people in our organization termed ' consultants ' or ' fellows ' , who are specialists in one particular technical subject .
I suppose it is because we are just not big enough .
We have a few ' consultants ' -- retired engineers retained and called in on certain problems .
The only ' fellows ' in our company are those who have been honored by ASME , AIEE or AIChE .
I am sure that the engineer who enters management is nearly always opening the door to greater possibilities than he would have as a technical specialist -- because of his wider accountability '' .
Another structure
`` We have tried to make both paths attractive , so that good men could find opportunity and satisfaction in either .
One way to formalize this is in the job structure .
We have these positions , which compare directly : Af
`` Above these jobs we have chief engineer for the company and vice-president of Engrg , R & Aj .
The latter jobs include major management responsibilities and have been filled by those who have come up primarily through the engineering-management side .
We have not yet succeeded in establishing recognition of technical specialization comparable to our higher levels of management , but I believe we will trend in this direction but not to exceed vice-president '' .
Top job : research scientist
`` .
Approximately four years ago , we initiated a dual ladder of advancement for technical persons .
The highest position is known as a ' research scientist .
This approach has not been entirely satisfactory .
The primary deterrent appears to lie with the technical people themselves , and their concept of what constitutes status in present-day society .
Scientists who agitate hardest for technical recognition are often the most reluctant to accept it .
We have discovered that the outward trappings such as private offices and private secretaries are extremely important ; ;
and although we have attempted to provide these status symbols , support of the ' dual-ladder ' plan has been half-hearted despite the creation of a salary potential for a research scientist commensurate with that of men in top managerial positions .
`` A serious problem accompanying the technical-ladder approach is the difficulty of clearly defining responsibilities and standards of performance for each level .
With no set standards , there is the tendency to promote to the next highest level when the top of a salary band is reached regardless of performance .
Promotion is too often based on longevity and time in salary grade instead of merit .
If no specific organization plan exists limiting the number of scientists at each salary level , the result is a department top-heavy with high-level , high-salaried personnel '' .
Staff engineer dept. manager
`` We have two approaches for the technical man : the position of staff engineer , which is rated as high in salary as department manager ; ;
and an administrative organization to take the routine load away from department managers and project engineers as much as possible , thus allowing them more time for strictly technical work .
These are only halfway measures , and the answer will come when some way is found to allow the technical man in industry to progress without limit in salary and prestige '' .
A complete plan
`` We have made limited application of the ' parallel ladder ' plan .
The highest rated non-supervisory engineering title is ' research engineer .
The salary schedule permits remuneration greater than the average paid to the first level of engineering supervision ( engineering section head ) .
We also have an ' engineering section head -- research engineer ' classification which has salary possibilities equivalent to that of a research engineer .
Above this point there is no generally used parallel ladder .
`` We also do a number of things to build up the prestige of the engineer as a ' professional ' and also to give public recognition to individual technical competence .
These include encouragement of , and assistance to , the engineer in preparation and publication of technical papers .
We have two media for publicizing individual technical activity , a magazine widely distributed both within and without the company , and an information bulletin for engineering personnel distributed to the homes of all engineers .
Publicity is given to the award of patents to our engineers and financial support is provided for individual membership in technical societies .
`` A recent , and more pertinent action , has been the establishment of a technical staff reporting to the vice-president for Engineering .
This function is staffed by engineers chosen for their technical competence and who have the title , member of the technical staff .
Salaries compare favorably with those paid to the first two or three levels of management .
Additional symbols of status are granted , such as reserved parking , distinctive badge passes authorizing special privileges , and a difference in the treatment of financial progress through merit .
`` We presently are involved in inaugurating a new development center .
Operations of this nature offer the best opportunity to recognize scientific status .
All scientific staff members will have the title , ' research-staff member .
The salary level of an individual within the group will reflect the scientific community's acceptance of him as an authority in his scientific field .
Contrary to usual organization-position evaluations , the position to which research-staff members report administratively will not necessarily encompass the duties of the research-staff member , therefore , are not necessarily evaluated as highly .
`` These recent steps do not offer the possibility of extension to the great number of senior engineers who have displayed technical competence .
It is doubtful that the complete solution to the over-all problem can result entirely from company efforts .
Fundamental to the difficulty of creating the desired prestige is the fact that , in the business community , prestige and status are conferred in proportion to the authority that one man has over others and the extent of which he participates in the management functions '' .
Sixty miles north of New York City where the wooded hills of Dutchess County meet the broad sweep of the Hudson River there is a new home development called `` Oakwood Heights '' .
As a matter of fact you could probably find a new home development in every populated county in the country with three-bedroom ranch style cottages in the $14,000 range .
But Oakwood Heights is unique in one particular .
Its oil for heating is metered monthly to each home from a line that starts at a central storage point .
This is a pilot operation sponsored by a new entity chartered in Delaware as the Tri-State Pipeline Corporation , with principal offices in New York State .
Its president is Otis M. Waters , partner in the law firm of Timen & Waters , 540-K Chrysler Bldg. , New York City .
Vice-president is Louis Berkman and the secretary-treasurer is Mark Ritter .
Ritter is the builder of Oakwood Heights and president of Kahler-Craft Distributors , Inc. , Newburgh , N.Y. .
The idea of a central tank with lines to each house is not in itself a novelty .
Not a year goes by but what several local companies in the U.S. and Canada , even overseas , write to Fueloil & Oil Heat to inquire if it's feasible and where it is being done .
Its editors only knew of one example to point to , a public housing development of 278 homes in New Haven described by John Schulz in the March , 1950 issue .
This has survived the years but there has been considerable concern among the tenants over the fact that the oil was not metered .
Rather the monthly total consumption was divided and charged on the basis of number of rooms and persons in the family .
Common complaints included `` Mrs. Murphy '' leaving her windows open all the time , a fresh air fan , or the family was visiting `` Aunt Minnie '' with the house shut up but they still paid the same rate for oil .
As a result of that attitude , others have been discouraged from trying central distribution .
A new low capacity meter is the key that unlocks the situation at Oakwood Heights .
Called a `` Slo-Flo '' meter it was designed for this job by Power Plus Industries of Los Angeles , a key individual being Don Nelson .
Tri-State has acquired its exclusive distribution for the northern , principal heating states .
There's an advantage in having a firm like Tri-State headed by a lawyer .
The earlier New Haven development was public housing , so it easily leaped over the problems met in a private venture .
These have to do with property rights , municipal official attitudes and a host of others .
In working out the practical legal conclusions President Waters was not thinking only of this pilot project , for it is planned to duplicate this program or system in other builder developments nationally .
It is always difficult , or at least time-consuming , to get approval of any kind of line under a public street , as one example .
To overcome this , the builder lays and completes the street himself , then deeds it to the community while retaining a perpetual easement for the oil lines .
When a family buys a home the title is subject to a perpetual easement to Tri-State .
For the central storage , Tri-State buys one acre , Buries its tanks and simply holds permanent title to that piece .
In other words , the whole storage and pipeline system does not belong to the homeowners nor to the town but rather to Tri-State .
How does Tri-State get its revenue from this plan ? ?
It leases the whole facility to a large oil company , at least large enough to have a strong credit position .
This first test is being leased for ten years but future projects will require at least 15 years .
The amount paid by the oil company to Tri-State for the use of its oil distribution system and the privilege of supplying all the homes , is subject to negotiation but naturally must be profitable to both parties .
On this first venture the central storage is 20,000 gallons , in two tanks , or an average of 400 gallons for each of the 50 homes .
The supplier delivers at his convenience in transport loads , so as to maintain two-to-three weeks reserve supply against weather contingencies .
However , that is not all he has to do .
He must undertake complete servicing of the oilheating equipment to assure fine heating .
In the present project the heating is by circulating hot water from Paragon boiler-burner units with summer-winter domestic hot water hookups .
Again , the oil man must read the meters at such intervals as he finds best .
For this first development the supplier signing the lease is a major oil company but in turn the deal is being transferred for operation to its local fueloil distributor .
The major gets the assured gallonage for the life of the lease and the distributor apparently can do well because delivery cost is low .
Initial considerations
The officers of the new corporation have naturally explored many angles , as well as personalities that might be affected .
For example , the officials of Poughkeepsie town ( township ) where the project is located think highly of it because it simplifies their snow clearing problem .
The central storage is near a main artery quite easy to reach with large transports on a short crescent swing , with fewer trucks in the residential streets .
The Public Service Commission has ruled that this is not a public utility , subject to their many regulations .
Several financial institutions , both banks and insurance companies , have been sounded out .
They like it and would supply most of the capital because of the long term leases by strong oil companies .
The Government housing agencies consider it feasible with one special stipulation .
There must be a restriction in the deed to provide that the customer may not be charged more than the current market price for the oil , an obvious precaution , since the account is permanently wedded , just like with gas or electricity .
For a few details of the system the lines are 1-1/4'' '' X-Tru-Coat , a product of Republic Steel Corp. , and all lines are welded .
They are laid a minimum of 24'' '' deep and in some areas four feet down , particularly under roads , to stay clear of all other piping such as water and sewers and to minimize shocks from heavy trucking .
The meter is mounted high on the basement wall .
Its figures are a half inch high and very easy to read , even into tenth gallons .
It will accommodate firing rates as low as a half gallon an hour .
Ritter , the builder , is convinced that the total cost of all the heating systems plus the oil distribution system is no greater than would be gas heating systems in the houses plus their lines and meters .
He believes that this is a sound approach to gas competition in builder developments where gas is available .
It would be pretty difficult to install a Tri-State system in old neighborhoods , and that's an understatement .
The job of getting property easements and street easements and the acre for the tanks would become pretty discouraging .
But in a new development where everything starts from scratch the solutions are simple .
Future plans
What does Tri-State actually want to do , now that it has the meters under franchise and certain phases of its piping system in the `` patent applied for '' stage ? ?
It wants to interest builders and oil companies in the idea of including its facility in their new home projects , by financing and installing the storage , piping and meters , and leasing these for 15 years , with renewal options , to a strong oil company .
It may also work in one other way -- by licensing its system patents and supplying the meters , letting the oil company or even the builder install the facilities .
This whole development is certain to be of interest to the readers , for the idea has so often been mentioned , somewhat wistfully .
But it's too early yet to go visit Oakwood Heights .
Only eight of the 50 houses were completed at the time of the editor's visit on June 8th ; ;
others were building .
The big tanks were at the site but still sunning themselves .
A big mechanical ditcher was running the trenches , and the town building inspector was paying a friendly , if curious , visit .
The oilheating industry is looking up , led by a revival of research and development .
A primary ingredient in these fields is imagination , and Tri-State Pipeline Corporation deserves a very good mark .
Every year about this time National Gargle Your Cooling System week rolls around .
It pays in the long ( hot ) run to take good care of the water works .
Do it this way for the summer gargle :
First , drain that old coolant down the storm sewer .
Don't save the anti-freeze , even if it the expensive `` permanent '' type .
The word means it won't boil away easily , nothing else .
The rust inhibitors in the fluid are used up after one year , and you don't want to risk the rust that two years' use could mean .
Pitch it out .
If a lot of rust shows in the drain , use a good flushing cleaner .
Then fill the system and add a rust inhibitor .
Of course , you'll want to use the softest water you can in your radiators .
Now , check for leaks in your hoses and hose connections , around the freeze-out plugs , gaskets , water pump seals and heater fittings .
Next , run the engine and let it heat up so the thermostat opens , and then look for leaks again .
Be sure the bugs and dirt are blown out of the radiator fins .
Use the air hose for this job .
Check the temperature gage and be sure it is working .
If you use one of the new year-round cooling system fluids such as `` Dowguard '' be sure to check it .
Dow says that the fluid can be used now for two years .
Check its inhibitor effectiveness before leaving it in during the summer .
Take precautions now , to be sure you avoid those unpleasant and costly heat breakdowns when the temperature zooms this summer .
Don't let your mechanics pull the thermostats out of those fueloil delivery trucks or installation rigs of yours .
Spring and summer may be here officially , but those thermos stay in .
The fact is that removing and leaving out a thermostat from any water cooled vehicle , will greatly increase the fuel consumption , reduce power and contribute to spark plug fouling due to an accumulation of excessive carbon deposits on the insulators .
If you run into excess plug fouling on one truck , check to be sure that the rig has a thermostat .
The thermostat is important to get your engine up to operating temperature quickly , and to keep it running at its most efficient temperature through the proper circulation of the coolant .
Are you paying too much for your truck insurance ? ?
There's a good chance you are doubling on some coverage , not taking discounts coming to you and not cutting some corners that can be cut .
Have a talk with your insurance agent .
Be careful that you keep adequate coverage , but look for places to save money .
First go over the type of coverage you now have .
Look for these features which may mean you can save :
Duplicate coverage .
Avoid doubling up on the same item .
For example , don't pay in a truck policy for medical coverage that you may be paying for in a health and accident policy .
Does your policy have a lay-up clause ? ?
This means that if your insured vehicle is laid up for more than 30 days , insurance can be suspended and a proportionate return of your premium made to you .
This applies to repair work of winter storage .
The figure five is important in insurance .
With many company policies you get a fleet discount if you insure five or more rigs .
This means either cars or trucks .
Discounts run up to 2% of cost .
Usually premium reductions can be obtained by applying deductibles to your liability plan .
For example : If your bodily injury claims start payment after the first $250 , a 25% premium saving is often made .
In the period since the end of World War 2 , -- a period coinciding with merchandising demands for the colorful , the unusual , and the original in signs and displays -- plastics have come on so strong that today they are the acknowledged leaders in the field .
The importance of the sign industry to the plastics industry , however , is not in terms of volume alone .
Designers of signs and displays have shown a refreshing approach to the adaptation of plastics that has influenced the workings of other industries .
Many of today's developments in thermoforming stem from original work done with signs and displays ; ;
the art of preprinting in distortion was similarly perfected by the sign makers ; ;
and the reverse-surface decorating techniques now used for escutcheons , medallions , etc. , owes much to the field , as does the technology of designing with the light-transmitting properties of the transparent plastics .
There is much that many industries can continue to learn from some of the more recent developments described below .
The concept of trans-illumination ( as shown by the photo on p. 92 ) , as just one example , offers an entirely new approach to lighting problems -- no matter what industry is involved .
A volume market
According to a recent Wall Street Journal survey , plastics units now account for more than 50% of all sign sales .
Five years ago , they had only 10% of the market , with the remainder firmly entrenched in the stronghold of neon tubing .
And it's far from the end for plastics .
Industry sources are now estimating that 75% of the signs made during the 1960's will be of plastic construction .
Evidence of this trend can best be seen in the recent activities of such leading companies in the field as Advance Neon Sign Co. , Los Angeles , Calif. .
Four years ago , the company's entire line was devoted to neon signs ; ;
today , 85% is in plastics .
From the volume standpoint , the total market represented by the sign industry is impressive .
Aggregate sales during 1960 reached approximately $500 million .
Currently , there are some 6000 companies in the field , ranging from small firms with a handful of employees to major concerns having complete facilities for production of metal , electrical , and plastic components .
Why the trend to plastics ? ?
What accounts for the rapid growth of plastics in the sign and display field ? ?
Out of many factors which might be cited , five are most important : 1 .
Plastics combine such properties as built-in color , light weight , optional transparency or translucency , resistance to corrosion , as well as the ease of fabrication .
2 .
Plastic signs are economical .
According to one major producer , materials for a typical plastic sign are approximately 25% less costly than for a comparable neon unit .
Shipping cost is also reduced ; ;
a 3-by-6-ft. plastic sign weighs about 120 lb. , compared to 275-300 lb. for neon .
The weight advantage , plus greater durability of the plastic unit , yields a saving of about one-fifth in shipping .
The lighter weight also means less costly supports and mountings are needed .
Finally , maintenance costs on plastic signs are much lower than on fragile neon signs .
3 .
They offer exceptional design freedom , making it possible to incorporate contours and details which give free range to the talents of the designer .
Vacuum- and pressure-formed sheet plastics fill the gap between cardboard and molded plastics .
Pre-decoration , low-cost molds , and the freedom to form large and small , thick and thin materials make plastics tailor-made for the industry .
4 .
Plastic signs work around the clock .
Internal illumination , protected from the elements , gives them powerful visual appeal at night ; ;
during daylight hours their brilliant colors command attention and interest .
5 .
Advances in equipment and fabrication techniques give the sign or display manufacturer an extremely wide choice of production techniques , ranging from injection molding for intricate , smaller-size , mass-production signs ( generally 5000 units is the minimum ) to vacuum and pressure forming for larger signs of limited runs .
Among the newest fabrication methods to enter the display field are expandable styrene molding and blow molding .
What plastics to use ? ?
For outdoor signs and displays , acrylic , with its outstanding optical characteristics , weather resistance and formability , strongly dominates the picture .
At present , both the familiar cast acrylic and the newer extruded sheets are being used by sign manufacturers , with extruded now representing an estimated 10% of the total .
( See panel , p. 166 , for a comparison .
)
Of interest is a recent announcement by Du Pont's Polychemicals Dept. of a new methyl methacrylate monomer designated as Monocite H 100 , which was developed specifically for production of cast acrylic sheets for the sign and lighting industry .
Sheeting cast from this material reportedly weighs only one-third as much as glass , is impervious to all kinds of weather , and will not yellow .
Its high impact strength , even at low temperatures , resists chipping , cracking , and crazing , according to Du Pont .
Cellulose acetate butyrate is used extensively for vacuum-formed signs , background panels , and molded or formed letters because of its exceptional toughness , ease of forming , and excellent weathering properties .
Its clarity and good optical properties are other important factors .
New to the field is a duplex type butyrate laminate in which the two sheets of the laminate are of different color .
Thermoforming the laminate and then sanding away the top layer is a quick and economical way to produce a two-color sign .
( see MPl , Mar. 1961 , p. 98 ) .
For specialized types of displays , such as large three-dimensional units reproducing a product , package , human or animal figures , etc. , reinforced plastics and rotationally molded vinyl plastisols are other materials frequently used .
A relative newcomer in outdoor signs is Mylar polyester film , now used as a printed overlay for trans-illuminated signs ( see below ) .
For outdoor signs and displays , where the problem of weathering resistance is no longer a factor , the choice of plastics is almost unlimited .
Here may be found regular and impact styrene , cellulose acetate , cellulose butyrate and cellulose propionate , acrylic , vinyl , expandable styrene foam , and polyethylene .
The final choice of material depends upon such factors as costs , method of fabrication , degree of complexity , number of units required , time available for tooling , and projected life expectancy of the unit .
Often , the finished sign or display incorporates several types of plastics and two or more fabricating techniques .
Trans-illuminated billboards
One of the most significant advancements in design of plastics signs is the so-called trans-illuminated billboard , now being produced by several large sign manufacturers such as Advance Neon Sign Co. , Los Angeles , and Industrial Electric Inc. , New Orleans , La. .
The essential difference between the new trans-illuminated boards and existing billboards is that the former , constructed of translucent plastic panels , are lighted from within .
With the source of light behind the copy , there is no loss of lumen output , as with conventional boards illuminated by means of reflected light .
Also , the light sources are shielded from dirt and weather exposure and cannot obstruct the view of the sign .
The copy itself , including any text or illustrations , is reproduced in full color directly on a thin Mylar polyester film by a photo screen process .
The film has an adhesive on the back which permits it to be stripped onto the acrylic panels forming the sign , and also to be stripped off for replacement by new copy as required .
Spare sets of face panels simplify the change from one copy or message to another ; ;
new panels are exchanged for the old right in the field on a single trip .
Panels with outdated copy are returned to the sign shop so a new message can be applied .
Signs of this type have already made their appearance in several larger cities , and others are on the way .
It is believed that these boards will , within the next few years , replace many of the conventional flood-lighted boards now in use .
Trans-illuminated signs also show versatility in other directions .
As used by Industrial Electric Inc. , the film panels are printed one at a time , as are 24-sheet posters .
Thus the film can be applied to back-lighted translucent plastics faces ; ;
they can also be applied to opaque panels for use on cutouts , or they can be applied directly to painted bulletin faces .
In this way , the sign maker has an economical means for displaying uniform copy on different sign media .
Recently Industrial Electric unveiled another new development made possible by modern plastic materials -- a revolving spectacular sign .
Comprised of 16 triangular trans-illuminated plastic sections , it makes it possible to combine three different signs in a single unit .
The triangles automatically revolve in a cycle which permits 9 sec. of viewing time for each poster subject .
Sixteen panels , each slightly more than 1-1/2 ft. wide , make up the 25-ft. length of the sign .
Changeable letters fill many needs
Perhaps the best way to indicate the versatility of design that characterizes the use of plastics in signs and displays would be to look at what is happening in only one of the areas in this complex field -- changeable signs .
Signs are meant to convey a message , and in most cases , this requires words and letters .
Frequently , the message must be changed at intervals to feature new products , price changes , etc. .
The huge market for changeable signs has spurred a universal demand for individual plastic letters , in all shapes and sizes -- and a number of companies are set up to supply them .
Here are some of the newer items currently available :
Poster Products Inc. , Chicago , Ill. : a changeable copy and display sign which consists of an extruded impact styrene background in choice of colors , onto which are mounted snap-in letters , figures , or words screened on acetate or other types of sheet stock .
The background , which is available in various widths and continuous lengths , is extruded with parallel undercut grooves which grip the flexible letters securely .
The Adaptaplex Co. , Beaverton , Ore. : letters molded of butyrate , available in several sizes in either red or black .
Ideal for merchandising use , they are weather-resistant , and have mounting pegs on the back which fit into openings in a vacuum-formed waffle-pattern background panel .
For large letters , e.g. thermoformed of acrylic or butyrate , there are other techniques .
For example , in a typical store installation , fifty 24-in. and six 36-in. red acrylic letters were mounted against a white painted wood background .
The fact that even the larger letters weighed only 5 lb. each made it possible to secure the letters to the building through clear acrylic angle brackets cemented to the letters .
Stainless steel screws were used to minimize corrosion stains .
For mounting to corrugated plastic backgrounds , very small holes may be drilled in the sides of the letters and stainless steel wire threaded through the openings , its ends twisted behind the panels .
Large injection-molded letters are also available for sign installations .
Wagner Sign Service Inc. , Chicago , for example , supplies them in several colors , in heights of 4 , 6 , 8 , 10 , and 17 inches .
They are molded of a special weather-resistant formulation of Tenite butyrate .
Also available from this company are Snug-Grip Plasti-Bars , extruded of transparent acrylic material , which may be cemented to any corrugated acrylic background material .
Made in lengths from 3 to 10 ft. , the bars are shaped in cross section to provide a secure fit for the tapered slots molded in back of the letters .
Still another approach to the changeable letter type of sign is a modular unit introduced by Merritt Products , Azusa , Calif. .
This vacuum formed sign is comprised of 27-in. ( or smaller ) panels formed of 0.080-in. clear butyrate sheet stock , masked and sprayed on the rear side .
Finished signs are produced by sliding the separate letter panels into channels of 0.025-in. aluminum , which may be mounted to various surfaces .
The sheets are extruded of Tenite butyrate by Jet Specialties Co. , Los Angeles , Calif. .
On large-area units , where additional structural requirements are imposed , one recent approach utilizes modular extruded or formed channels ( e.g. right-angled corrugations ) of the acrylic or butyrate .
Joined side by side , such channels make possible construction of continuous two-dimensional luminous areas up to 50 ft. high and of unlimited width .
Letters may be wired to the face of the combined channels , painted on the first surface , or handled in other ways .
New rule no. 2 : :
Don't build from the outside in -- try to build from the inside out
.
Don't insert your components into fixed openings , they may or may not fit ; ;
position your components before you close them in .
For example :
Don't wall in your kitchen before you hang the wall cabinets and set the appliances .
It's a lot quicker and easier to dimension the kitchen to fit the cabinets and erect the end wall after they are all in place .
Set your bathtub before you close in the end of the bathroom .
Don't try to wrestle a 400-lb. tub Af through a narrow doorway .
Finish your plumbing before you frame it in ( most economical framing is a thin non-bearing partition on either side of the pipes ) .
Finish installing and connecting up your furnace and your water heater before you wall them in .
There is no better way to waste time than trying to install a furnace in a finished Af closet .
Don't position your studs before you insert your windows in conventional construction ; ;
that way you may pay more to shim the window into place than you paid for the window .
You can save all that shimming time if you set your windows in one , two , three order -- first the stud on one side , then the window , then the stud on the other side .
Install your disappearing stair ( or stairs ) to the attic and finish your overhead ducts before you drywall the ceiling .
Don't close in your house until everything has been carried in .
Last wall Bob Schmitt erects is the wall between the house and garage .
That way he can truck his parts right indoors and unload them under the roof .
No auto maker would dream of putting the head on the engine before he fitted the pistons in the block .
And trailer makers , those most industrialized and therefore most efficient of homebuilders , say they save hundreds of dollars by always building from the inside out .
New rule no. 3 : rethink everything to get all the big savings the revolution in materials handling offers you
.
This revolution is the biggest build-better-for-less news of all , because : 1 .
It makes it easy to handle much heavier units , so you can plan to build with much bigger and heavier prefabricated components like those shown in the pictures alongside .
2 .
It makes materials handling the only construction cost that ( like earthmoving and roadbuilding ) should be lower today than in 1929 .
3 .
It changes the answers to `` Who should do what , and where '' ? ?
It lessens the need for costly on-site fabrication and increases the chance for shop fabrication , where almost everything can be made better and cheaper .
4 .
It changes the answers on when to do what at the site .
For example , instead of putting in your driveways last ( as many builders do ) you can now save money by putting them in first .
Instead of closing the house in first ( as most builders do ) you can now cut your costs by not closing it in until you have to ( see p 121 ) .
5 .
It changes the answers on builder-dealer relations .
Not so long ago many builders were finding they could cut their costs by `` buying direct '' and short-cutting the dealer .
But now many of these same builders are finding they can cut their costs more by teaming up with a dealer who has volume enough to afford the most efficient specialized equipment to deliver everything just where it is needed -- drywall inside the house , siding along the sides , trusses on the walls , roofing on the roof , etc. .
Says Clarence Thompson : `` We dealers must earn our mark-up by performing a service for the builder cheaper than he could do it himself '' .
The revolution now under way in materials handling makes this much easier .
The revolution is well under way , but much more remains to be done
.
Five years ago a House & Home Round Table cosponsored by the Lumber Dealers' Research Council reported unhappily :
`` Only one lumber dealer in ten is equipped to handle unit loads ; ;
only one box car in eight has the wide doors needed for unit loads ; ;
only one producer in a hundred is equipped to package and ship unit loads ; ;
only one builder in a thousand is equipped to receive unit loads .
`` So from raw materials to finished erection the costs of materials handling ( most of it inefficient ) add up to one-fourth of the total construction cost of housing '' .
`` That House & Home Round Table was the real starting point for today's revolution in materials handling '' , says Clarence Thompson , long chairman of the Lumber Dealers' Research Council .
`` It made our whole industry recognize the need for a new kind of teamwork between manufacturer , carrier , equipment maker , dealer , and builder , all working together to cut the cost of materials handling .
Before that we lumber dealers were working almost single-handed on the problem '' .
Here is where things stand today :
1 .
Almost all of the 3,000 lumber dealers who cater primarily to the new-house market and supply 90% of this year's new houses are mechanized .
There are few areas left where a builder cannot find a dealer equipped to save him money by delivering everything at lower cost just where his workmen will need it .
2 .
Practically all bulky housing products can now be ordered in standard units palletized or unitized for mechanical handling -- including lumber , asphalt shingles , glass block , face brick , plaster , lime , hardboard , gypsum wallboard and sheathing , cement , insulation sheathing , floor tile , acoustical tile , plaster base , and asbestos shingles .
3 .
Truck and materials-handling equipment makers now offer specialized units to meet almost every homebuilding need .
For some significant new items see the pictures .
4 .
More than 50% of all lumber is unitized ; ;
an NLRDA survey found that at least 492 lumber mills will strap their shipments for mechanized handling .
Of these , 376 said they make no extra charge for strapping in standard units , because they save enough on mechanized carloading to offset their strapping cost .
Most of the others will swallow their $.50 to $3 charge rather than lose a good customer .
`` With a 15,500-lb. fork-lift , dealers can unload unitized lumber from wide-door box cars for $.30/mbf compared with $1.65 or more to unload loose lumber one piece at a time '' , says James Wright of Aj .
5 .
Lumber dealers and lumber manufacturers have agreed on a standard unit for unitized shipments -- 48'' '' wide by a nominal 30'' '' high ( or six McCracken packets 24'' '' wide by nominal 7'' '' high ) .
These units make it easy to load as much as 48,000 bd/ft ( say 120,000 lb in a 50' box car ) much more than the average for loose-loaded cars .
6 .
The railroads have responded by adding 20,000 more box cars with doors 12' or wider for forklift unloading ( a 21% increase while the total number of box cars was falling 6% ) and by cutting their freight rates twice on lumber shipped in heavily loaded cars .
First was a 1958 cut of more than 50% on that portion of the load in excess of 40,000 lb ; ;
later came a 1961 cut on the West Coast ( still pending elsewhere ) of $.07/cwt on 70,000 lb-plus carloads ( which works out to more than $4/mbf on that portion of the load in excess of 70,000 lb .
7 .
More unitized lumber is being shipped on flat cars , and NLRDA studies show that flat cars loaded with the new Type 6-B floating-load method can be unloaded for as little as $.054/mbf .
For long hauls these shipments should be protected with water-proof paper .
This costs from $.75 to $2.30/mbf , but the cover can pay off if the lumber is to be stored in the open .
These carriers cut handling costs for the dealer -- and the builder
.
Says NRLDA's James Wright : `` Since 1958 carriers that move material from the yard to the job site have undergone more radical changes than any of the dealer's other equipment '' .
The reason : today's components and lumber packages are far too bulky to be handled by a truckdriver and a helper .
So manufacturers have pioneered a new type of vehicle -- the self-unloading carrier .
It cuts the lumber dealer's cost because it takes only one man -- the driver -- to unload it , and because it unloads in a fraction of the time and at a fraction of the cost of hand unloading .
And it helps the builder because it can handle a more efficiently packaged load , can deliver it to the best spot ( in some cases , right on the roof or inside the house ) , and never takes any of the builder's high-priced labor to help unload it .
Says Wright : `` Our survey shows that one third of the retail dealers plan to increase the mechanization of their materials handling in the coming two years .
And most of the gain will be in self-unloading vehicles '' .
New rule no. 4 : :
Restudy what your men do , to help them waste less of the time you pay for
.
Half the manhours you pay for on most jobs are wasted because the job was not planned right , so the right tools were not handy at the right place at the right time , or the right materials were not delivered to the handiest spots or materials were not stacked in the right order for erection , or you bought cheap materials that took too long to fit , or your workmen had to come back twice to finish a job they could have done on one trip .
Even `` America's most efficient builder '' , Bob Schmitt of Berea , hopes to cut his labor costs another $2,000 per house as a result of the time-&-motion studies now being completed on his operation by industrial efficiency engineers from the Stanley Works .
Already this study has suggested ways to cut his foundation manhours from 170 to 105 by eliminating idle time and wasted motion .
Builder Eddie Carr of Washington , past president of NAHB , cut his bricklaying costs $150 a house by adopting the `` SCR masonry process '' worked out after careful time-&-motion studies by the Structural Clay Products Research Foundation to help bricklayers do better work for less .
A midwestern builder cut his labor costs per thousand bricks from $81 to $43.50 by adopting this same process , cut them another $7.50 to $36 by buying his bricks in convenient , easy-to-spot 100-brick packages .
The SCR process , with its precision corner-posts , its precision guide lines , its working level scaffold , and its hand-level brick supply takes eight manhours to get set , but once ready it makes it easy for bricklayers to lay a thousand bricks a day .
See page 156 .
One good way to cut your labor waste is to make sure you are using just the right number of men in each crew .
Reports Jim Lendrum : `` By studying men on the job , we found that two men -- a carpenter and a helper -- can lay a floor faster than three .
We found that three men -- two carpenters and a helper -- can put up wall panels or trusses more economically than four men -- because four men don't make two teams ; ;
they make one inefficient three-men-and-a-helper team .
We found that wherever you can use two teams on a job , five men , not four , is the magic number '' .
No house was ever built that could not have been built better for less if the work had been better planned and the work better scheduled .
New rule no. 5 : :
Don't waste any $.10-a-minute time on green lumber to save $.03 a stud
.
This is the most penny-wise , pound-foolish chisel a builder can commit .
Green lumber was all very well back in the days of wet plaster , when the framing lumber was bound to swell and then shrink as tons of water dried out the gypsum .
But now that all production builders build with drywall and all smart builders build with panels , green lumber is an anachronism you cannot afford .
Green studs cost about $.65 ; ;
dry studs cost less than $.03 more .
So if a green stud makes a carpenter or a drywall finisher or anybody else waste even 20 seconds , the green stud becomes more expensive than a dry stud .
There comes a time in the lives of most of us when we want to be alone .
Not necessarily to be off all by ourselves , but away from the crowds and common happenstance .
If you've travelled in Europe a time or two , it is quite certain that you've had that wanting-to-be-alone feeling or that you will get it on your next visit across the Atlantic .
Following a guide , and gratefully so , is an excellent way to see all the important places when everything is strange and new .
However , after you've seen all the historical piazzas and plazas , the places and forums , the churches and museums , the palaces and castles , and begin to feel at home in the capitals of Europe , you'll want to change your course and follow the by-roads at will , far from the market places .
The champagne at Troyes , the traditional capital of the champagne country , has more ambrosial taste somehow than it has at a sidewalk cafe on the Rue de la Paix or at Tour D'Argent .
You can relive history and follow , in fancy , the Crusaders in their quest for the Holy Grail as they sail out from Brindisi , an ancient town in the heel of Italy's boot .
And you don't meet the folks from home in Northwest Spain which has remained almost untouched by time and tourists since the Middle Ages .
Time stands still as you climb the narrow , stone stairways in tiny villages clinging to steep mountain slopes or wander through story-book towns , perched atop lofty crags , their faces turned to the sea .
They've been there since the days of the Moors and the Saracens .
And what better way to end a day than by dining with artists and gourmets in a squat but charming fisherman's village on the Mediterranean ? ?
An almost too-simple-to-be-true way to set forth on such adventures is just to put yourself behind the wheel of a car and head for the open road .
For those who need or want and can afford another car , buying one and driving it on the grand tour , then shipping it home , is one popular plan for a do-it-yourself pilgrimage .
Then , of course , there are those of us who either do not want or need or cannot afford another car .
The answer to this diathesis is to pick up a telephone and arrange to rent one .
It is that elemental .
Almost any travel agent will reserve a car for you .
You can call one of the car rental services directly ( Hertz , Avis , Auto-Europe Nationalcar Rental , and others ) and ask them to reserve a car of your choice , and some transportation lines offer this service as well .
With few exceptions , your car will be waiting for you at dockside , airport , railroad station or hotel when you arrive , oftentimes at no additional cost .
You can wait , of course , until you arrive in Europe before renting your car .
The disadvantages to this method are that you may not have as great a choice of models readily available or you may have to wait a few days or , during the busy tourist season , when cars are in great demand , you might find it fairly difficult to get a car at all .
Since charges are relatively the same , reserving a car before you leave for Europe will assure you of having one on tap when you want it .
For those who plan to travel to Europe by one route and return by another some agencies offer a service whereby you can pick up a car in one city on arrival and leave it in another city , or even another country , when you are ready to return home .
At some cities , this pick-up and delivery service is without additional charge , and , if you are budget-wise , when you are planning your itinerary , you will take advantage of these free delivery and collection stations in major cities within the larger European countries .
International Touring Documents are usually provided with the car as are road maps and touring data .
A valid American driving license is accepted in all countries except Portugal , Spain , Yugoslavia and Eastern Europe .
If you plan to visit any of these countries , you can obtain your International Driving Permit before you leave at a nominal fee -- around $3.00 .
Your insurance , too , with most agencies , is provided with the car , covering comprehensive fire , theft , liability and collision with a deductible clause which varies in different countries .
If you would feel happier with full collision insurance , there is a small additional charge , again varying from country to country and depending on the term of such insurance .
The average charge for this additional insurance coverage is roughly $1.00 a day .
The charge is variable , however , and goes as low as $.50 a day in Ireland and as high as $2.00 a day in Greece .
Rental fees are variable , too , throughout the countries of Europe .
There are as many rates as there are countries and models of cars available .
As in the United States , there is a flat fee-per-day rental charge plus a few cents per kilometer driven , and the per-day rate drops if the car is retained for a week .
It drops again after fifteen and/or twenty-one days .
It is well to bear in mind that gasoline will cost from $.80 to $.90 for the equivalent of a United States gallon and while you might prefer a familiar Ford , Chevrolet or even a Cadillac , which are available in some countries , it is probably wiser to choose the smaller European makes which average thirty , thirty-five and even forty miles to the gallon .
Your choice of model will undoubtedly be governed by the number of people travelling in your group .
With the exception of the sports cars , even the quite tiny sedans will seat four passengers if you are willing to sacrifice comfort and luggage space for really economical transportation .
There is a large variety of models to choose from in most countries , however , including 6-passenger sedans and station wagons and the rental fee isn't all that much greater than for the wee sedans .
The basic costs are generally pretty much the same regardless of the agency through which you reserve your car , but some of them offer supplementary advantages .
There is the free intra-city `` rent it here , leave it there '' service , as an example , the free delivery and collection at the airport , dockside or your hotel , luggage racks , touring documents and information and other similar services .
A little investigation by telephone or reading the travel ads in the newspapers and magazines will give you these pertinent details on the additional money-saving benefits .
The investigation will be well worth your time .
All model cars are not available in all countries .
Quite naturally , there is a greater availability of those models which are manufactured within a specific country .
If you would like to start your tour in Italy , where the rental fees are actually the lowest in Europe , Fiats in all sizes are available , as are Alfa Romeo Giulietta models .
If you wish to budget closely on transportation , saving your extra dollars to indulge in luxuries , one agency lists the small Fiat 500 at only $1.26 a day plus $.03 a kilometer and the Fiat 2100 Station Wagon , seating six , at just $1.10 a day and $.105 a kilometer .
If you will be using your car more than fifteen days , which isn't all unlikely , the daily rates drop quite sharply to $.86 a day for the Fiat 500 and to an infinitesimal $.30 a day for the Fiat 2100 Station Wagon .
With six in the group , the cost comes to just a nickel a day per person on the daily fee .
In the majority of countries , however , the rates range from $3.00 to $3.50 a day for the smaller sedans and graduate up to $7.00 and $8.00 a day for the larger , luxury European models , with the rate per kilometer driven starting at $.03 and going up as high as $.12 .
The same model car might be available in six or eight countries , yet not two countries will have the same rate either for the daily rate or rate per kilometer driven .
The variations are not too great .
Rates for American cars are somewhat higher , ranging from about $8.00 a day up to $14.00 a day for a Chevrolet Convertible , but the rate per kilometer driven is roughly the same as for the larger European models .
Rates in Greece and Finland are fairly high , actually the highest in Europe , and , surprisingly enough , they are also quite high in Ireland .
If you are planning to tour Europe for longer than a month , it might be wise for you to lease a car .
The actual over-all cost , for the first month , will perhaps not be too much lower than the rental charges for the same period of time , but you will receive a new car .
You will be entitled to all the advantages of a new car owner , which includes the factory guarantee and the services valid at authorized dealers throughout Europe .
Further , there is no mileage charge or mileage limitations when you lease a car , and you pay only the flat monthly rate plus a nominal charge for documents and insurance since the car is registered and insured individually for your trip .
There is a fairly wide selection of models of English , German and French manufacture from which you can choose from the very small Austin 7 , Citroen 2 CV , Volkswagens , Renaults to the 6-passenger Simca Beaulieu .
Leasing a car is not as common or as popular as renting a car in Europe , but for long periods it will be unquestionably more economical and satisfactory .
After the first month , rates are considerably less , averaging only about $60 a month for most 4- and 5-passenger models .
There are reasons for some people not wanting to rent cars and going on the do-it-yourself plan .
For one thing , the driver usually sees less and has less fun than his passengers since it becomes pretty necessary for him to keep at least one eye on the road .
Then , too , European drivers have reputations for being somewhat crazy on the road and some Americans are not particularly keen on getting mixed up with them .
Still there is a way for those who want to see some of the back country of Europe by car .
The way is to rent a chauffeur-driven car .
It isn't as expensive as most people believe it to be .
Your chauffeur's expenses will average between $7.00 to $12.00 a day , but this charge is the same whether you rent a 7-passenger Cadillac limousine or a 4-passenger Peugeot or Fiat 1800 .
The big spread is in the charge for each kilometer driven , being governed by the rate at which gasoline is consumed .
Since most European cars average more miles per gallon of gasoline than American cars , it naturally follows that the cost per kilometer for these models will be less , but the greater seating capacity of the large American cars will equalize this , provided your group is sufficiently large to fill a 7-passenger limousine .
The fees for the rental of chauffeur-driven cars vary in the different countries in the same manner as they do for the drive-yourself cars .
However , whether you arrange to have a European or American model , if you rent a car with the proper seating capacity in relation to the number of people in your party , your transportation expense will average very close to $10.00 per day per passenger .
This will include your helpful , English-speaking chauffeur and a drive of an average of 150 kilometers in any one day .
If you drive greater distances than that , you'll just be skimming the surface and will never discover the enchantment , fascination and beauty which lured you in the first place to explore the hinterlands .
Of course , if you want to throw all caution to the winds and rent an Imperial or Cadillac limousine just for you and your bride , you'll have a memorable tour , but it won't be cheap , and it is not recommended unless you own a producing oil well or you've had a winner in the Irish Sweepstakes .
In American romance , almost nothing rates higher than what the movie men have called `` meeting cute '' -- that is , boy-meets-girl seems more adorable if it doesn't take place in an atmosphere of correct and acute boredom .
Just about the most enthralling real-life example of meeting cute is the Charles MacArthur-Helen Hayes saga : reputedly all he did was give her a handful of peanuts , but he said simultaneously , `` I wish they were emeralds '' .
Aside from the comico-romantico content here , a good linguist-anthropologist could readily pick up a few other facts , especially if he had a little more of the conversation to go on .
The way MacArthur said his line -- if you had the recorded transcript of a professional linguist -- would probably have gone like this : Af Primary stresses on emeralds and wish ; ;
note pitch 3 ( pretty high ) on emeralds but with a slight degree of drawl , one degree of oversoftness .
Conclusions : The people involved ( and subsequent facts bear me out here ) knew clearly the relative values of peanuts and emeralds , both monetary and sentimental .
And the drawling , oversoft voice of flirtation , though fairly overt , was still well within the prescribed gambit of their culture .
In other words , like automation machines designed to work in tandem , they shared the same programming , a mutual understanding not only of English words , but of the four stresses , pitches , and junctures that can change their meaning from black to white .
At this point , unfortunately , romance becomes a regrettably small part of the picture ; ;
but consider , if you can bear it , what might have happened if MacArthur , for some perverse , undaunted reason , had made the same remark to an Eskimo girl in Eskimo .
To her peanuts and emeralds would have been just so much blubber .
The point -- quite simply -- is this : words they might have had ; ;
but communication , no .
This basic principle , the first in a richly knotted bundle , was conveyed to me by Dr. Henry Lee Smith , Jr. , at the University of Buffalo , where he heads the world's first department of anthropology and linguistics .
A brisk , amusing man , apparently constructed on an ingenious system of spring-joints attuned to the same peppery rhythm as his mind , Smith began his academic career teaching speech to Barnard girls -- a project considerably enlivened by his devotion to a recording about `` a young rat named Arthur , who never could make up his mind '' .
Later , he became one of the central spirits of the Army Language Program and the language school of Washington's Foreign Service Institute .
It was there , in the course of trying to prepare new men for the `` culture shock '' they might encounter in remote overseas posts , that he first began to develop a system of charting the `` norms of human communication '' .
To the trained ear of the linguist , talk has always revealed a staggering quantity of information about the talker -- such things as geographical origin and/or history , socio-economic identity , education .
It is only fairly recently , however , that linguists have developed a systematic way of charting voices on paper in a way that tells even more about the speakers and about the success or failure of human communication between two people .
This , for obvious reasons , makes their techniques superbly useful in studying the psychiatric interview , so useful , in fact , that they have been successfully used to suggest ways to speed diagnosis and to evaluate the progress of therapy .
In the early 1950's , Smith , together with his distinguished colleague , George Trager ( so austerely academic he sometimes fights his own evident charm ) , and a third man with the engaging name of Birdwhistell ( Ray ) , agreed on some basic premises about the three-part process that makes communication : ( 1 ) words or language ( 2 ) paralanguage , a set of phenomena including laughing , weeping , voice breaks , and `` tone '' of voice , and ( 3 ) kinesics , the technical name for gestures , facial expressions , and body shifts -- nodding or shaking the head , `` talking '' with one's hands , et cetera .
Smith's first workout with stresses , pitches , and junctures was based on mother , which spells , in our culture , a good deal more than bread alone .
For example , if you are a reasonably well-adjusted person , there are certain ways that are reasonable and appropriate for addressing your mother .
The usual U.S. norm would be : Af Middle pitches , slight pause ( juncture ) before mother , slight rise at the end .
The symbols of mother's status , here , are all usual for culture U.S.A. .
Quite other feelings are evidenced by this style : Af Note the drop to pitch 1 ( the lowest ) on mother with no rise at the end of the sentence ; ;
this is a `` fade '' ending , and what you have here is a downtalking style of speech , expressing something less than conventional respect for mother .
Even less regard for mom and mom's apple pie goes with : Af In other words , the way the speaker relates to mother is clearly indicated .
And while the meaning of the words is not in this instance altered , the quality of communication in both the second and third examples is definitely impaired .
An accompanying record of paralanguage factors for the second example might also note a throaty rasp .
With this seven-word sentence -- though the speaker undoubtedly thought he was dealing only with the subject of food -- he was telling things about himself and , in the last two examples , revealing that he had departed from the customs of his culture .
The joint investigations of linguistics and psychiatry have established , in point of fact , that no matter what the subject of conversation is or what words are involved , it is impossible for people to talk at all without telling over and over again what sort of people they are and how they relate to the rest of the world .
Since interviewing is the basic therapeutic and diagnostic instrument of modern psychiatry , the recording of interviews for playbacks and study has been a boost of Redstone proportions in new research and training .
Some of the earliest recordings , made in the 1940's demonstrated that psychiatrists reacted immediately to anger and anxiety in the sound track , whereas written records of the same interview offered far fewer cues to therapy which -- if they were at all discernible in print -- were picked up only by the most skilled and sensitive experts .
In a general way , psychiatrists were able to establish on a wide basis what many of them had always felt -- that the most telling cues in psychotherapy are acoustic , that such things as stress and nagging are transmitted by sound alone and not necessarily by words .
At a minimum , recording -- usually on tape , which is now in wide professional use -- brings the psychiatric interview alive so that the full range of emotion and meaning can be explored repeatedly by the therapist or by a battery of therapists .
Newest to this high-powered battery are the experts in linguistics who have carried that minimum to a new level .
By adding a systematic analysis with symbols to the typed transcripts of interviews , they have supplied a new set of techniques for the therapist .
Linguistic charting of the transcribed interview flags points where the patient's voice departs from expected norms .
It flags such possible breakdowns of communication as rehearsed dialogue , the note of disapproval , ambivalence or ambiguity , annoyance , resentment , and the disinclination to speak at all -- this last often marked by a fade-in beginning of sentences .
Interpretation , naturally , remains the role of the therapist , but orientation -- not only the patient's vocal giveaways of geographical and socio-economic background , but also vocal but non-verbal giveaways of danger spots in his relationship to people -- can be considerably beefed up by the linguist .
His esoteric chartings of the voice alert the therapist to areas where deeper probing may bring to light underlying psychological difficulties , making them apparent first to the therapist and eventually to the patient .
In one now-historic first interview , for example , the transcript ( reproduced from the book , The First Five Minutes ) goes like this : The therapist's level tone is bland and neutral -- he has , for example , avoided stressing `` you '' , which would imply disapproval ; ;
or surprise , which would set the patient apart from other people .
The patient , on the other hand , is far from neutral ; ;
aside from her specifically regional accent , she reveals by the use of the triad , `` irritable , tense , depressed '' , a certain pedantic itemization that indicates she has some familiarity with literary or scientific language ( i.e. , she must have had at least a high-school education ) , and she is telling a story she has mentally rehearsed some time before .
Then she catapults into `` everything and everybody '' , putting particular violence on `` everybody '' , indicating to the linguist that this is a spot to flag -- that is , it is not congruent to the patient's general style of speech up to this point .
Consequently , it is referred to the therapist for attention .
He may then very well conclude that `` everybody '' is probably not the true target of her resentment .
Immediately thereafter , the patient fractures her rehearsed story , veering into an oversoft , breathy , sloppily articulated , `` I don't feel like talking right now '' .
Within the first five minutes of this interview it is apparent to the therapist that `` everybody '' truthfully refers to the woman's husband .
She says later , but still within the opening five minutes , `` I keep thinking of a divorce but that's another emotional death '' .
The linguistic and paralinguistic signals of misery are all present in the voice chart for this sentence ; ;
so are certain signals that she does not accept divorce .
By saying `` another emotional death '' , she reveals that there has been a previous one , although she has not described it in words .
This the therapist may pursue in later questioning .
The phrase , `` emotional death '' , interesting and , to a non-scientific mind , rather touching , suggests that this woman may have some flair for words , perhaps even something of the temperament regrettably called `` creative '' .
Since the psychiatric interview , like any other interview , depends on communication , it is significant to note that the therapist in this interview was a man of marked skill and long experience .
His own communication apparatus operated superbly , and Lillian Ross readers will note instantly its total lack of resemblance to the blunted , monumentally unmeshed mechanism of Dr. Blauberman .
Interestingly enough -- although none of the real-life therapists involved could conceivably compare with Blauberman -- when groups of them began playing back interviews , they discovered any number of ways in which they wanted to polish their own interview techniques ; ;
almost everyone , on first hearing one of his own sessions on tape , expressed some desire to take the whole thing over again .
Yet , in spite of this , intensive study of the taped interviews by teams of psychotherapists and linguists laid bare the surprising fact that , in the first five minutes of an initial interview , the patient often reveals as many as a dozen times just what's wrong with him ; ;
to spot these giveaways the therapist must know either intuitively or scientifically how to listen .
Naturally , the patient does not say , `` I hate my father '' , or `` Sibling rivalry is what bugs me '' .
What he does do is give himself away by communicating information over and above the words involved .
Some of the classic indicators , as described by Drs. Pittenger , Hockett , and Danehy in The First Five Minutes , are these : ambiguity of pronouns :
Stammering or repetition of I , you , he , she , et cetera may signal ambiguity or uncertainty .
On the other hand significant facts may be concealed -- she may mean I or everybody , as it did with the tense and irritable woman mentioned before , may refer to a specific person .
The word that is not used can be as important as the word that is used ; ;
therapist and/or linguist must always consider the alternatives .
When someone says , for example , `` They took x-rays to see that there was nothing wrong with me '' , it pays to consider how this statement would normally be made .
( This patient , in actuality , was a neurasthenic who had almost come to the point of accepting the fact that it was not her soma but her psyche that was the cause of her difficulty .
) Amateur linguists note here that Pursewarden , in Durrell's Alexandria Quartet , stammered when he spoke of his wife , which is hardly surprising in view of their disastrous relationship .
She was just another freighter from the States , and she seemed as commonplace as her name .
She was the John Harvey , one of those Atlantic sea-horses that had sailed to Bari to bring beans , bombs , and bullets to the U.S. Fifteenth Air Force , to Field Marshal Montgomery's Eighth Army then racing up the calf of the boot of Italy in that early December of 1943 .
The John Harvey arrived in Bari , a port on the Adriatic , on November 28th , making for Porto Nuovo , which , as the name indicates , was the ancient city's new and modern harbor .
Hardly anyone ashore marked her as she anchored stern-to off Berth 29 on the mole .
If anyone thought of the John Harvey , it was to observe that she was straddled by a pair of ships heavily laden with high explosive and if they were hit the John Harvey would likely be blown up with her own ammo and whatever else it was that she carried .
Which was poison gas .
It had required the approval of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt before the John Harvey could be loaded with 100 tons of mustard gas and despatched to the Italian warfront .
For in a world as yet unacquainted with the horrors of the mushroom cloud , poison gas was still regarded as the ultimate in hideous weapons .
Throughout the early years of World War 2 , , reports persisted that the Axis powers had used gas -- Germany in Russia , Japan in China again .
They were always denied .
Influential people in America were warning the Pentagon to be prepared against desperation gas attacks by the Germans in future campaigns .
Some extremists went so far as to urge our using it first .
To silence extremists , to warn the Axis , President Roosevelt issued this statement for the Allies in August :
`` From time to time since the present war began there have been reports that one or more of the Axis powers were seriously contemplating use of poisonous gas or noxious gases or other inhumane devices of warfare .
I have been loath to believe that any nation , even our present enemies , could or would be willing to loose upon mankind such terrible and inhumane weapons .
`` However , evidence that the Axis powers are making significant preparations indicative of such an intention is being reported with increasing frequency from a variety of sources .
`` Use of such weapons has been outlawed by the general opinion of civilized mankind .
This country has not used them , and I hope that we never will be compelled to use them .
I state categorically that we shall under no circumstances resort to the use of such weapons unless they are first used by our enemies '' .
The following month the invasion of Italy was begun , and Roosevelt gave effect to his warning by consenting to the stockpiling of poison gas in southern Italy .
Bari was chosen as a depot , not only for its seeming safety , but because of its proximity to airfields .
Any retaliatory gas attack would be airborne .
It would be made in three waves -- the first to lay down a smokescreen , the second to drop the gas bombs , the third to shower incendiaries which would burn everything below .
So the vile cargo went into the hole of the John Harvey .
A detachment of six men from the 701st Chemical Maintenance Company under First Lt. Howard D. Beckstrom went aboard , followed by Lt. Thomas H. Richardson , the Cargo Security Officer .
Secrecy was paramount .
Only a few other people -- very important people -- knew of the nitrogen-mustard eggs nestled below decks .
No one else must know .
Thus , in the immemorial way -- in the way of the right hand that knows and the left that does not -- was the stage set for tragedy at Bari .
It was the night of December 2 , 1943 , and it was growing dark in Bari .
It was getting on toward 7 o'clock and the German Me-210 plane had been and gone on its eighth straight visit .
Capt. A. B. Jenks of the Office of Harbor Defense was very worried .
He knew that German long-range bombers had been returning to the attack in Italy .
On November 24th , they had made a raid on La Maddalena .
Two days later , some 30 of them had struck at a convoy off Bougie , sinking a troopship -- and it had been that very night that the Me-210 had made its first appearance .
After it had reappeared the next two nights , Jenks went to higher headquarters and said :
`` For three days now a German reconnaissance plane has been over the city taking pictures .
They're just waiting for the proper time to come over here and dump this place into the Adriatic '' .
But the older and wiser heads had dismissed his warning as alarmist .
Even though it was known that the Luftwaffe in the north was now being directed by the young and energetic General Peltz , the commander who would conduct the `` Little Blitz '' on London in 1944 , a major raid on Bari at this juncture of the war was not to be considered seriously .
True , there had been raids on Naples -- but Naples was pretty far north on the opposite coast .
No , Bari was out of range .
More than that , Allied air had complete superiority in the Eighth Army's sector .
So Captain Jenks returned to his harbor post to watch the scouting plane put in five more appearances , and to feel the certainty of this dread rising within him .
For Jenks knew that Bari's defenses were made of paper .
The Royal Air Force had but a single light anti-aircraft squadron and two balloon units available .
There were no R.A.F. fighter squadrons on Bari airfield .
The radar station with the best location was still not serviceable .
Telephone communication was bad .
And everywhere in evidence among the few remaining defensive units was that old handmaiden of disaster -- multiple command .
It had been made shockingly evident that very morning to Ensign Kay K. Vesole , in charge of the armed guard aboard the John Bascom .
A British officer had come aboard and told him that in case of enemy air attack he was not to open fire until bombs were actually dropped .
Then he was to co-ordinate his fire with a radar-controlled shore gun firing white tracers .
`` This harbor is a bomber's paradise '' , the Britisher had said with frank grimness .
`` It's up to you to protect yourselves .
We can't expect any help from the fighters at Foggia , either .
They're all being used on offensive missions '' .
Vesole had been stunned .
Not fire until the bombs came down ! !
He thought of the tons and tons of flammable fluid beneath his feet and shook his head .
Like hell ! !
Like hell he'd wait -- and supposing the radar-controlled gun got knocked out ? ?
What would his guns guide on then -- the North Star ? ?
Ensign Vesole decided that he would not tarry until he heard the whispering of the bombs , and when night began to fall , he put Seaman 2/c Donald L. Norton and Seaman 1/c William A. Rochford on the guns and told them to start shooting the moment they saw an enemy silhouette .
Below decks , Seaman 1/c Stanley Bishop had begun to write a letter home .
Above decks on the John Harvey , Lieutenant Richardson gazed at the lights still burning on the port wall and felt uneasy .
There were lights glinting in the city , too , even though it was now dark enough for a few stars to become visible .
Bari was asking for it , he thought .
For five days now , they had been in port and that filthy stuff was still in the hold .
Richardson wondered when it would be unloaded .
He hoped they would put in somewhere way , way down in the earth .
The burden of his secret was pressing down on him , as it was on Lieutenant Beckstrom and his six enlisted men .
Lieutenant Richardson could envy the officers and men of the John Harvey in their innocent assumption that the ship contained nothing more dangerous than high explosive bombs .
They seemed happy at the delay in unloading , glad at the chance to go ashore in a lively liberty port such as Bari .
Nine of them had gone down the gangplank already .
Deck Cadet James L. Cahill and Seaman Walter Brooks had been the first to leave .
Richardson had returned their departing grins with the noncommittal nod that is the security officer's stock in trade .
The other half of the crew , plus Beckstrom and his men , had remained aboard .
Richardson glanced to sea and started slightly .
Damned if that wasn't a sailing ship standing out of the old harbor -- Porto Vecchio .
The night was so clear that Richardson had no difficulty making out the silhouette .
Then the thought of a cloudless sky made him shiver , and he glanced upward .
His eyes boggled .
It was a clear night and it was raining ! !
Capt. Michael A. Musmanno , Military governor of the Sorrentine Peninsula , had also seen and felt the `` rain '' .
But he had mistaken it for bugs .
Captain Musmanno's renovated schooner with the flamboyant name Unsinkable had just left Porto Vecchio with a cargo of badly-needed olive oil for the Sorrentine's civilian population .
Musmanno was on deck .
At exactly 7:30 , he felt a fluttering object brush his face .
He snatched at it savagely .
He turned the beam of his flashlight on it .
He laughed .
It was the silver foil from the chocolate bar he had been eating .
He frowned .
But how could -- ? ?
Another , longer strip of tinsel whipped his mouth .
It was two feet long .
It was not candy wrapping .
It was `` window '' -- the tinsel paper dropped by bombers to jam radar sets , to fill the scope with hundreds of blips that would seem to be approaching bombers .
`` Fermate '' ! !
Musmanno bellowed to his Italian crewmen .
`` Stop ! !
Stop the engines '' ! !
Unsinkable slowed and stopped , hundreds of brilliant white flares swayed eerily down from the black , the air raid sirens ashore rose in a keening shriek , the anti-aircraft guns coughed and chattered -- and above it all motors roared and the bombs came whispering and wailing and crashing down among the ships at anchor at Bari .
They had come from airports in the Balkans , these hundred-odd Junkers 88's .
They had winged over the Adriatic , they had taken Bari by complete surprise and now they were battering her , attacking with deadly skill .
They had ruined the radar warning system with their window , they had made themselves invisible above their flares .
And they also had the lights of the city , the port wall lanterns , and a shore crane's spotlight to guide on .
After the first two were blacked out , the third light was abandoned by a terrified Italian crew , who left their light to shine for nine minutes like an unerring homing beacon until British MP's shot it out .
In that interval , the German bombers made a hell of Bari harbor .
Merchant ships illuminated in the light of the flares , made to seem like stones imbedded in a lake of polished mud , were impossible to miss .
The little Unsinkable sank almost immediately .
Captain Musmanno roared at his men to lash three of the casks of olive oil together for a raft .
They got it over the side and clambered aboard only a few minutes before their schooner went under .
John Bascom went down early , too .
Ensign Vesole and his gunners had fought valiantly , but they had no targets .
Most of the Junkers were above the blinding light of the flares , and the radar-controlled shore gun had been knocked out by one of the first sticks of bombs .
Vesole rushed from gun to gun , attempting to direct fire .
He was wounded , but fought on .
Norton and Rochford fired wildly at the sounds of the motors .
Bishop rushed on deck to grab a 20-mm gun , pumping out 400 rounds before sticks of three bombs each crashed into Holds One , Three and Five .
Now the Bascom was mortally wounded .
Luckily , she was not completely aflame and would go down before the gasoline could erupt .
The order to abandon ship was given , but cries of pain could be heard from the wounded below decks .
There is a pause in the merriment as your friends gaze at you , wondering why you are staring , open-mouthed in amazement .
You explain , `` I have the strangest feeling of having lived through this very same event before .
I can't tell when , but I'm positive I witnessed this same scene of this particular gathering at some time in the past '' ! !
This experience will have happened to many of you .
Emerson , in his lecture , refers to the `` startling experience which almost every person confesses in daylight , that particular passages of conversation and action have occurred to him in the same order before , whether dreaming or waking , a suspicion that they have been with precisely these persons in precisely this room , and heard precisely this dialogue , at some former hour , they know not when '' .
Most psychiatrists dismiss these instances of that weird feeling as the deja vue ( already seen ) illusion , just as they dismiss dream previsions as coincidences .
In this manner they side-step the seemingly hopeless investigation of the greater depths of mystery in which all of us grope continually .
When a man recognizes a certain experience as the exact pattern of a previous dream , we have an instance of deja vue , except for the fact that he knows just why the experience seems familiar .
Occasionally there are examples of pre-vision which cannot be pushed aside without confessing an unscientific attitude .
One day Maeterlinck , coming with a friend upon an event which he recognized as the exact pattern of a previous dream , detailed the ensuing occurrences in advance so accurately that his companion was completely mystified .
Rudyard Kipling's scorn for the `` jargon '' of psychical research was altered somewhat when he wondered `` how , or why , had I been shown an unreleased roll of my life film '' ? ?
The famous author tells us of the strange incident in Something About Myself .
One day when he attended a war memorial ceremony in Westminster Abbey his view was obstructed by a stout man on his left , his attention turned to the irregular pattern of the rough slab flooring and someone , clasping him by the arm , whispered , `` I want a word with you , please '' .
At that moment Kipling was overwhelmed with awed amazement , suddenly recalling that these identical details of scene , action and word had occurred to him in a dream six weeks earlier .
Freud probably contributed more than anyone else to the understanding of dreams , enabling us to recognize their equivalents in our wakeful thoughts .
However , readers who accept Freud's findings and believe that he has solved completely the mystery of dreams , should ponder over the following words in his Interpretation Of Dreams , Chapter 1 : :
As `` a matter of fact no such complete solution of the dream has ever been accomplished in any case , , and what is more , every one attempting such solution has found that in most cases there have remained a great many components of the dream the source of which he has been unable to explain nor is the discussion closed on the subject of the mantic or prophetic power of dreams '' .
Dreams present many mysteries of telepathy , clairvoyance , prevision and retrovision .
The basic mystery of dreams , which embraces all the others and challenges us from even the most common typical dream , is in the fact that they are original , visual continuities .
I recall the startling , vivid realism of a dream in which I lived through the horror of the bombing of a little Korean town .
I am sure that nothing within me is capable of composing that life-like sequence , so complete in detail , from the hodge-podge of news pictures I have seen .
And when psychology explains glibly , `` but the subconscious mind is able to produce it '' it refers to a mental region so vaguely identified that it may embrace the entire universal mind as conceivably as part of the individual mind .
Skeptics may deny the more startling phenomena of dreams as things they have never personally observed , but failure to wonder at their basic mystery is outright avoidance of routine evidence .
The question becomes , `` What is a dream '' ? ?
Is a dream simply a mental or cerebral movie ? ?
Every dream , and this is true of a mental image of any type even though it may be readily interpreted into its equivalent of wakeful thought , is a psychic phenomenon for which no explanation is available .
In most cases we recognize certain words , persons , animals or objects .
But these are dreamed in original action , in some particular continuity which we don't remember having seen in real life .
For instance , the dreamer sees himself seated behind neighbor Smith and , with photographic realism , sees Smith driving the car ; ;
whereas , it is a matter of fact that Smith cannot drive a car .
There is nothing to suggest that the brain can alter past impressions to fit into an original , realistic and unbroken continuity like we experience in dreams .
The entire concept of cerebral imagery as the physical basis of a mental image can find no logical support .
A `` mental image '' subconsciously impressing us from beneath its language symbols in wakeful thought , or consciously in light sleep , is actually not an image at all but is comprised of realities , viewed not in the concurrent sensory stream , but within the depths of the fourth dimension .
Dreams that display events of the future with photographic detail call for a theory explaining their basic mystery and all its components , including that weird feeling of deja vue , inevitably fantastic though that theory must seem .
As in the theory of perception , established in psycho-physiology , the eye is recognized as an integral part of the brain .
But then this theory confesses that it is completely at a loss as to how the image can possibly be received by the brain .
The opening paragraph of the chapter titled The Theory Of Representative Perception , in the book Philosophies Of Science by Albert G. Ramsperger says , `` passed on to the brain , and there , by some unexplained process , it causes the mind to have a perception '' .
But why is it necessary to reproduce the retinal image within the brain ? ?
As retinal images are conceded to be an integral function of the brain it seems logical to suppose that the nerves , between the inner brain and the eyes , carry the direct drive for cooperation from the various brain centers -- rather than to theorize on the transmission of an image which is already in required location .
Hereby , the external object viewed by the eyes remains the thing that is seen , not the retinal image , the purpose of which would be to achieve perceptive cooperation by stirring sympathetic impulses in the other sensory centers , motor tensions , associated word symbols , and consciousness .
Modern physics has developed the theory that all matter consists of minute waves of energy .
We know that the number of radio and television impulses , sound waves , ultra-violet rays , etc. , that may occupy the very same space , each solitary upon its own frequency , is infinite .
So we may conceive the coexistence of the infinite number of universal , apparently momentary states of matter , successive one after another in consciousness , but permanent each on its own basic phase of the progressive frequencies .
This theory makes it possible for any event throughout eternity to be continuously available at any moment to consciousness .
Space in any form is completely measured by the three dimensions .
If the fourth dimension is a physical concept and not purely metaphysical , through what medium does it extend ? ?
It is not through space nor time that the time machine most approved by science fiction must travel for a visit to the permanent prehistoric past , or the ever-existent past-fantasy future .
Three seconds flat is the usual time , and the space is crossed by moderate mileage , while the overwhelming immensity of such journeys must be conceived as a static pulsation through an enormous number of coexistent frequencies which perpetuate all events .
The body , senses and brain , in common with all matter , have their counterpart on each of a countless number of frequencies .
The senses in each counterpart bear the impression only of phenomena that share its own frequency , whereas those upon all other frequencies are invisible , inaudible and intactible to them .
Consciousness is the factor that provides the progressive continuity to sensory impressions .
When consciousness deserts the sleeping body and the wakeful world , it continues in the myriad progressions of the ever-present past and future , in a life as vibrant and real as the one left when the body tired and required sleep .
If the photographically realistic continuity of dreams , however bizarre their combinations , denies that it is purely a composition of the brain , it must be compounded from views of diverse realities , although some of them may never be encountered in what we are pleased to call the real life .
Dr. H. V. Hilprecht , Professor of Assyrian at the University of Pennsylvania , dreamed that a Babylonian priest , associated with the king Kurigalzu , ( 1300 B.C. ) escorted him to the treasure chamber of the temple of Bel , gave him six novel points of information about a certain broken relic , and corrected an error in its identification .
As a matter of fact , the incorrect classification , the result of many weeks of labor by Dr. Hilprecht , was about to be published by him the following day .
Some time later the missing part of the relic was found and the complete inscription , together with other new evidence , fully corroborated the ancient priest's information .
Dr. Hilprecht was uncertain as to the language used by the ancient priest in his dream .
He was almost positive it was not Assyrian nor Cassite , and imagined it must have been German or English .
We may conclude that all six points of information , ostensibly given by the dream priest , could have been furnished by Dr. Hilprecht's subconscious reasoning .
But , in denying any physical reality for this dream , how could the brain possibly compose that realistic , vividly visual continuity uninterrupted by misty fadeout , violent break or sudden substitution ? ?
Which theory is more fantastic : 1 .
That the perfect continuity was composed from the joblot of memory impressions in the professor's brain , or 2 .
That the dream was a reality on the infinite progressions of universal , gradient frequencies , across which the modern professor and the priest of ancient Nippur met ? ?
The degree of circumstance , the ratio of memory to forgetfulness , determines whether a dream will be a recognized , fulfilled prevision , or the vaguely , effective source of the weird deja vue feeling .
No doubt some experiences vanish so completely as to leave no trace on the sleeper's mind .
Probably less than one percent of our previsions escape final obliteration before we wake .
When we arrive at the events concerned in the vanished majority , they , of course , cannot impress us as anything familiar .
Nevertheless , there are notably frequent instances of deja vue , in which our recognition of an entirely novel event is a feeling of having lived through it before , a feeling which , though vague , withstands the verbal barrage from the most impressive corps of psychologists .
If deja vue is an illusion , then peculiarly , it is a most prevalent mental disturbance affecting even the most level-headed people .
Chauncey Depew , one-time runner-up for the Republican Presidential nomination , was attending a convention at Saratoga , where he was scheduled to nominate Colonel Theodore Roosevelt for Governor of New York when he noticed that the temporary chairman was a man he had never met .
After the preliminary business affair was finished Depew arose and delivered the convincing speech that clinched the nomination for Roosevelt .
If Depew had told any academic psychologist that he had a weird feeling of having lived through that identical convention session at some time in the past , he would have been informed that he was a victim of deja vue .
But the famous orator felt more than vague recognition for the scene .
He remembered exactly when he had lived through it before , and he had something to prove he had .
One week before the convention , Depew was seated on the porch of a country home on the Hudson , gazing at the opposite shore .
`` The food is wonderful and it is a lot of fun to be here '' ! !
So wrote a ten year old student in a letter to his parents from North Country School , Lake Placid , New York .
In this one sentence , he unwittingly revealed the basic philosophy of the nutrition and psychological programs in operation at the school .
Because the food is selected with thought for its nutritional value , care for its origin , and prepared in a manner that retains the most nutrients , the food does taste good .
When served in a psychological atmosphere that allows young bodies to assimilate the greatest good from what they eat because they are free from tension , a foundation is laid for a high level of health that releases the children from physical handicaps to participate with enjoyment in the work assignments , the athletic programs and the most important phase , the educational opportunities .
Situated in a region of some of the loveliest mountain scenery in the country , the school buildings are located amid open fields and farm lands .
These contemporary structures , beautifully adapted to a school in the country , are home to 60 children , ages eight to fourteen , grades four through eight .
From fourteen states and three foreign countries they come to spend the months from mid-September to June .
The Director , Walter E. Clark , believes that a school with children living full time in its care must take full responsibility for their welfare .
To him this means caring for the whole child , providing basic nutrition , and a spiritual attitude that lends freedom for the development of the mind .
Improved farming methods
The concept of good nutrition really began with the garden .
The school has always maintained a farm to supply the needs of the school .
In a climate hostile to agriculture , Mr. Clark has had to keep alert to the most productive farm techniques .
Where a growing season may , with luck , allow 60 days without frost , and where the soil is poor , sandy , quick-drying and subject to erosion , many farmers fail .
Throughout the Adirondack region abandoned farm homes and wild orchards bear ghostly testimony that their owners met defeat .
Mr. Clark found that orthodox procedures of deep plowing , use of chemical fertilizers and insecticides , plus the application of conservation principles of rotation and contouring , did not prevent sheet erosion in the potato fields and depreciation of the soil .
`` To give up these notions required a revolution in thought '' , Mr. Clark said in reminiscing about the abrupt changes in ideas he experienced when he began reading `` Organic Gardening '' And `` Modern Nutrition '' in a search for help with his problems .
`` Louis Bromfield's writings excited me as a conservationist '' .
By 1952 he was convinced he would no longer spray .
He locked his equipment in a cabinet where it still remains .
After reading `` Plowman's Folly '' by Edward H. Faulkner , he stopped plowing .
The basis for compost materials already existed on the school farm with a stable of animals for the riding program , poultry for eggs , pigs to eat garbage , a beef herd and wastes of all kinds .
Separate pails were kept in the kitchen for coffee grounds and egg shells .
All these materials and supplementary manure and other fertilizers from neighboring dairy and poultry farms made over 40 tons of finished compost a year .
It was applied with a compost shredder made from a converted manure spreader .
Years of patient application of compost and leaf mulching has changed the structure of the soil and its water-holding capacity .
Soon after the method changed , visitors began asking how he managed to irrigate his soil to keep it looking moist , when in reality , it was the soil treatment alone that accomplished this .
To demonstrate the soil of his vegetable gardens as it is today , Mr. Clark stooped to scoop up a handful of rich dark earth .
Sniffing its sweet smell and letting it fall to show its good crumbly consistency , he pointed to the nearby driveway and said , `` This soil used to be like that hard packed road over there '' .
`` People and soils respond slowly '' , says Walter Clark , `` but the time has now come when the gardens produce delicious long-keeping vegetables due to this enrichment program .
No chemical fertilizers and poisonous insecticides and fungicides are used '' .
The garden supplies enough carrots , turnips , rutabagas , potatoes , beets , cabbage and squash to store for winter meals in the root cellar .
The carrots sometimes don't make it through the winter ; ;
the cabbage and squash keep until March or April .
There is never enough corn , peas or strawberries .
Mr. Clark still has to use rotenone with potatoes grown on the least fertile fields , but he has watched the insect damage decrease steadily and hopes that continued use of compost and leaf mulch will allow him to do without it in the future .
A new project planned is the use of Bio-Dynamic Starter .
New ideas for improving nutrition came with the study of soil treatment .
`` After the soil , the kitchen '' , says Mr. Clark .
The first major change was that of providing wholewheat bread instead of white bread .
`` Adults take a long time to convince and you are thwarted if you try to push '' .
At first the kitchen help was tolerant , but ordered their own supply of white bread for themselves .
`` You can't make French toast with whole-wheat bread '' , was an early complaint .
Of course they learned in time that they not only could use whole-wheat bread , but the children liked it better .
Homemade bread
Mrs. Clark , as house manager , planned the menus and cared for the ordering .
Then Miss Lillian Colman came from Vermont to be kitchen manager .
Today whole grains are freshly ground every day and baked into bread .
Mr. Clark's studies taught him that the only way to conserve the vitamins in the whole grain was prompt use of the flour .
Once the grains are ground , vitamin E begins to deteriorate immediately and half of it is lost by oxidation and exposure to the air within one week .
A mill stands in a room off the kitchen .
Surrounding it are metal cans of grains ordered from organic farms in the state .
Miss Colman pours measures of whole wheat , oats , and soy beans and turns on the motor .
She goes on about her work and listens for the completion of the grinding .
The bread baked from this mixture is light in color and fragrant in aroma .
It is well liked by the children and faculty .
There is one problem with the bread .
`` Lillian's bread is so good and everything tastes so much better here that it is hard not to eat too much '' , said the secretary ruefully eyeing her extra pounds .
Hot , freshly-ground cereal
The school has not used cold prepared cereals for years , though at one time that was all they ever served .
When the chance came , they first eliminated cold cereal once a week , then gradually converted to hot fresh-ground cereal every day .
They serve cracked wheat , oats or cornmeal .
Occasionally , the children find steamed , whole-wheat grains for cereal which they call `` buckshot '' .
At the beginning of the school year , the new students don't eat the cereal right away , but within a short time they are eating it voraciously .
When they leave for vacations they miss the hot cereal .
The school has received letters from parents asking , `` What happened to Johnny ? ?
He never used to like any hot cereal , now that's the only kind he wants .
Where can we get this cereal he likes so much '' ? ?
Body-building foods
Salads are served at least once a day .
Vegetables are served liberally .
Most come from the root cellar or from the freezer .
Home-made sauerkraut is served once a week .
Sprouted grains and seeds are used in salads and dishes such as chop suey .
Sometimes sprouted wheat is added to bread and causes the children to remark , `` Lillian , did you put nuts in the bread today '' ? ?
Milk appears twice a day .
The school raises enough poultry , pigs , and beef cattle for most of their needs .
Lots of cheese made from June grass milk is served .
Hens are kept on the range and roosters are kept with them for their fertility .
Organ meats such as beef and chicken liver , tongue and heart are planned once a week .
Also , salt water fish is on the table once a week .
For deserts , puddings and pies are each served once a week .
Most other desserts are fruit in some form , fresh fruits once daily at least , sometimes at snack time .
Dried fruits are purchased from sources where they are neither sulphured nor sprayed .
Apples come from a farm in Vermont where they are not sprayed .
Oranges and grapefruit are shipped from Florida weekly from an organic farm .
Finding sources for these high quality foods is a problem .
Sometimes the solution comes in unexpected ways .
Following a talk by Mr. Clark at the New York State Natural Food Associates Convention , a man from the audience offered to ship his unsprayed apples to the school from Vermont .
Wheat-germ , brewer's yeast and ground kelp are used in bread and in dishes such as spaghetti sauce , meat loaves .
Miss Colman hopes to find suitable shakers so that kelp can be available at the tables .
Raw wheat-germ is available on the breakfast table for the children to help themselves .
Very few fried foods are used and the use of salt and pepper is discouraged .
Drinking with meals is also discouraged ; ;
pitchers of water merely appear on the tables .
Nothing is peeled .
The source is known so there is no necessity to remove insecticide residues .
The cooking conserves a maximum of the vitamin C content of vegetables by methods which use very little water and cook in the shortest time possible .
Wholesome snacks , no candy
Since Mr. Clark believes firmly that the chewing of hard foods helps develop healthy gums and teeth , raw vegetables and raw whole-wheat grains are handed out with fresh fruit and whole-wheat cookies at snack time in the afternoons .
To solve the problem of the wheat grains spilling on the floor and getting underfoot , a ball of maple syrup boiled to candy consistency was invented to hold the grains .
On their frequent hikes into the nearby mountains , the children carry whole grains to munch along the trail .
They learn to like these so well that it isn't surprising to hear that one boy tried the oats he was feeding his horse at chore time .
They tasted good to him , so he brought some to breakfast to eat in his cereal bowl with milk and honey .
Maple syrup is made by the children in the woods on the school grounds .
This and raw sugar replace ordinary refined sugar on the tables and very little sugar is used in cooking .
Candy is not allowed .
Parents are asked in the bulletin to send packages of treats consisting of fruit and nuts , but no candy .
Nourishing meals
Mr. Clark believes in a good full breakfast of fruit , hot cereal , milk , honey , whole-wheat toast with real butter and eggs .
The heavy meal comes in the middle of the day .
Soup is often the important dish at supper .
Homemade of meat , bones and vegetables , it is rich in dissolved minerals and vitamins .
The school finds that the children are satisfied with smaller amounts of food since all of it is high in quality .
The cost to feed one person is just under one dollar a day .
Outdoor exercises
Even before he saw the necessity of growing better food and planning good nutrition , Mr. Clark felt the school had a good health program .
Rugged outdoor exercise for an hour and a half every day in all kinds of weather was the rule .
A vigorous program existed in skiing , skating sports and overnight hiking .
Healthier children
Since the change to better nutrition , he feels he can report on improvements in health , though he considers the following statements observations and not scientific proof .
Visitors to the school ask what shampoo they use on the children's hair to bring out the sheen .
The ruddy complexion of the faces also brings comment .
Buffeted by swirling winds , the little green biplane struggled northward between the mountains beyond Northfield Gulf .
Wires whined as a cold November blast rocked the silver wings , but the engine roar was reassuring to the pilot bundled in the open cockpit .
He peered ahead and grinned as the railroad tracks came into view again below .
`` Good old iron compass '' ! !
He thought .
A plume of smoke rose from a Central Vermont locomotive which idled behind a string of gravel cars , and little figures that were workmen labored to set the ruptured roadbed to rights .
The girders of a shattered Dog River bridge lay strewn for half a mile downstream .
Vermont's main railroad line was prostrate .
And in the dark days after the Great Flood of 1927 -- the worst natural disaster in the state's history -- the little plane was its sole replacement in carrying the United States mails .
Rain of near cloudburst proportions had fallen for three full days and it was still raining on the morning of Friday , November 4 , 1927 , when officials of the Post Office Department's Railway Mail Service realized that their distribution system for Vermont had been almost totally destroyed overnight .
Clerks and postmasters shoveled muck out of their offices -- those who still had offices -- and wondered how to move the mail .
The state's railroad system counted miles of broken bridges and missing rights-of-way : it would obviously remain out of commission for weeks .
And once medicine , food , clothing and shelter had been provided for the flood's victims , communications and the mail were the next top problems .
From Burlington , outgoing mail could be ferried across Lake Champlain to the railroad at Port Kent , N. Y. .
But what came in was piling up .
The nearest undisrupted end of track from Boston was at Concord , N. H. .
When Governor Al Smith offered New York National Guard planes to fly the mail in and out of the state , it seemed a likely temporary solution , easing Burlington's bottleneck and that at Montpelier too .
The question was `` Where to land '' ? ?
There was no such thing as an airport in Vermont .
Burlington aviator John J. Burns suggested the parade ground southwest of Fort Ethan Allen , and soon a dozen hastily-summoned National Guard pilots were bringing their wide-winged `` Jenny '' and DeHaviland two-seaters to rest on the frozen sod of the military base .
The only available field that could be used near flood-ravaged Montpelier was on the Towne farm off upper Main Street , a narrow hillside where takeoffs and landings could be safely made only under light wind conditions .
Over in Barre the streets had been deep in swirling water , and bridges were crumpled and gone .
Anticipating delivery of medicines and yeast by plane , Granite City citizens formed an airfield committee and with the aid of quarrymen and the 172nd Infantry , Vermont National Guard , laid out runways on Wilson flat , high on Millstone Hill .
The `` Barre Aviation Field '' was set to receive its first aircraft the Sunday following the flood .
Though the makeshift airports were ready , the York State Guard flyers proved unable to keep any kind of mail schedule .
They had courage but their meager training consisted of weekend hops in good weather , in and out of established airports , And the increasingly cold weather soon raised hob with the water cooled engines of their World War 1 , planes .
It seemed like a good time for officials to use a recently-passed law empowering the post office department to contract for the transport of first class mail by air .
They had to act fast , for letters were clogging the terminals .
Down in Concord , New Hampshire , was a flier in the right place at the right time : Robert S. Fogg , a native New Englander , had been a World War 1 , flying instructor , barnstormer , and one of the original planners of the Concord Airport .
Tall , wiry , dark-haired Bob Fogg had already racked up one historical first in air mail history .
Piloting a Curtiss Navy MF flying boat off Lake Winnipesaukee in 1925 , he had inaugurated the original Rural Delivery air service in America .
During the excitement following Lindbergh's flight to Paris earlier in 1927 , dare devil aviators overnight became legendary heroes .
In Concord , Bob Fogg was the most prominent New Hampshire boy with wings .
Public-spirited backers staked him to a brand-new airplane , aimed at putting their city and state on the flying map .
The ship was a Waco biplane , one of the first two of its type to be fitted with the air cooled , 225/hp Wright radial engine known as the Whirlwind .
A trim green and silver-painted craft only 22-1/2 feet long , the Waco was entered to compete in the `` On-to-Spokane '' Air Derby of 1927 .
As a matter of fact , Fogg and his plane didn't get beyond Pennsylvania in the race -- an engine oil leak forced him down -- but the flying service and school he started subsequently were first steps in paying off his wry-faced backers .
So with all this experience , Bob Fogg was a natural choice to receive the first Emergency Air Mail Star Route contract .
His work began just six days after the flood .
By airline from Concord to Burlington is a distance of about 150 miles , counting a slight deviation for the stop at either Barre or Montpelier .
The first few days Bob Fogg set his plane down on Towne field back of the State House when the wind was right , and used Wilson flat above Barre when it wasn't .
Between the unsafe Towne field and the long roundabout back road haul that was necessary to gain access to Wilson flat , arrangements at the state capital were far from satisfactory .
Each time in , the unhappy pilot , pushing his luck , begged the postal officials that met him to find a safer landing place , preferably on the flat-topped hills across the Winooski River .
`` But Fogg '' , they countered , `` we can't get over there .
And besides you seem to make it all right here '' .
It took a tragedy to bring things to a head .
After a week of precarious uphill landings and downwind takeoffs , Fogg one day looked down at the shattered yellow wreckage of an Army plane strewn across snow-covered Towne field .
Sent to Montpelier by Secretary Herbert Hoover , Red Cross Aide Reuben Sleight had been killed , and his pilot , Lt. Franklin Wolfe , badly injured .
With the field a blur of white the unfortunate pilot had simply flown into the hillside .
Faced with this situation , Postmaster Charles F. McKenna of Montpelier went with Fogg on a Burlington trip , and together they scouted the terrain on the heights of Berlin .
A long flat known as the St. John field seemed to answer their purpose , and since the Winooski bridges were at last passable , they decided to use it .
With a wary eye on the farmer's bull , Fred Somers of Montpelier and Mr. St. John marked the field with a red table cloth .
As a wind direction indicator , they tied a cotton rag to a sapling .
With these aids , and a pair of skiis substituting for wheels on the Waco , Bob Fogg made the first landing on what is now part of the Barre-Montpelier Airport on November 21 , 1927 .
Each trip saw the front cockpit filled higher with mail pouches .
During the second week of operations , Fogg received a telegram from the Post Office Department , asking him to `` put on two airplanes and make two flights daily , plus one Sunday trip '' .
Since Fogg's was a one-man , one-plane flying service , this meant that he would have to do both trips , flying alone 600 miles a day , under sub-freezing temperature conditions .
Over the weeks , America's first Star Route Air Mail settled into a routine pattern despite the vagaries of weather and the lack of ground facilities and aids to navigation .
Each morning at five Fogg crawled out of bed to bundle into flying togs over the furnace register of his home .
Always troubled by poor circulation in his feet , he experimented with various combinations of socks and shoes before finally adopting old-style felt farmer's boots with his sheepskin flying boots pulled over them .
A sheep-lined leather flying suit , plus helmet , goggles and mittens completed his attire for the rigors of the open cockpit .
The airman's stock answer to `` Weren't you cold '' ? ?
Became `` Yes , the first half hour is tough , but by then I'm so numb I don't notice it '' ! !
As daylight began to show through the frosty windows , Fogg would place a call to William A. Shaw at the U. S. Weather Station at Northfield , Vermont , for temperature and wind-velocity readings .
Shaw could also give the flyer a pretty good idea of area visibility by a visual check of the mountains to be seen from his station .
`` Ceilings '' were judged by comparison with known mountain heights and cloud positions .
Later on in the day Fogg could get a better weather picture from the Burlington Weather Bureau supervised by Frank E. Hartwell .
Out at the airport each morning , Fogg's skilled mechanic Caleb Marston would have the Waco warmed up and running in the drafty hangar .
( He'd get the engine oil flowing with an electric heater under a big canvas cover .
) Wishing to show that aviation was dependable and here to stay , Bob Fogg always made a point of taking off each morning on the dot of seven , disregarding rain , snow and sleet in true postal tradition .
Concord learned to set its clocks by the rackety bark of the Whirlwind's exhaust overhead .
Sometimes the pilot had to turn back if fully blocked by fog , but 85% of his trips were completed .
Plane radios were not yet available , and once in the air , Fogg flew his ship by compass , a good memory for landmarks as seen from above , and a capacity for dead reckoning and quick computation .
Often , threading through the overcast , he was forced to fly close to the ground by a low ceiling , skimming above the Winooski or the White River along the line of the broken railroad .
When driving rain or mist socked in one valley , Fogg would chandelle up and over to reverse course and try another one , ranging from the Ottauquechee up to Danville in search of safe passage through the mountain passes .
The dependable Wright engine was never stopped on these trips .
It ticked over smoothly , idling while Fogg exchanged mails with the armed messenger from Burlington at Fort Ethan Allen , and one from Montpelier and Barre at the St. John field .
Sometimes , on a return trip , the aviator would `` go upstairs '' high over the clouds .
There he'd take a compass reading , figure his air speed , and deduce that in a certain number of minutes he'd be over the broad meadows of the Merrimack Valley where it would be safe to let down through the overcast and see the ground before it hit him .
Bob Fogg didn't have today's advantages of Instrument Flight and Ground Control Approach systems .
At the end of the calculated time he'd nose the Waco down through the cloud bank and hope to break through where some feature of the winter landscape would be recognizable .
Usually back in Concord by noon , there was just time to get partially thawed out , refuel , and grab a bit of Mrs. Fogg's hot broth before starting the second trip .
Day after day Fogg shuttled back and forth on his one-man air mail route , until the farmers in their snowy barnyards and the road repairmen came to recognize the stubby plane as their link with the rest of the country .
The flyer had his share of near-misses .
At Fort Ethan Allen the ever-present wind off Lake Champlain could readily flip a puny man-made thing like an airplane if the pilot miscalculated .
Once the soldiers from the barracks had to hold the ship from blowing away while Fogg revved the engine and got the tail up .
At a nod of his head they let go , turning to cup their ears against the icy slipstream .
Tracks in the snow showed the plane was airborne in less than a hundred feet .
One afternoon during a cold , powdery snowstorm , Fogg took off for Concord from the St. John field .
Are you retiring now ? ?
If so , are you saying , `` Where did the last few years go ? ?
How did I get to be sixty-five so fast ? ?
What do I do now '' ? ?
Yes , retirement seems to creep upon you suddenly .
Somehow we old-timers never figured we would ever retire .
We always thought we would die with our boots on .
Out of the blue comes talk of pension plans .
Compulsory retirement at sixty-five looms on our horizon .
Still , it seems in the far future .
Suddenly , one day , up it pops ! !
Sixty-five years and you've had it ! !
So , now what ? ?
Oh sure ! !
You've thought about it before in a hazy sort of way .
But ! !
It never seemed real ; ;
never seemed as if it could happen to you ; ;
only to the other fellow .
Now ! !
Here it is ! !
How am I going to live ? ?
What am I going to do ? ?
Where do I go from here ? ?
A great many retired people are the so-called white collar workers .
Are you one of these ? ?
If so , you are of the old school .
You are conscientious , hard working , honest , accurate , a good penman , and a stickler for a job well done , with no loose ends .
Everything must balance to the last penny .
Also you can spell , without consulting a dictionary for every other word .
You never are late for work and seldom absent .
Actually , you can take no special credit for this .
It is the way you were taught and your way of life .
All this is standard equipment for a man of your day ; ;
your stock in trade ; ;
your livelihood .
However , the last few years of your life , things seem to be changing .
Your way doesn't seem to be so darned important any more .
You realize you are getting in the old fogy class .
To put it bluntly , you are getting out-moded .
What's happened ? ?
The answer is a new era .
Now , looming on the horizon are such things as estimated totals , calculated risks and I.B.M. machines .
The Planning Dept. comes into existence .
All sorts of plans come to life .
This is followed by a boom in conferences .
Yes sir ! !
Conferences become very popular .
When a plan burst its seams , hasty conferences supply the necessary patch , and life goes merrily on .
That's called progress ! !
The new way of life ! !
Let's face it ! !
You had your day and it was a good day .
Let this generation have theirs .
Time marches on ! !
Well , to get back to the problem of retirement .
Every retiring person has a different situation facing him .
Some have plenty of money -- some have very little money .
Some are blest with an abundance of good health -- some are in poor health and many are invalids .
Some have lovely homes -- some live in small apartments .
Some have beautiful gardens -- some not even a blade of grass .
Some have serenity of mind , the ability to accept what they have , and make the most of it ( a wonderful gift to have , believe me ) -- some see only darkness , the bitter side of everything .
Well , whatever you have , that's it ! !
You've got to learn to live with it .
Now ! !
The question is `` How are you going to live with it '' ? ?
You can sit back and moan and bewail your lot .
Yes ! !
You can do this .
But , if you do , your life will be just one thing -- unhappiness -- complete and unabridged .
It seems to me , the first thing you've got to do , to be happy , is to face up to your problems , no matter what they may be .
Make up your mind to pool your resources and get the most out of your remaining years of life .
One thing , I am sure of , you must get an interest in life .
You've got to do something .
Many of you will say , `` Well , what can I do '' ? ?
Believe me ! !
There are many , many things to do .
Find out what you like to do most and really give it a whirl .
If you can't think of a thing to do , try something -- anything .
Maybe you will surprise yourself .
True ! !
We are not all great artists .
I , frankly , can't draw a straight line .
Maybe you are not that gifted either , but how about puttering around with the old paints ? ?
You may amaze yourself and acquire a real knack for it .
Anyway , I'll bet you have a lot of fun .
Do you like to sew ? ?
Does making your own clothes or even doll clothes , interest you ? ?
Do you love to run up a hem , sew on buttons , make neat buttonholes ? ?
If you do , go to it .
There is always a market for this line of work .
Some women can sit and sew , crochet , tat or knit by the hour , and look calm and relaxed and turn out beautiful work .
Where sewing is concerned , I'm a total loss .
When you see a needle in my hands you will know the family buttons have fallen off and I have to sew them back on , or get out the safety pins .
Then again , there's always that lovely old pastime of hooking or braiding rugs .
Not for me , but perhaps just the thing for you .
Well ! !
How's about mosaic tile , ceramics or similar arts and crafts ? ?
Some people love to crack tile and it's amazing what beautiful designs they come up with as a result of their cracking good time .
How about the art of cooking ? ?
Do you yearn to make cakes and pies , or special cookies and candies ? ?
There is always an open market for this sort of delicacy , in spite of low calorie diets , cottage cheese and hands-off-all-sweets to the contrary .
Some people can carve most anything out of a piece of wood .
Some make beautiful chairs , cabinets , chests , doll houses , etc. .
Perhaps you couldn't do that but have you ever tried to see what you could do with a hunk of wood ? ?
Outside of cutting your fingers , maybe you would come up with nothing at all , but then again , you might turn out some dandy little gadgets .
Some women get a real thrill out of housework .
They love to dust , scrub , polish , wax floors , move the furniture around from place to place , take down the curtains , put up new ones and have themselves a real ball .
Maybe that's your forte .
It certainly isn't mine .
I can look at furniture in one spot year in and year out and really feel for sure that's where it belongs .
Perhaps you would like to become a writer .
This gives you a wide and varied choice .
Will it be short stories , fiction , nonfiction , biography , poetry , children's stories , or even a book if you are really ambitious ? ?
Ever since I was a child , I have always had a yen to try my hand at writing .
If you do decide to write , you will soon become acquainted with rejection slips and dejection .
Don't be discouraged ! !
This is just being a normal writer .
Just let the rejection slips fall where they may , and keep on plugging , and finally you will make the grade .
Few new writers have their first story accepted , so they tell me .
But , it could happen , and it may happen to you .
Then there's always hobbies , collecting stamps , coins , timetables , salt and pepper shakers , elephants , dogs , dolls , shells , or shall we just say collecting anything your heart desires ? ?
I can hear some of you folks protesting .
You say , `` But it costs a lot of money to have a hobby .
I haven't got that kind of money '' .
True ! !
It does cost a lot of money for most hobbies but there are hobbies that are for free .
How about a rock collection , or a collection of leaves from different trees or shrubs and in different colors ? ?
Then , take flowers .
They are many and varied .
Also , there's scrap books , collecting newspaper pictures and clippings , or any items of interest to you .
It's getting interested in something that counts .
As for me , I am holding in reserve two huge puzzles ( I love puzzles ) to put together when time hangs heavy on my hands .
So far , the covers have never been off the boxes .
I just don't have time to do half the things I want to do now .
So in closing , fellow retired members , I advise you to make the most of each day , enjoy each one to the n'th degree .
Travel , if you can .
Keep occupied to the point you are not bored with life and you will truly find these final days and years of your lives to be sunshine sweet .
Good Luck ! !
To one and all -- Good Days ahead ! !
An important criterion of maturity is creativity .
The mature person is creative .
What does it mean to be creative , a term we hear with increasing frequency these days ? ?
When we turn to Noah Webster we find him helpful as usual .
`` To be creative is to have the ability to cause to exist -- to produce where nothing was before -- to bring forth an original production of human intelligence or power '' .
We are creative , it seems , when we produce something which has not previously existed .
Thus creativity may run all the way from making a cake , building a chicken coop , or producing a book , to founding a business , creating a League of Nations or , developing a mature character .
All living creatures from the lowest form of insect or animal life evidence the power of creativity , if it is only to reproduce a form like their own .
While man shares this procreative function with all his predecessors in the evolutionary process , he is the only animal with a true non-instinctive and conscious creative ability .
An animal , bird or insect creates either a burrow , or nest or hive in unending sameness according to specie .
Man's great superiority over these evolutionary forbears is in the development of his imagination .
This gives him the power to form in his mind new image combinations of old memories , ideas and experiences and to project them outside of himself into his environment in new and ever-changing forms .
It has been truly said that anything man can imagine he can produce or create by projecting this inner image into its counterpart in the objective world .
In our own time we have seen the most fantastic imagery of a Jules Verne come into actuality .
The vision of a Lord Tennyson expressed in a poem 100 years ago took visible form over London in the air blitzes of 1941 .
In fact all of our civilized world is the resultant of man's projection of his imagination over the past 60 centuries or more .
It is in this one aspect , at least , that man seems to be made in the image of his Creator .
Not only can man project his imagination out into his environment in concrete forms , but even more importantly , he can turn it inward to help create new and better forms of himself .
We recognize that young people through imaginative mind and body training can become athletes , acrobats , dancers , musicians and artists , developing many potentialities .
We know that actors can learn to portray a wide variety of character roles .
By this same combination of the will and the imagination , each one of us can learn to portray permanently the kind of character we would like to be .
We must realize with Prof. Charles Morris in his The Open Self that `` Man is the being that can continually remake himself , the artisan that is himself the material for his own creation '' .
So far in history man has been too greatly over-occupied with projecting things into his environment rather than first creating the sort of person who can make the highest use of the things he has created .
Is not the present world crisis a race between things we have created which can now destroy us and between populations of sufficient wisdom and character to forestall the tragedy .
Is it not the obligation of us older citizens to lend our weight to being creative on the character side and to hasten our own maturing process ? ?
Sir Julian Huxley in his book Uniqueness Of Man makes the novel point that just as man is unique in being the only animal which requires a long period of infancy and childhood under family protection , so is he the only animal who has a long period after the decline of his procreativity .
Some recent writings assume that the ignorant young couples are a thing of the remote , Victorian past ; ;
that nowadays all honeymooners are thoroughly familiar with the best sex-manuals and know enough from talk with friends and personal experimentation to take all the anxiety and hazards out of the situation .
Perhaps -- but extensive discussions with contemporary practitioners , family doctors and gynecologists indicate that this is still an area of enormous ignorance .
Joking and talking may be freer and easier , but the important factual information is still lacking for far too many newly-married men and women .
Various factors in the setting can still be of great advantage in making the first intercourse a good rather than a bad memory for one or both .
Privacy must be highly assured both in time and place .
That is , locking the room or stateroom door gives privacy of location , but it is equally important to be sure there is time enough for an utterly unhurried fulfillment .
If the wedding party lasted late , and the travel schedule means there are only a few hours before resuming the trip or making an early start , the husband may forestall tensions and uncertainties by confiding to his bride that lying in each other's arms will be bliss enough for these few hours .
The consummation should come at the next stopping place when they have a long private time ( day or night ) for that purpose .
First intercourse for the bride brings with it the various problems connected with virginity and the hymen .
One thing should be clear to both husband and wife -- neither pain nor profuse bleeding has to occur when the hymen is ruptured during the first sex act .
Ignorance on this point has caused a great deal of needless anxiety , misunderstanding and suspicion .
The hymen is , in essence , a fragile membrane that more or less completely covers the entrance to the vagina in most female human beings who have not had sex relations .
( Hymen , in fact , is the Greek word for membrane .
)
Often it is thin and fragile and gives way readily to the male organ at the first attempt at intercourse .
As might be expected , girls in this situation bleed very little and perhaps not at all in the process of losing their virginity .
It is also important to realize that many girls are born without a hymen or at most only a tiny trace of one ; ;
so that the absence of the hymen is by no means positive proof that a girl has had sex relations .
But there is a basis in fact for the exaggerations of the folk-lore beliefs .
Some hymens are so strongly developed that they cannot be torn without considerable pain to the girl and marked loss of blood .
More rarely , the hymen is so sturdy that it does not yield to penetration .
Extreme cases are on record in which the doctor has had to use instruments to cut through the hymen to permit marital relations to be consummated .
These cases , for all their rarity , are so dramatic that friends and relations repeat the story until the general population may get an entirely false notion of how often the hymen is a serious problem to newly-weds .
In recent times , when sexual matters began to be discussed more scientifically and more openly , the emotional aspects of virginity received considerable attention .
Obviously , the bridal pair has many adjustments to make to their new situation .
Is it necessary to add to the other tensions the hazard of making the loving husband the one who brought pain to his bride ? ?
Gynecologists and marriage manuals began to advise that the bride should consult a physician before marriage .
If he foresaw any problem because of the quality of the hymen , it was recommended that simple procedures be undertaken at once to incise the hymen or , preferably , to dilate it .
As a natural outgrowth of this approach it was often suggested that the doctor should complete the preparation for painless intercourse by dilating the vagina .
This recommendation was based on the fact that the hymen was not the only barrier to smooth consummation of the sex act .
The vagina is an organ capable of remarkable contraction and dilation .
This is obvious when it is remembered that , during childbirth , the vagina must dilate enough to permit the passage of the baby .
The intricate system of muscles that manage the contraction and dilatation of the vagina are partly under voluntary control .
But an instinctive reflex may work against the conscious intention of the woman .
That is , when first penetration takes place , the pressure and pain signals may involuntarily cause all the vaginal muscles to contract in an effort to bar the intrusion and prevent further pain .
The advantages of dilatation by the physician are both physical and psychological .
Since it is a purely professional situation , none of the pain is associated with love-making or the beloved .
By using instruments of gradually increasing size , the vagina is gently , and with minimum pain at each stage , taught to yield to an object of the appropriate shape .
In this process the vaginal muscles come under better conscious control by the girl .
She learns how to relax them to accept -- instead of contracting them to repel -- the entering object .
Apart from the standard problem of controlling the vaginal muscles , other serious barriers may exist that need special gynecological treatment .
It is far better to have such conditions treated in advance than to have them show up on the honeymoon where they can create a really serious situation .
When no medical problems exist , the newly married couple generally prefer to cope with the adjustments of their new relationship by themselves .
Special information and guidance about the possible difficulties are still of great value .
Folk-lore , superstition and remembered passages from erotic literature can create physical and emotional problems if blindly taken as scientific facts and useful hints .
The importance of loving tenderness is obvious .
The long , unhurried approach and the deliberate prolongation of fore-play work on several levels .
Under the excitement of caresses and sexual stimulation the vagina relaxes and dilates and the local moisture greatly increases , providing an excellent lubricant to help achieve an easier penetration .
Extensive observations by physicians during vaginal examinations have established the fact that a single finger inserted along the anterior wall ( the top line of the vagina as the woman lies on her back ) may cause a great deal of distress in a virgin .
But during the same examination , two fingers may be inserted along the posterior wall ( the bottom of the vagina in the same position ) without any pain ; ;
and in fact without any difficulty if the pressure is kept downward at all times .
These regional differences of sensitivity to pain may be of crucial significance during the earliest intercourse .
The husband and wife should start with this anatomical information clearly in mind .
They may then adjust their positions and movements to avoid too much pressure on the urethra and the anterior wall of the vagina ; ;
at least until repeated intercourse has dilated it and pain is no longer a possible threat against the full pleasure of love-making .
In fact , the technical procedure in medical examinations may be wisely adapted to his romantic purposes by the husband during the honeymoon .
Locker-room talk often stresses the idea that a man is doing the girl a favor if he is forceful and ruthless during the first penetration .
The false reasoning is that a gradual advance prolongs the pain while a swift powerful act gets it over with and leaves the girl pleased with his virility and grateful for his decisiveness in settling the problem once and for all .
Such talk is seriously in error .
Ruthlessness at this time can be a very severe shock to the bride , both physically and psychologically .
The insistent , forceful penetration may tear and inflame the vaginal walls as well as do excessive damage to the hymen .
The pain and distress associated with the performance may easily give the wife a deep-seated dread of marital relations and cause her , unconsciously , to make the sex act unpleasant and difficult for both by exercising her vaginal muscles to complicate his penetration instead of relaxing them to facilitate it .
Serious attention must also be given to the husband's problems in the honeymoon situation .
The necessity for keeping alert to his bride's hazards can act as an interference with the man's spontaneous desire .
The emotional stimulation may be so great that he may experience a premature climax .
This is a very common experience and should in no way discourage or dishearten either husband or wife .
Or the frequent need to check and discipline himself to the wisest pace of the consummation can put him off stride and make it impossible for him to be continuously ready for penetration over a long period .
The signals to proceed may therefore come when he is momentarily not able to take advantage of them .
