There was a finality in the rhythm of the prayer -- it was the end of a life , the end of hope , and the wondering if there would ever be another beginning .
Meltzer stayed with Alfred , and when the door opened they both came out .
Alfred was dressed for his trip to the hospital .
The car was waiting for him .
Alfred , leaning on Meltzer , stopped for a minute to look at Tessie .
She didn't turn away from the window .
Alfred nodded a little nod and went out through the door .
Outside , his brother Harry was waiting for him -- he had come to say good-bye .
Alfred walked past him without a word and got into the car .
Harry ran to the side of the car where Alfred was sitting and looked at him , begging him to speak .
Alfred looked straight ahead .
The car began to move and Harry ran after it crying , `` Alfred ! !
Alfred ! !
Speak to me '' .
But the car moved off and Alfred just looked straight ahead .
Harry followed the car until it reached the main road and turned towards Kingston .
He stood there watching until it had gone from his sight .
I went to visit Alfred in the Kingston Hospital a few times .
The first time I went there he asked me to bring him water from Flagler's well -- water that reminded him of his first days in the mountains -- and before I came the next time I filled a five-gallon jug for him and brought it to the hospital .
I don't think he ever got to drink any of it .
The jug stayed at the hospital and the water -- what can happen to water ? ?
-- it evaporated , disappeared , and came back to the earth as rain -- maybe for another well or another stream or another Alfred Alpert .
12 `` where is it written '' ? ?
Mr. Banks was always called Banks the Butcher until he left town and the shop passed over to Meltzer the Scholar who then became automatically Meltzer the Butcher .
Meltzer was a boarder with the Banks family .
He came to Fleischmanns directly from the boat that brought him to America from Russia .
He was a learned man and a very gentle soul .
He was filled with knowledge of the Bible and the Talmud .
He knew the whyfores and the wherefores but he was weak , very weak , on the therefores .
Banks the Butcher took Meltzer the Scholar as an apprentice and he made it very clear that a man of learning must be able to do more than just quote the Commentaries of the Talmud in order to live .
So Meltzer learned a new trade from Banks , who supplied the town and the hotels with meat .
Banks had a family -- a wife , a daughter , and a son .
The daughter , Lilly , was a very good friend of mine and I always had hopes that someday she and Meltzer would find each other .
They lived in the same house and it didn't seem to be such a hard thing to do , but the sad realities of Lilly's life and the fact that Meltzer didn't love her never satisfied my wishful thinking .
Banks the Butcher was a hard master and a hard father , a man who didn't seem to know the difference between the living flesh of his family and the hanging carcasses of his stock in trade .
He treated both with equal indifference and with equal contempt ; ;
perhaps he was a little more sympathetic to the sides of beef that hung silently from his hooks .
Lilly Banks and I became friends .
She was the opposite of everything she should have been -- a positive pole in a negative home , a living reaction of warmth and kindness to the harsh reality of her father .
And Lilly's whole family seemed to be an apology for Mr. Banks .
Her brother Karl was a very gentle soul , her mother was a quiet woman who said little but who had hard , probing eyes .
For every rude word of Mr. Banks's the family had five in apology .
Every chance I got I left the hotel to visit Lilly .
I was free but she was bound to her duties that not even the coming of Meltzer lightened .
She had to clean the glass on the display cases in the butcher shop , help her brother scrub the cutting tables with wire brushes , mop the floors , put down new sawdust on the floors and help check the outgoing orders .
When these chores were finished , only then , was she allowed whatever freedom she could find .
I helped Lilly in the store .
To me it was a game , to her it was the deadly seriousness of life .
I wanted to help so that we could find time to play .
And Lilly allowed me to help so that she could have her few little hours of escape .
When the work was finished , we would walk .
The road past the butcher shop took us along the side of a stream .
It ran north , away from the town and the people , through woods and past the nothingness of a graveyard .
Lilly preferred the loneliness of that walk .
I would have liked the town and the busyness of its people but I always followed Lilly into the peace of the silent and unstaring road .
It wasn't hard to understand .
To me Lilly was a fine and lovely girl .
To people who didn't know her she was a gawky , badly dressed kid whose arms were too long , whose legs were a little too bony .
She had the hips of a boy and a loose-jointed walk that reminded me of a string of beads strolling down the street .
And she had the kind of crossed eyes that shocked .
It was unexpected , unexpected because Lilly walked with her head bent down , down , and her mark of friendship was to look into your face .
I accepted her crossed eyes as she accepted my childishness ; ;
childishness compared to her grown-up understanding that life was a punishment for as yet undisclosed sins .
We were almost the same age , she was fifteen , I was twelve , and where I felt there was a life to look forward to Lilly felt she had had as much of it as was necessary .
When we went for our walks Lilly's brother would come along every once in a while .
Karl was an almost exact copy of his father physically and it was strange to see the expected become the unexpected .
This huge hulk played the guitar and he would take it along on our walks and play for us as we sat alone in the woods or by the stream .
Karl played well and his favorite song was a Schubert lullaby .
He spoke no German but he could sing it and the words of the song were the only ones he knew in a foreign language .
The song , he said , was called `` The Stream's Lullaby '' , and when he sang , `` Gute ruh , Gute ruh , Mach't die augen zu , '' there was such longing and such simple sadness that it frightened me .
Later , when I was older , I found the song was part of Schubert's Die Schone Mullerin .
And even hearing it in a concert hall surrounded by hundreds of people the words and the melody would make me a little colder and I would reach out for my husband's hand .
The brother and sister seemed to be a sort of mutual-aid society , a little fortress of kindness for each other in a hard world .
I felt very flattered to be included in the protection of their company even though I had nothing to be protected from .
The turn of the century , or to be more precise , the two decades preceeding and following it , marks a great change in the history of early English scholarship .
At the bottom of this change were great strides forward in the technical equipment and technical standards of the historian .
In archaeology , for example , the contributions of Frederick Haverfield and Reginald Smith to the various volumes of the Victoria County Histories raised the discipline from the status of an antiquarian pastime to that of the most valuable single tool of the early English historian .
And with the publication of E. T. Leeds' Archaeology Of The Anglo-Saxon Settlements the student was presented with an organized synthesis of the archaeological data then known .
What was true for archaeology was also true of place-name studies .
The value of place-names in the reconstruction of early English history had long been recognized .
Place-names , in fact , had been extensively utilized for this purpose from the time of Camden onwards .
Without a precise knowledge of Germanic philology , however , it is debatable whether their use was not more often a source of confusion and error than anything else .
Even in the nineteenth century such accomplished philologists as Kemble and Guest were led into what now seem ludicrous errors because of their failure to recognize that modern forms of place names are not necessarily the result of logical philological development .
It was therefore not until the publication of J.H. Round's `` The Settlement Of The South And East Saxons '' , and W.H. Stevenson's `` Dr. Guest And The English Conquest Of South Britain '' , that a scientific basis for place-name studies was established .
Diplomatic is another area for which the dawn of the twentieth century marks the beginning of modern standards of scholarship .
Although because of the important achievements of nineteenth century scholars in the field of textual criticism the advance is not so striking as it was in the case of archaeology and place-names , the editorial principles laid down by Stevenson in his great edition of Asser and in his Crawford Charters were a distinct improvement upon those of his predecessors and remain unimproved upon today .
In sum , it can be said that the techniques and standards of present day have their origin at the turn of the century .
And it is this , particularly the establishment of archaeology and place-name studies on a scientific basis , which are immediately pertinent to the Saxon Shore .
Almost inevitably , the first result of this technological revolution was a reaction against the methods and in many cases the conclusions of the Oxford school of Stubbs , Freeman and ( particularly ) Green regarding the nature of the Anglo-Saxon conquest of Britain .
Even before the century was out the tide of reaction had set in .
Charles Plummer in the introduction and notes to his splendid edition of Bede voiced some early doubts concerning the `` elaborate superstructure '' they raised up over the slim foundations afforded by the traditional narratives of the conquest .
It was Plummer , in fact , who coined the much quoted remark : `` Mr. Green indeed writes as if he had been present at the landing of the Saxons and had watched every step of their subsequent progress '' .
Sir Henry Howorth , writing in 1898 , put himself firmly in the Lappenburg-Kemble tradition by attacking the veracity of the West Saxon annals .
Early in the present century , W. H. Stevenson continued the attack with a savage article against Guest .
Following him in varying degrees of scepticism were T.W. Shore , H.M. Chadwick , Thomas Hodgkin and F. G. Beck .
By 1913 , Ferdinand Lot could begin an article subtitled `` La Conquete De La Grande-Bretagne par Les Saxons '' with the words , `` Il est difficile aujourd'hui d'entretenir des illusions sur la valeur du recit traditionnel de la conquete de la Grande-Bretagne .
'' It is also worthy of note that Lot cited both Kemble and Lappenberg with favor in that article .
It would seem that the wheel had turned full circle .
In fact , modern scholarly opinion in the main has not retreated all the way back to the destructive scepticism of the first half of the nineteenth century .
Although one meets with occasional extremists like Zachrisson or , very recently , Arthur Wade-Evans the majority of scholars have taken a middle position between the extremes of scepticism and gullibility .
Most now admit that Bede , Gildas , Nennius and The Anglo-Saxon Chronicles cannot be the infallible guides to early English history that Guest , Freeman and Green thought them to be .
As R.H. Hodgkin has remarked : `` The critical methods of the nineteenth century shattered most of this picturesque narrative .
On the other hand , the consensus of opinion is that , used with caution and in conjunction with other types of evidence , the native sources still provide a valid rough outline for the English settlement of southern Britain .
As Sir Charles Oman once said , `` it is no longer fashionable to declare that we can say nothing certain about Old English origins '' .
Therefore , in one way Kemble and Lappenberg have been vindicated .
Their conclusions concerning the untrustworthiness of the West Saxon annals , the confused chronology of Bede , the unreliability of the early positions of the Anglo-Saxon genealogies and the mythological elements contained in Nennius are now mostly accepted .
Nevertheless , in another way modern historians still labor in the vineyard of the Oxford school .
For it is their catastrophic concept of the Anglo-Saxon invasions rather than Kemble's gradualist approach which dominates the field .
Despite the rejection of the traditional accounts on many points of detail , as late as 1948 it was still possible to postulate a massive and comparatively sudden ( beginning in ca. 450 ) influx of Germans as the type of invasions .
At this point , of course , the issue has become complicated by a development unforeseen by Lappenberg and Kemble .
They , however much they were in disagreement with the late Victorians over the method by which Britain was Germanized , agreed with them that the end result was the complete extinction of the previous Celtic population and civilization .
But beginning , for all practical purposes , with Frederick Seebohm's English Village Community scholars have had to reckon with a theory involving institutional and agrarian continuity between Roman and Anglo-Saxon times which is completely at odds with the reigning concept of the Anglo-Saxon invasions .
Against Seebohm formidable foes have taken the field , notably F. W. Maitland , whose Domesday Book And Beyond was written expressly for this purpose , and Sir Paul Vinogradoff whose The Growth Of The Manor had a similar aim .
Largely due to their efforts the catastrophic invasion-theory has maintained its position although Seebohm has always found supporters .
H.L. Gray in his English Field Systems and Zachrisson's Romans , Kelts And Saxons defended in part the Seebohm thesis while at the present time H.P.R. Finberg and Gordon Copley seem to fall into the Celtic survivalist camp .
This is nevertheless a minority view .
Most scholars , while willing to accept a survival ( revival ? ?
) of Celtic art forms and a considerable proportion of the Celtic population , reject any institutional legacy from pre-Anglo-Saxon Britain .
Therefore , it is plain that the clear distinctions of the nineteenth century are no longer with us .
In the main stream of historical thinking is a group of scholars , H.M. Chadwick , R.H. Hodgkin , Sir Frank Stenton et al. who are in varying degrees sceptical of the native traditions of the conquest but who defend the catastrophic type of invasion suggested by them .
They , in effect , have compromised the opposing positions of the nineteenth century .
On the other side are the Celtic survivalists who have taken a tack divergent from both these schools of nineteenth century thought .
As a group they should be favorable to a concept of gradual Germanic infiltration although the specialist nature of much of their work , e.g. Seebohm , Gray and Finberg , tends to obscure their sympathies .
Those who do have occasion to deal with the invasions in a more general way , like T.W. Shore and Arthur Wade-Evans , are on the side of a gradual and often peaceful Germanic penetration into Britain .
Wade-Evans , in fact , denies that there were any Anglo-Saxon invasions at all other than a minor Jutish foray in A.D. 514 .
Now omitting for a moment some recent developments we can say the Saxon Shore hypothesis of Lappenberg and Kemble has undergone virtual eclipse in this century .
It is no longer possible to say that a sceptical attitude towards the received accounts of the invasions almost automatically produces a `` shore occupied by '' interpretation .
Everyone is more or less sceptical and virtually no one has been willing to accept Lappenberg or Kemble's position on that point .
One reason is , of course , that the new scepticism has been willing to maintain the general picture of the invasions as portrayed in the traditional sources .
The few scholars who have adopted the `` shore occupied by '' interpretation , Howorth , Shore , and Wade-Evans , have all been Celtic survivalists .
Moreover , they have done so in rather special circumstances .
The primary reason for the abandonment of the `` shore occupied by '' thesis has been the assimilation and accumulation of archaeological evidence , the most striking feature of early English studies in this century .
Again omitting recent developments , E.T. Leeds' dictum of 1913 has stood unchallenged : `` So far as archaeology is concerned , there is not the least warrant for the second ( shore occupied by ) of these theories '' .
Even earlier Haverfield had come to the same conclusion .
What they meant was that there was no evidence to show that the south and east coasts of Britain received Germanic settlers conspicuously earlier than some other parts of England .
That is , there was no trace of Anglo-Saxons in Britain as early as the late third century , to which time the archaeological evidence for the erection of the Saxon Shore forts was beginning to point .
In the face of a clear judgment from archaeology , therefore , it became impossible for a time for scholars to re-adopt the `` shore settled by '' theory .
In recent years , however , a wind of change seems to be blowing through early English historical circles .
The great increase in the amount of archaeological activity , and therefore information , in the years immediately preceeding and following the Second World War has brought to light data which has changed the complection of the Saxon Shore dispute .
Where there were none fifteen years ago , several scholars currently are edging their way cautiously towards the acceptance of the `` shore occupied by '' position .
We must , therefore , have a look at the new archaeological material and re-examine the literary and place-name evidence which bears upon the problem .
What exactly are we trying to prove ? ?
We know that the Saxon Shore was a phenonenon of late Roman defensive policy ; ;
in other words its existence belongs to the period of Roman Britain .
So whenever the Romans finally withdrew from the island , the Saxon Shore disappeared in the first decade of the fifth century .
We also know that the Saxon Shore as reflected in the Notitia was created as a part of the Theodosian reorganization of Britain ( post A.D. 369 ) .
My argument is that there was no Saxon Shore prior to that time even though the forts had been in existence since the time of Carausius .
Therefore , what we must prove or disprove is that there were Saxons , in the broad sense in which we must construe the word , in the area of the Saxon Shore at the time it was called the Saxon Shore .
That is , we must find Saxons in East Anglia , Kent , Sussex and Hampshire in the last half of the fourth century .
The problem , in other words , is strictly a chronological one .
In Gaul the Saxon element on its Saxon Shore was plainly visible because there the Saxons were an intrusive element in the population .
In Britain , obviously , the archaeological and place-name characteristics of the Saxon Shore region are bound to be Saxon .
It is a matter of trying to sort out an earlier fourth-century Saxon element from the later , fifth-century mainstream of Anglo-Saxon invasions .
This , naturally , will be difficult to do since both the archaeological and place-name evidence in this period , with some fortunate exceptions , is insufficient for precise chronological purposes .
It might be well to consider the literary evidence first because it can provide us with an answer to one important question ; ;
namely , is the idea that there were Saxon mercenaries in England at all reasonable ? ?
To do so , something was necessary beyond volunteering because there was little glamour or romance in the European war ; ;
it meant instead hardship , dirt , and death .
Baker gave Leonard Wood credit for the initiation of the draft of soldiers ; ;
from the General's idea a chain reaction occurred .
Wood took the proposal to Chief of Staff Hugh L. Scott , who passed it on to Baker a month before the actual declaration of war against Germany .
The Secretary of War gave his assent after studying the history of the draft in the American Civil War as well as the British volunteer system in World War 1 .
He concluded that selective service would not only prevent the disorganization of essential war industries but would avoid the undesirable moral effects of the British reliance on enlistment only -- `` where the feeling of the people was whipped into a frenzy by girls pinning white feathers on reluctant young men , orators preaching hate of the Germans , and newspapers exaggerating enemy outrages to make men enlist out of motives of revenge and retaliation '' .
Baker took the plan to Wilson who said : `` Baker , this is plainly right on any ground .
Start to prepare the necessary legislation so that if I am obliged to go to Congress the bills will be ready for immediate consideration '' .
The result was that by secret agreement draft machinery was actually ready long before the country knew that the device was to take the place of the volunteering method which Theodore Roosevelt favored .
Before the Draft Act was passed Baker had confidentially briefed governors , sheriffs , and prospective draft board members on the administration of the measure -- and the confidence was kept so well that only one newspaper learned what was going on .
It was Baker , working through Provost Marshal Enoch Crowder and Major Hugh S. ( `` Old Ironpants '' ) Johnson , who arranged for a secret printing by the million of selective service blanks -- again before the Act was passed -- until corridors in the Government Printing Office were full and the basement of the Washington Post Office was stacked to the ceiling .
General Crowder proposed that Regular Army officers select the draftees in cities and towns throughout the nation ; ;
it was Baker who thought of lessening the shock , which conscription always brings to a country , by substituting `` Greetings from your neighbors '' for the recruiting sergeant , and registration in familiar voting places rather than at military installations .
Even so , the Draft Act encountered rough sledding in its progress through the Congress .
Democratic Speaker Champ Clark saw little difference between a conscript and a convict .
Democrat Stanley H. Dent , Chairman of the House Military Affairs Committee , declined to introduce the bill .
Democratic Floor Leader Claude Kitchin would have no part of the measure .
In the judgment of Chief of Staff Scott it was ironic that the draft policy of a Democratic President , aimed at Germany , had to be pushed through the House of Representatives by the ranking minority member of the Military Affairs Committee -- a Republican Jew born in Germany ! !
He was Julius Kahn for whom the Chief of Staff thought no honor could be too great .
After Kahn's death in 1924 Scott wrote : `` May he rest in peace with the eternal gratitude of his adopted country '' .
In spite of powerful opposition the Draft Act finally passed Congress on May 17 , 1917 .
In early June ten million young men registered by name and number .
The day passed without incident in spite of the warning of Senator James A. Reed of Missouri : `` Baker , you will have the streets of our American cities running with blood on registration day '' .
On July 20 , the first drawing of numbers occurred in the Senate Office Building before a distinguished group of congressmen and high Army officers .
Secretary of War Baker , blindfolded , put his hand into a large glass bowl and drew the initial number of those to be called .
It was 258 .
A man in Mississippi wired : `` Thanks for drawing 258 -- that's me '' .
He was the first of 2,800,000 called to the Army through the selective service system .
It was one thing to call men to the colors ; ;
it was another to house , feed , and train them .
The existing Army posts were wholly inadequate .
In a matter of months the War Department built thirty-two camps , each one accommodating fifty thousand men -- sixteen were under canvas in the South and sixteen with frame structures in the North .
It was a gargantuan task ; ;
a typical cantonment in the North had twelve hundred buildings , an electric-sewer-water system , and twenty-five miles of roads .
At Camp Taylor in Kentucky a barracks was built in an hour and a half from timber that had been standing in Mississippi forests one week before .
The total operation was a construction project comparable in magnitude with the Panama Canal , but in 1917 time was in short supply ; ;
in three months the Army spent three-quarters as much as had been expended on the `` big Ditch '' in ten years .
In later years Josephus Daniels was to claim that World War 1 , was the first in American history in which there was great concern for both the health and morals of our soldiers .
It was the first American war in which the death rate from disease was lower than that from battle , due to the provision of trained medical personnel ( of the 200,000 officers , 42,000 were physicians ) , compulsory vaccination , rigorous camp sanitation , and adequate hospital facilities .
To the middle of September 1918 , there had been fewer than 10,000 deaths from disease in the new army .
This enviable record would have been maintained but for a great and unexpected disaster which struck the world with murderous stealth .
It was the influenza pandemic of 1918-19 .
The malady was popularly known as the `` Spanish flu '' from the alleged locale of its origin .
The world-wide total of deaths from `` Spanish flu '' was around twenty million ; ;
in the United States 300,000 succumbed to it .
In mid-September 1918 , the influenza-pneumonia pandemic swept through every American military camp ; ;
during the eight-week blitz attack 25,000 soldiers died from the disease and the death rate ( formerly 5 per year per 1,000 men ) increased almost fifty times to 4 per week per 1,000 men .
In spite of this catastrophe the final mortality figure from disease in the American Army during World War 1 , was 15 per 1,000 per year , contrasted with 110 per 1,000 per year in the Mexican War , and 65 in the American Civil War .
Both Secretary of War Baker and Secretary of Navy Daniels devoted much time and effort to the problem of providing reasonably normal and wholesome activities in camp for the millions of men who had been removed from their home environment .
Their policy ran counter to the traditional idea that a good fighter was usually a libertine , and that in sex affairs `` God-given passion '' was a proof of manliness .
Baker moved first ; ;
six days after war was declared he appointed Raymond Fosdick chairman of the Commission on Training Camp Activities ( the CTCA ) .
Fosdick , a brother of minister Harry Emerson Fosdick , was a graduate of Princeton , and a member of Phi Beta Kappa and the American Philosophical Association .
His assignment was not a new one because Baker had sent him to the Mexican border in 1916 to investigate lurid newspaper stories about lack of discipline , drunkenness , and venereal disease in American military camps .
Fosdick had found the installations surrounded by a battery of saloons and houses of prostitution , with filles de joie from all over the country flocking to San Antonio , Laredo , and El Paso to `` woman the cribs '' .
He also ascertained that many officers were indifferent to the problem , including Commanding General Frederick Funston who gave Fosdick the nickname of `` Reverend '' .
On the basis of the long chronicle of military history Funston and his brethren assumed that the issue was insoluble and that anyone interested in a mission like Fosdick's was an impractical idealist or a do-gooder .
During the brief Mexican venture Fosdick's report to the Secretary recommended a definite stand by the War Department against the saloon and the excesses of prostitution .
The problem involved military necessity as much as morality , for in pre-penicillin days venereal disease was a crippling disability .
Fosdick insisted that a strong word was needed from Washington , and it was immediately forthcoming .
Baker put the `` cribs '' and the saloons out of bounds , ordered the co-operation of military officers with local law authorities , and told communities that the troops would be moved unless wholesome conditions were restored .
Both Baker and Fosdick knew that a substitute was necessary , that a verboten approach was not the real answer .
They were aware that soldiers went to town , in more ways than one , because of the monotony of camp life , to find the only release available in the absence of movies , reading rooms , and playing fields with adequate athletic equipment .
Both knew that when trains stopped at Texan crossroads bored soldiers would sometimes enter to ask the passengers if they had any reading material to spare , even a newspaper .
There was no time in the short Mexican encounter to evolve a solution but the area provided a proving ground for new departures in the near future .
When the United States entered the First World War Baker made certain that the Draft Act of 1917 prohibited the sale of liquor to men in uniform and that it provided for broad zones around the camps in which prostitution was outlawed .
Even so Fosdick , as the new Chairman of the Commission on Training Camp Activities , encountered strong and vociferous opposition .
New Orleans had a notorious red-light district extending over twenty-eight city blocks , and the business-minded mayor of the city journeyed to Washington to present the case for `` the God-given right of men to be men '' .
In Europe , Premier Clemenceau , showing his animal proclivities as the `` Tiger of France '' , asked Pershing by letter for the creation of special houses where the sexual desires of American men could be satisfied .
When Fosdick showed the letter to Baker his negative response was : `` For God's sake , Raymond , don't show this to the President or he'll stop the war '' .
Ultimately Fosdick's `` Fit to fight '' slogan swept across the country and every well-known red-light district in the United States was closed , a hundred and ten of them .
The result was that the rate of venereal disease in the American Army was the lowest in our military history .
This was the negative side of the situation .
Affirmatively Baker worked on the premise that `` young men spontaneously prefer to be decent , and that opportunities for wholesome recreation are the best possible cure for irregularities in conduct which arise from idleness and the baser temptations '' .
The wholesome activities were to be provided by many organizations including the YMCA , the Knights of Columbus , the Jewish Welfare Board , the American Library Association , and the Playground and Recreation Association -- private societies which voluntarily performed the job that was taken over almost entirely by the Special Services Division of the Army itself in World War 2 .
Over these voluntary agencies , in 1917-18 , the CTCA served as a co-ordinating body in carrying out what Survey called `` the most stupendous piece of social work in modern times '' .
Under Fosdick the first executive officer of the CTCA was Richard Byrd , whose name in later years was to become synonymous with activities at the polar antipodes .
From the point of view of popularity the best-known member of the Commission was Walter Camp , the Yale athlete whose sobriquet was `` the father of American football '' .
He was placed in charge of athletics , and among other things adapted the type of calisthenics known as the daily dozen .
The CTCA program of activities was profuse : William Farnum and Mary Pickford on the screen , Elsie Janis and Harry Lauder on the stage , books provided by the American Library Association , full equipment for games and sports -- except that no `` bones '' were furnished for the all-time favorite pastime played on any floor and known as `` African golf '' .
The CTCA distributed a khaki-bound songbook that provided the impetus for spirited renditions of the selections found therein , plus a number of others whose lyrics were more earthy -- from `` Johnny Get Your Gun '' to `` Keep The Home Fires Burning '' to `` Mademoiselle From Armentieres '' .
In the imagination of the nineteenth century the Greek tragedians and Shakespeare stand side by side , their affinity transcending all the immense contrarieties of historical circumstance , religious belief , and poetic form .
We no longer use the particular terms of Lessing and Victor Hugo .
But we abide by their insight .
The word `` tragedy '' encloses for us in a single span both the Greek and the Elizabethan example .
The sense of relationship overreaches the historical truth that Shakespeare may have known next to nothing of the actual works of Aeschylus , Sophocles , and Euripides .
It transcends the glaring fact that the Elizabethans mixed tragedy and comedy whereas the Greeks kept the two modes severely distinct .
It overcomes our emphatic awareness of the vast difference in the shape and fabric of the two languages and styles of dramatic presentation .
The intimations of a related spirit and ordering of human values are stronger than any sense of disparity .
Comparable visions of life are at work in Antigone and Romeo And Juliet .
We see at once what Victor Hugo means when he calls Macbeth a northern scion of the house of Atreus .
Elsinore seems to lie in a range of Mycenae , and the fate of Orestes resounds in that of Hamlet .
The hounds of hell search out their quarry in Apollo's sanctuary as they do in the tent of Richard 3 .
Oedipus and Lear attain similar insights by virtue of similar blindness .
It is not between Euripides and Shakespeare that the western mind turns away from the ancient tragic sense of life .
It is after the late seventeenth century .
I say the late seventeenth century because Racine ( whom Lessing did not really know ) stands on the far side of the chasm .
The image of man which enters into force with Aeschylus is still vital in Phedre and Athalie .
It is the triumph of rationalism and secular metaphysics which marks the point of no return .
Shakespeare is closer to Sophocles than he is to Pope and Voltaire .
To say this is to set aside the realness of time .
But it is true , nevertheless .
The modes of the imagination implicit in Athenian tragedy continued to shape the life of the mind until the age of Descartes and Newton .
It is only then that the ancient habits of feeling and the classic orderings of material and psychological experience were abandoned .
With the Discours de la methode and the Principia the things undreamt of in Horatio's philosophy seem to pass from the world .
In Greek tragedy as in Shakespeare , mortal actions are encompassed by forces which transcend man .
The reality of Orestes entails that of the Furies ; ;
the Weird Sisters wait for the soul of Macbeth .
We cannot conceive of Oedipus without a Sphinx , nor of Hamlet without a Ghost .
The shadows cast by the personages of Greek and Shakespearean drama lengthen into a greater darkness .
And the entirety of the natural world is party to the action .
The thunderclaps over the sacred wood at Colonus and the storms in King Lear are caused by more than weather .
In tragedy , lightning is a messenger .
But it can no longer be so once Benjamin Franklin ( the incarnation of the new rational man ) has flown a kite to it .
The tragic stage is a platform extending precariously between heaven and hell .
Those who walk on it may encounter at any turn ministers of grace or damnation .
Oedipus and Lear instruct us how little of the world belongs to man .
Mortality is the pacing of a brief and dangerous watch , and to all sentinels , whether at Elsinore or on the battlements at Mycenae , the coming of dawn has its breath of miracle .
It banishes the night wanderers to fire or repose .
But at the touch of Hume and Voltaire the noble or hideous visitations which had haunted the mind since Agamemnon's blood cried out for vengeance , disappeared altogether or took tawdry refuge among the gaslights of melodrama .
Modern roosters have lost the art of crowing restless spirits back to Purgatory .
In Athens , in Shakespeare's England , and at Versailles , the hierarchies of worldly power were stable and manifest .
The wheel of social life spun around the royal or aristocratic centre .
From it , spokes of order and degree led to the outward rim of the common man .
Tragedy presumes such a configuration .
Its sphere is that of royal courts , dynastic quarrels , and vaulting ambitions .
The same metaphors of swift ascent and calamitous decline apply to Oedipus and Macbeth because they applied also to Alcibiades and Essex .
And the fate of such men has tragic relevance because it is public .
Agamemnon , Creon , and Medea perform their tragic actions before the eyes of the polis .
Similarly the sufferings of Hamlet , Othello , or Phedre engage the fortunes of the state .
They are enacted at the heart of the body politic .
Hence the natural setting of tragedy is the palace gate , the public square , or the court chamber .
Greek and Elizabethan life and , to a certain extent , the life of Versailles shared this character of intense `` publicity '' .
Princes and factions clashed in the open street and died on the open scaffold .
With the rise to power of the middle class the centre of gravity in human affairs shifted from the public to the private .
The art of Defoe and Richardson is founded on an awareness of this great change .
Heretofore an action had possessed the breadth of tragedy only if it involved high personages and if it occurred in the public view .
Behind the tragic hero stands the chorus , the crowd , or the observant courtier .
In the eighteenth century there emerges for the first time the notion of a private tragedy ( or nearly for the first time , there having been a small number of Elizabethan domestic tragedies such as the famous Arden Of Feversham ) .
In La Nouvelle-Heloise and Werther tragedy is made intimate .
And private tragedy became the chosen ground not of drama , but of the new , unfolding art of the novel .
The novel was not only the presenter of the new , secular , rationalistic , private world of the middle class .
It served also as a literary form exactly appropriate to the fragmented audience of modern urban culture .
I have said before how difficult it is to make any precise statements with regard to the character of the Greek and Elizabethan public .
But one major fact seems undeniable .
Until the advent of rational empiricism the controlling habits of the western mind were symbolic and allegoric .
Available evidence regarding the natural world , the course of history , and the varieties of human action were translated into imaginative designs or mythologies .
Classic mythology and Christianity are such architectures of the imagination .
They order the manifold levels of reality and moral value along an axis of being which extends from brute matter to the immaculate stars .
There had not yet supervened between understanding and expression the new languages of mathematics and scientific formulas .
The poet was by definition a realist , his imaginings and parables being natural organizations of reality .
And in these organizations certain primal notions played a radiant part , radiant both in the sense of giving light and of being a pole toward which all perspectives converge .
I mean such concepts as the presence of the supernatural in human affairs , the sacraments of grace and divine retribution , the idea of preordainment ( the oracle over Oedipus , the prophecy of the witches to Macbeth , or God's covenant with His people in Athalie ) .
I refer to the notion that the structure of society is a microcosm of the cosmic design and that history conforms to patterns of justice and chastisement as if it were a morality play set in motion by the gods for our instruction .
These conceptions and the manner in which they were transposed into poetry or engendered by poetic form are intrinsic to western life from the time of Aeschylus to that of Shakespeare .
And although they were , as I have indicated , under increasing strain at the time of Racine , they are still alive in his theatre .
They are the essential force behind the conventions of tragedy .
They are as decisively present in the Oresteia and Oedipus as in Macbeth , King Lear , and Phedre .
After the seventeenth century the audience ceased to be an organic community to which these ideas and their attendant habits of figurative language would be natural or immediately familiar .
Concepts such as grace , damnation , purgation , blasphemy , or the chain of being , which are everywhere implicit in classic and Shakespearean tragedy , lose their vitality .
They become philosophic abstractions of a private and problematic relevance , or mere catchwords in religious customs which had in them a diminishing part of active belief .
After Shakespeare the master spirits of western consciousness are no longer the blind seers , the poets , or Orpheus performing his art in the face of hell .
They are Descartes , Newton , and Voltaire .
And their chroniclers are not the dramatic poets but the prose novelists .
The romantics were the immediate inheritors of this tremendous change .
They were not yet prepared to accept it as irremediable .
Rousseau's primitivism , the anti-Newtonian mythology of Blake , Coleridge's organic metaphysics , Victor Hugo's image of the poets as the Magi , and Shelley's `` unacknowledged legislators '' are related elements in the rear-guard action fought by the romantics against the new scientific rationalism .
From this action sprang the idea of somehow uniting Greek and Shakespearean drama into a new total form , capable of restoring to life the ancient moral and poetic responses .
The dream of achieving a synthesis between the Sophoclean and the Shakespearean genius inspired the ambitions of poets and composers from the time of Shelley and Victor Hugo to that of Bayreuth .
It could not really be fulfilled .
The conventions into which the romantics tried to breath life no longer corresponded to the realities of thought and feeling .
But the attempt itself produced a number of brilliant works , and these form a transition from the early romantic period to the new age of Ibsen and Chekhov .
The wedding of the Hellenic to the northern genius was one of the dominant motifs in Goethe's thought .
His Italian journey was a poet's version of those perennial thrusts across the Alps of the German emperors of the Middle Ages .
The dream of a descent into the gardens of the south always drew German ambitions toward Rome and Sicily .
Goethe asks in Wilhelm Meister whether we know the land where the lemon trees flower , and the light of the Mediterranean glows through Torquato Tasso and the Roman Elegies .
Goethe believed that the Germanic spirit , with its grave strength but flagrant streaks of brutality and intolerance , should be tempered with the old sensuous wisdom and humanism of the Hellenic .
On the narrower ground of poetic form , he felt that in the drama of the future the Greek conception of tragic fate should be joined to the Shakespearean vision of tragic will .
The wager between God and Satan brings on the destiny of Faust , but Faust assumes his role voluntarily .
The third Act of Faust 2 , is a formal celebration of the union between the Germanic and the classic , between the spirit of Euripides and that of romantic drama .
The motif of Faust's love for Helen of Troy goes back to the sources of the Faustian legend .
It tells us of the ancient human desire to see the highest wisdom joined to the highest sensual beauty .
There can be no greater magic than to wrest from death her in whom the flesh was all , in whom beauty was entirely pure because it was entirely corruptible .
It is thus that the brightness of Helen passes through Marlowe's Faustus .
Goethe used the fable to more elaborate ends .
Faust rescuing Helen from Menelaus' vengeance is the genius of renaissance Europe restoring to life the classic tradition .
The necromantic change from the palace at Sparta to Faust's Gothic castle directs us to the aesthetic meaning of the myth -- the translation of antique drama into Shakespearean and romantic guise .
This translation , or rather the fusion of the two ideals , creates the Gesamtkunstwerke , the `` total art form '' .
The Bishop of Gloucester described the elder Thomas in 1577 as the richest recusant in his diocese , worth five hundred pounds a year in lands and goods .
When Quiney and William Parsons wrote to Greville in 1593 asking his consent in the election for bailiff , they sent the letter to Mr. William Sawnders , attendant on the worshipful Mr. Thomas Bushell at Marston .
Mr. Bushell was mentioned in 1602 in the will of Joyce Hobday , widow of a Stratford glover .
Thomas the elder married twice , had seventeen children , and died in 1615 .
His daughter Elinor married Quiney's son Adrian in 1613 , and his son Henry married Mary Lane of Stratford in 1609 .
His son Thomas , aged fifteen when he entered Oxford in 1582 , married as his first wife Margaret , sister of Sir Edward Greville .
Bridges , a son by his second wife , was christened at Pebworth in 1607 , but Thomas the younger was living at Packwood two years later and sold Broad Marston manor in 1622 .
A third Thomas Bushell ( 1594-1674 ) , `` much loved '' by Bacon , called himself `` The Superlative Prodigall '' in The First Part of Youths Errors ( 1628 ) and became an expert on silver mines and on the art of running into debt .
Edward Greville , born about 1565 , had inherited Milcote on the execution of his father Lodowick for murder in 1589 .
He refused his consent to the election of Quiney as bailiff in 1592 , but gave it at the request of the recorder , his cousin Sir Fulke Greville .
The corporation entertained him for dinner at Quiney's house in 1596/7 , with wine and sugar sent by the bailiff , Sturley .
At Milcote on November 3 , 1597 , the aldermen asked him to support their petition for a new charter .
Sturley wrote to Quiney that Sir Edward `` gave his allowance and liking thereof , and affied unto us his best endeavour , so that his rights be preserved '' , and that `` Sir Edward saith we shall not be at any fault for money for prosecuting the cause , for himself will procure it and lay it down for us for the time '' .
Greville proposed Quiney as the fittest man `` for the following of the cause and to attend him in the matter '' , and at his suggestion the corporation allowed Quiney two shillings a day .
`` If you can firmly make the good knight sure to pleasure our Corporation '' , Sturley wrote , `` besides that ordinary allowance for your diet you shall have 20 for recompence '' .
In his letter mentioning Shakespeare on January 24 , 1597/8 , Sturley asked Quiney especially that `` theare might ( be ) bi Sir Ed. Grev. some meanes made to the Knightes of the Parliament for an ease and discharge of such taxes and subsedies wherewith our towne is like to be charged , and I assure u I am in great feare and doubte bi no meanes hable to paie .
Sir Ed. Gre. is gonne to Brestowe and from thence to Lond. as I heare , who verie well knoweth our estates and wil be willinge to do us ani good '' .
The knights for Warwickshire in this parliament , which ended its session on February 9 , were Fulke Greville ( the poet ) and William Combe of Warwick , as Fulke Greville and Edward Greville had been in 1593 .
The corporation voted on September 27 , 1598 , that Quiney should ride to London about the suit to Sir John Fortescue , chancellor of the Exchequer , for discharging of the tax and subsidy .
He had been in London for several weeks when he wrote to Shakespeare on October 25 .
Sturley on November 4 answered a letter from Quiney written on October 25 which imported , wrote Sturley , `` that our countriman Mr. Wm. Shak. would procure us monei : which I will like of as I shall heare when , wheare & howe : and I prai let not go that occasion if it mai sort to ani indifferent condicions .
Allso that if monei might be had for 30 or 40 a lease & might be procured '' .
Sturley quoted Quiney as having written on November 1 that if he had `` more monei presente much might be done to obtaine our Charter enlargd , ij faires more , with tole of corne , bestes , and sheepe , and a matter of more valewe then all that '' .
Sturley thought that this matter might be `` the rest of the tithes and the College houses and landes in our towne '' .
He suggested offering half to Sir Edward , fearing lest `` he shall thinke it to good for us and procure it for himselfe , as he served us the last time '' .
This refers to what had happened after the Earl of Warwick died in 1590 , when the town petitioned Burghley for the right to name the vicar and schoolmaster and other privileges but Greville bought the lordship for himself .
Sturley's allusion probably explains why Greville took out the patent in the names of Best and Wells , for Sir Anthony Ashley described Best as `` a scrivener within Temple Bar , that deals in many matters for my L. Essex '' through Sir Gelly Merrick , especially in `` causes that he would not be known of '' .
Adrian Quiney wrote to his son Richard on October 29 and again perhaps the next day , since the bearer of the letter , the bailiff , was expected to reach London on November 1 .
In his second letter the old mercer advised his son `` to bye some such warys as yow may selle presentlye with profet .
Yff yow bargen with Wm. Sha. ( so in the MS ) or Receave money ther or brynge your money home yow maye see howe knite stockynges be sold ther ys gret byinge of them at Aysshom .
Wherefore I thynke yow maye doo good yff yow can have money '' .
This seems to refer , not to the loan Richard had asked for , but to a proposed bargain with Shakespeare .
Richard Quiney the younger , a schoolboy of eleven , wrote a letter in Latin asking his father to buy copybooks ( `` chartaceos libellos ) '' ) for him and his brother .
His mother Bess , who could not write herself , reminded her husband through Sturley to buy the apron he had promised her and `` a suite of hattes for 5 boies the yongst lined & trimmed with silke '' ( for John , only a year old ) .
A letter signed `` Isabell Bardall '' entreated `` Good Cozen '' Quiney to find her stepson Adrian , son of George Bardell , a place in London with some handicraftsman .
William Parsons and William Walford , drapers , asked Quiney to see to business matters in London .
Daniel Baker deluged his `` Unckle Quyne '' with requests to pay money for him to drapers in Watling Street and at the Two Cats in Canning Street .
His letter of October 26 named two of the men about whom Quiney had written to Shakespeare the day before .
Baker wrote : `` I tooke order with Sr. E. Grevile for the payment of Ceartaine monei beefore his going towardes London .
& synce I did write unto him to dessier him to paie 10 for mee which standeth mee greatly uppon to have paide .
& 20 more Mr. Peeter Rowswell tooke order with his master to paie for mee '' .
He asked Quiney to find out whether the money had been paid and , if not , to send to the lodging of Sir Edward and entreat him to pay what he owed .
Baker added : `` I pray you delivre these inclosed Letters And Comend mee to Mr. Rychard Mytton whoe I know will ffreind mee for the payment of this monei '' .
Further letters in November mention that Sir Edward paid forty pounds .
Stratford's petition to the queen declared that two great fires had burnt two hundred houses in the town , with household goods , to the value of twelve thousand pounds .
The chancellor of the Exchequer wrote on the petition : `` in myn opinion it is very resonable and conscionable for hir maiestie to graunt in relief of this towne twise afflicted and almost wasted by fire '' .
The queen agreed on December 17 , a warrant was signed on January 27 , and the Exchequer paid Quiney his expenses on February 27 , 1598/9 .
He listed what he had spent for `` My own diet in London eighteen weeks , in which I was sick a month ; ;
my mare at coming up 14 days ; ;
another I bought there to bring me home 7 weeks ; ;
and I was six days going thither and coming homewards ; ;
all which cost me at the least 20 pounds '' .
He was allowed forty-four pounds in all , including fees to the masters of requests , Mr. Fanshawe of the Exchequer , the solicitor general , and other officials and their clerks .
If he borrowed money from Shakespeare or with his help , he would now have been able to repay the loan .
Since more is known about Quiney than about any other acquaintance of Shakespeare in Stratford , his career may be followed to its sudden end in 1602 .
During 1598 and 1599 he made `` manye Guiftes of myne owne provision bestowed uppon Cowrtiers & others for the better effectinge of our suites in hande '' .
He was in London `` searching records for our town's causes '' in 1600 with young Henry Sturley , the assistant schoolmaster .
When Sir Edward Greville enclosed the town commons on the Bancroft , Quiney and others leveled his hedges on January 21 , 1600/1 , and were charged with riot by Sir Edward .
He also sued them for taking toll of grain at their market .
Accompanied by `` Master Greene our solicitor '' ( Thomas Greene of the Middle Temple , Shakespeare's `` cousin '' ) , Quiney tried to consult Sir Edward Coke , attorney general , and gave money to a clerk and a doorkeeper `` that we might have access to their master for his counsel butt colde nott have him att Leasure by the reason of thees trobles '' ( the Essex rising on February 8 ) .
He set down that `` I gave Mr. Greene a pynte of muskadell and a roll of bread that last morning I went to have his company to Master Attorney '' .
After returning Stratford he drew up a defense of the town's right to toll corn and the office of collecting it , and his list of suggested witnesses included his father and Shakespeare's father .
No one , he wrote , took any corn of Greville's , for his bailiff of husbandry `` swore a greate oathe thatt who soe came to put hys hande into hys sackes for anye corne shuld leave hys hande behynde hym '' .
Quiney was in London again in June , 1601 , and in November , when he rode up , as Shakespeare must often have done , by way of Oxford , High Wycombe , and Uxbridge , and home through Aylesbury and Banbury .
After Quiney was elected bailiff in September , 1601 , without Greville's approval , Greene wrote him that Coke had promised to be of counsel for Stratford and had advised `` that the office of bayly may be exercised as it is taken upon you , ( Sr. Edwardes his consent not beinge hadd to the swearinge of you ) '' .
Asked by the townsmen to cease his suit , Greville had answered that `` hytt shulde coste hym 500 first & sayed it must be tried ether before my Lorde Anderson in the countrey or his uncle Ffortescue in the exchequer with whom he colde more prevaile then we '' .
The corporation proposed Chief Justice Anderson for an arbiter , sending him a gift of sack and claret .
Lady Greville , daughter of the late Lord Chancellor Bromley and niece of Sir John Fortescue , was offered twenty pounds by the townsmen to make peace ; ;
she `` labored & thought she shuld effecte '' it but her husband said that `` we shuld wynne it by the sworde '' .
His servant Robin Whitney threatened Quiney , who had Whitney bound to `` the good abaringe '' to keep the peace .
A report of Sr. Edw Grevyles minaces to the Baileefe Aldermen & Burgesses of Stratforde '' tells how Quiney was injured by Greville's men : `` in the tyme Mr. Ryc' Quyney was bayleefe ther came some of them whoe beinge druncke fell to braweling in ther hosts howse wher thei druncke & drewe ther dagers uppon the hoste : att a faier tyme the Baileefe being late abroade to see the towne in order & comminge by in hurley burley came into the howse & commawnded the peace to be kept butt colde nott prevayle & in hys endevor to sticle the brawle had his heade grevouselye brooken by one of hys ( Greville's ) men whom nether hymselfe ( Greville ) punnished nor wolde suffer to be punnished but with a shewe to turne them awaye & enterteyned agayne '' .
The fall of Rome , the discovery of precious metals , and the Protestant Reformation were all links and could only be explained and understood by comprehending the links that preceded and those that followed .
Often the historian must consider the use of intuition or instinct by those individuals or nations which he is studying .
Unconsciously , governments or races or institutions may enter into some undertaking without fully realizing why they are doing so .
They react in obedience to an instinct or urge which has itself been impelled by natural law .
A court may strike down a law on the basis of an intuitive feeling that the law is inimical to the numerical majority .
A nation may go to war on some trifling pretext , when in reality it may have been guided by an unconscious instinct that its very life was at stake .
When the historian encounters a situation in which he can perceive no visible cause and effect sequence , he should be alert to intuition and unconscious instinct as possible guides .
Adams firmly contended that the historian must never underrate the impact of the geographical environment on history .
Here was another indispensable tool .
Indeed , he concluded that `` geographical conditions have exercised a great , possibly a preponderating , influence over man's destiny '' .
The failure of Greece to reach the imperial destiny that Periclean Athens had seemed to promise was almost directly attributable to her physical conformation .
All areas of history were either favorably or adversely affected by the geographical environment , and no respectable historian could pursue the study of history without a thorough knowledge of geography .
Brooks Adams was consistent in his admonishments to historians about the necessary tools or insights they needed to possess .
However , as a practicing historian , he , himself , has left few clues to the amount of professional scholarship that he used when writing history .
In fact , if judgments are to be rendered upon the soundness of his historicism , they must be based on scanty evidence .
What evidence is available would seem to indicate that Brooks , unlike his older brother Henry , had most of the methodological vices usually found in the amateur .
A credulousness , a distaste for documentation , an uncritical reliance on contemporary accounts , and a proneness to assume a theory as true before adequate proof was provided were all evidences of his failure to comprehend the use of the scientific method or to evaluate the responsibilities of the historian to his reading public .
This is not to assume that his work was without merit , but the validity of his assumptions concerning the meaning of history must always be considered against this background of an unprofessional approach .
His credulity is perhaps best illustrated in his introduction to The Emancipation Of Massachusetts , which purports to examine the trials of Moses and to draw a parallel between the leader of the Israelite exodus from Egypt and the leadership of the Puritan clergy in colonial New England .
Much criticism has been leveled at this rather forced analogy , but what is equally significant is Adams' complete acceptance of the Biblical record as `` good and trustworthy history '' .
In light of the scholarly reappraisals engendered by the higher criticism this is a most remarkable statement , particularly coming from one who was well known for his antifundamentalist views .
The desire to substantiate a thesis at the expense of sound research technique smacks more of the propagandist than the historian .
A similar amateurish characteristic is revealed in Adams' failure to check the accuracy and authenticity of his informational sources .
If he found data that fitted his general plan , he used it and counted his sources trustworthy .
Conversely , if statistics were uncovered which contradicted a cherished theory , the sources were denounced as faulty .
Such manipulations are frequently encountered in his essay on the suppression of the monasteries during the English reformation .
Adams depended largely on the dispatches of foreign ambassadors and observers in England , claiming that the reports of such agents had to be accurate because there were no newspapers .
This is certainly an irrational dogmatism , in which the modern mind attempts to understand the spirit of the sixteenth century on twentieth-century terms .
Moreover , he rejects the contemporary accounts of Englishmen , casually adjudging them to be distorted by prejudice because `` the opinions of Englishmen are of no great value '' .
What is exposited by this observation is not the inherent prejudices of Englishmen but the Anglophobia of Brooks Adams .
In all fairness it must be admitted that Adams made no pretense at being an impartial historian .
Impartiality to him meant an unwillingness to generalize and to search for a synthesis .
He deplored the impact of German historiography on the writing of history , terming it a `` dismal monster '' .
Ranke and his disciples had reduced history to a profession of dullness ; ;
Brooks Adams preferred the chronicles of Froissart or the style and theorizing of Edward Gibbon , for at least they took a stand on the issues about which they wrote .
He wrote eloquently to William James that impartial history was not only impossible but undesirable .
If the historian was convinced of his own correctness , then he should not allow his vision to become fogged by disturbing facts .
It was history that must be in error , not the historian .
It was this basic trait that separated Adams from the ranks of professional historians and led him to commit time and time again what was his most serious offense against the historical method -- namely , the tendency to assume the truth of an hypothesis before submitting it to the test of facts .
All of Adams' work reflects this dogmatic characteristic .
No page seems to be complete without the statement of at least one unproved generalization .
One example of this was his assertion that `` all servile revolts must be dealt with by physical force '' .
There is no explanation of terms nor a qualification that most such revolts have been dealt with by force -- only a bald dogmatism that they must , because of some undefined compulsion , be so repelled .
On matters of race he was similarly inflexible : `` Most of the modern Latin races seem to have inherited the rigidity of the Roman mind '' .
He cites the French Revolution as typifying this rigidity but makes no mention of the Italians , who have been able to adapt to all types of circumstances .
He pontificates that `` one of the first signs of advancing civilization is the fall in the value of women in men's eyes '' .
It made no difference that most evidence points to an opposite conclusion .
For Adams had made up his mind before all the facts were available .
All critics of Adams and his methods have observed this particular deficiency .
J. T. Shotwell was appalled by such spurious history as that which attributed the fall of the Carolingian empire to the woolen trade , and he urged Adams to `` transform his essay into a real history , embodying not merely those facts which fit into his theory , but also the modifications and exceptions '' .
A. M. Wergeland called the Adams method literally antihistorical , while Clive Day maintained that the assumptions were not confined to theories alone but were also applicable to straight factual evidence .
Moreover , stated Day , `` He always omits facts which tend to disprove his hypothesis '' .
Even D. A. Wasson , who compared The Emancipation Of Massachusetts to the lifting of a fog from ancient landscapes , was also forced to admit the methodological deficiencies of the author .
In summary , Brooks Adams felt that the nature of history was order and that the order so discovered was as much subject to historical laws as the forces of nature .
Moreover , he believed that most professional historians lacked some of the essential instruments for a proper study of history .
However , despite the insight of many of his observations , his own conclusions are open to suspicion because of his failure to employ at all times the correct research methods .
This should not prejudice an evaluation of his findings , but they were not the findings of a completely impartial investigator .
What was perhaps more important than his concept of the nature of history and the historical method were those forces which shaped the direction of his thought .
In the final analysis his contribution to American historiography was founded on almost intuitive insights into religion , economics , and Darwinism , the three factors which conditioned his search for a law of history .
Religion without supernaturalism
Brooks Adams considered religion as an extremely significant manifestation of man's fear of the unknown .
But it was nothing more than that .
Religion and the churches were institutions which had been created by man , not God .
He did not deny God ; ;
he simply did not believe that a Creator intervened or interfered in human affairs .
The historian need not be concerned with the philosophical problems suggested by religion .
There was no evidence , either of a positive or negative type , of the actions of a Divine Being in this world ; ;
and , since the historian should only be interested in strictly terrestrial activity , his research should eliminate the supernatural .
Furthermore , he must regard religion as the expression of human forces .
Certainly , he must recognize its power and attempt to ascertain its influence on the flow of history , but he must not confuse the natural and the mundane with the divine .
Adams was not breaking new ground when he claimed that the worship of an unseen power was in reality a reflection of man's inability to cope with his environment .
Students of anthropology and comparative religion had long been aware that there was , indeed , a direct connection .
But Adams was one of the first to suggest that this human incompetence was the only motivating factor behind religion .
It was this fear which explained the development of a priestly caste whose function in society was to mollify and appease the angry deities .
To keep themselves entrenched in power , the priests were forced to demonstrate their unique status through the miracle .
It was the use of the supernatural that kept them in business .
The German barbarians of the fourth century offered an excellent example :
`` The Germans in the fourth century were a very simple race , who comprehended little of natural laws , and who therefore referred phenomena they did not understand to supernatural intervention .
This intervention could only be controlled by priests , and thus the invasions caused a rapid rise in the influence of the sacred class .
The power of every ecclesiastical organization has always rested on the miracle , and the clergy have always proved their divine commission as did Elijah '' .
Adams contended that once such a special class had been created it became a vested interest and sought to maintain itself by assuming exclusive control over the relationships between God and man .
Thus , the Church was born and because of its intrinsic character was soon identified as a conservative institution , determined to resist the forces of change , to identify itself with the political rulers , and to maintain a kind of splendid isolation from the masses .
Doctrine was not only mysterious ; ;
it was also sacred , `` and no believer in an inspired church could tolerate having her canons examined as we should examine human laws '' .
These basic ideas concerning the nature of religion were , Adams believed , some of the major keys to the understanding of history and the movement of society .
The dark views about the Puritans found in The Emancipation Of Massachusetts were never altered .
Despite their adherence to the status quo , the forces of organized religion were compelled to make adjustments as increasing civilization augmented human knowledge .
In The Law Of Civilization And Decay Brooks Adams traced this evolution , always pointing to the fact that although the forms became more rational , the substance remained unchanged .
The relic worship and monasticism of the Middle Ages were more advanced forms than were primitive fetish worship and nature myths .
Yet , the idea imbedded in each was identical : to surround the unknown with mystery and to isolate that class which had been given special dominion over the secrets of God .
To Adams that age in which religion exercised power over the entire culture of the race was one of imagination , and it is largely the admiration he so obviously held for such eras that betrays a peculiar religiosity -- a sentiment he would have probably denied .
Stephens had written his classic `` incidents of travel '' about these regions a hundred years before , and Catherwood , who had studied Piranesi in London and the great ruins of Egypt and Greece , had drawn the splendid illustrations that accompanied the text .
Catherwood , an architect in New York , had been forgotten , like Stephens , and Victor reconstructed their lives as one reconstructs , for a museum , a dinosaur from two or three petrified bones .
He had unearthed Stephens's letters in a New Jersey farmhouse and he discovered Stephens's unmarked grave in an old cemetery on the east side of New York , where the great traveller had been hastily buried during a cholera epidemic .
Victor had been stirred by my account of him in Makers And Finders , for Stephens was one of the lost writers whom Melville had seen in his childhood and whom I was bent on resurrecting .
Victor had led an adventurous life .
His metier was the American tropics , and he had lived all over Latin America and among the primitive tribes on the Amazon river .
Well he knew the sleepless nights , the howling sore-ridden dogs and the biting insects in the villages of the Kofanes and Huitotoes .
He had not yet undertaken the great exploit of his later years , the rediscovery of the ancient Inca highway , the route of Pizarro in Peru , but he had climbed to the original El Dorado , the Andean lake of Guatemala , and he had scaled the southern Sierra Nevada with its Tibetan-like people and looked into the emerald mines of Muzo .
As a naturalist living for two years at the headwaters of the Amazon , he had collected specimens for Mexican museums , and he had taken to the London zoo a live quetzal , the sacred bird of the old Mayans .
In fact , he had raised quetzal birds in his camp in the forest of Ecuador .
Moreover , he had spent six months on the Galapagos islands , among the great turtles that Captain Cook had found there , and now and then he would disappear into some small island of the West Indies .
Victor's book on John Lloyd Stephens was largely written in my study in the house at Weston .
I had had my name taken out of the telephone book , and this was partly because of a convict who had been discharged from Sing Sing and who called me night after night .
He said he was a friend of Heywood Broun who had run a free employment bureau for several months during the depression , but the generous Broun to whom I wrote did not know his name and I somehow conceived the morbid notion that the man in question was prowling round the house .
But one day came the voice of a man I had known when he was a boy , and I later remembered that this boy , thirty years before , had struck me as coming to no good .
There had been something sinister about him that warned me against him , -- I had never felt that way about any other boy , -- but when he uttered his name on the telephone I had forgotten this and I was glad to do what he asked of me .
He was a captain , he said , in the army , and on the train to New York his purse and all his money had been stolen , and would I lend him twenty-five dollars to be given him at the General Delivery window ? ?
Never hearing from him again , I remembered the little boy of whom I had had such doubts when he was ten years old .
We lived for a while in a movie melodrama with a German cook and her son who turned out to be Nazis .
Finally we got them out of the house , after the boy had run away four times looking for other Nazis , threatening to murder village schoolchildren and bragging that he was to be the next Fuhrer .
Then he began to have epileptic fits .
We found that a charitable society in New York had a long case-history of the two ; ;
and they agreed to see that the tragic pair would not put poison in anybody else's soup .
To the Weston house came once William Allen Neilson , the president of Smith College who had been one of my old professors and who still called me `` Boy '' when I was sixty .
It reminded me of my other professor , Edward Kennard Rand , of whom I had been so fond when I was at Harvard , the great mediaevalist and classical scholar who had asked me to call him `` Ken '' , saying , `` Age counts for nothing among those who have learned to know life sub specie aeternitatis '' .
I had always thought of that lovable man as many years older than myself , although he was perhaps only twenty years older , and he confirmed my feeling , along with the feeling of both my sons , that teachers of the classics are invariably endearing .
I must have written to say how much I had enjoyed his fine book The Building Of Eternal Rome , and I found he had not regretted giving me the highest mark in his old course on the later Latin poets , although in my final examination I had ignored the questions and filled the bluebook with a comparison of Propertius and Coleridge .
He had written to me about a dinner he had had with the Benedictine monks at St. Anselm's Priory in Washington .
There had been reading at table , especially from two books , Pope Gregory The Great's account of St. Scholastica in his Dialogues and my own The World Of Washington Irving .
He said , `` Some have criticized your book as being neither literary criticism nor history .
Of course it was not meant to be .
Some have felt that Washington Irving comes out rather slimly , but let them look at the title of the book '' .
He felt as I felt about this best of all my books , that it was `` really tops '' .
Two or three times , C. C. Burlingham came to lunch with us in Weston , that wonderful man who lived to be more than a hundred years old and whose birthplace had been my Wall Street suburb .
His reading ranged from Agatha Christie to The Book Of Job and he had an insatiable interest in his fellow-creatures , while his letters were full of gossip about new politicians and old men of letters with whom he had been intimately thrown six decades before .
I could never forget the gaiety with which , when he was both blind and deaf , he let me lead him around his rooms to look at some of the pictures ; ;
and once when he came to see us in New York he walked away in a rainstorm , unwilling to hear of a taxi or even an umbrella , although he was at the time ninety years old .
There were several men of ninety or more whom I knew first or last , all of whom were still productive and most of whom knew one another as if they had naturally come together at the apex of their lives .
I never met John Dewey , whose style was a sort of verbal fog and who had written asking me to go to Mexico with him when he was investigating the cause of Trotsky ; ;
but I liked to think of him at ninety swimming and working at Key West long after Hemingway had moved to Cuba .
At Lee Simonson's house , I had dined with Edith Hamilton , the nonogenarian rationalist and the charming scholar who had a great popular success with The Greek Way .
Then there was Mark Howe and there was Henry Dwight Sedgwick , an accomplished man of letters who wrote in the spirit of Montaigne and produced in the end a formidable body of work .
I saw Sedgwick often before his death at ninety-five , -- he had remarried at the age of ninety , -- and he asked me , when once I returned from Rome , if I knew the Cavallinis in the church of St. Cecilia in Trastevere .
I had to confess that I had missed these frescoes , recently discovered , that he had studied in his eighties .
Sedgwick had chosen to follow the philosophy of Epicurus whom , with his followers , Dante put in hell ; ;
but he defended the doctrine in The Art Of Happiness , and what indeed could be said against the Epicurean virtues , health , frugality , privacy , culture and friendship ? ?
Of Mark Antony De Wolfe Howe the philosopher Whitehead said the Earth's first visitors to Mars should be persons likely to make a good impression , and when he was asked , `` Whom would you send '' ? ?
He replied , `` My first choice would be Mark Howe '' .
This friend of many years came once to visit us in the house at Weston .
Then I spoke at the ninetieth birthday party of W. E. Burghardt Du Bois , who embarked on a fictional trilogy at eighty-nine and who , with The Crisis , had created a Negro intelligentsia that had never existed in America before him .
As their interpreter and guide , he had broken with Tuskegee and become a spokesman of the coloured people of the world .
Mr. Burlingham , -- `` C.C.B. '' -- wrote to me once about an old friend of mine , S. K. Ratcliffe , whom I had first met in London in 1914 and who also came out for a week-end in Weston .
`` Did you ever know a man with greater zest for information ? ?
And his memory , like an elephant's , stored with precise knowledge of men and things and happenings '' .
His wife , Katie , `` as gay as a lark and as lively as a gazelle '' , -- she was then seventy-six , -- had `` a sense of humour that has been denied S.K. , but neither has any aesthetic perceptions .
People and books are enough for them '' .
S.K. was visiting C.C.B. and , not waiting for breakfast , he was off to the University Club , where he spent hours writing obituaries of living Americans for The Manchester Guardian or The Glasgow Herald .
Later , rising ninety , he was beset by publishers for the story of his life and miracles , as he put it , but , calling himself the Needy Knife-grinder , he had spent his time writing short articles and long letters and could not get even a small popular book done .
Then , all but blind , he said there was nothing in Back to Methuselah -- , -- `` G.B.S. ought to have known that '' , -- and `` I look at my bookshelves despairingly , knowing that I can have nothing more to do with them '' .
However , at eighty-five , he had still been busy writing articles , reviewing and speaking , and I had never before known an Englishman who had visited and lectured in three quarters of the United States .
Finally , colleges and clubs took the line that speakers from England were not wanted any longer , even speakers like S.K. , so unlike the novelists and poets who had patronized the Americans for many years .
With their facile generalizations about the United States , these mediocrities , as they often were , had been great successes .
While S.K. did not like Dylan Thomas , I liked his poems very much , but I made the mistake of telling Dylan Thomas so , whereupon he said to me , `` I suppose you think you know all about me '' .
I should have replied , `` I probably know something about the best part of you '' .
But I only thought of that in the middle of the night .
Many years later I went to see S.K. in England , where he was living at Whiteleaf , near Aylesbury , and he showed me beside his cottage there the remains of the road on which Boadicea is supposed to have travelled .
He was convinced that George Orwell's 1984 was nearly all wrong as it applied to England , which was `` driving forward into uncharted waters '' , with the danger of a new tyranny ahead .
`` But however we go , whatever our doom , it will not take the Orwellian shape '' .
With facts mainly in his mind , he was often acute in the matter of style , and he said , `` The young who have as yet nothing to say will try larks with initial letters and broken lines .
But put them before a situation which they are forced to depict '' , -- he was speaking of the Spanish civil war , -- `` and they have no hesitation ; ;
they merely do their best to make it real for others '' .
He looked at her as she spoke , then got up as she was speaking still , and , simply and wordlessly , walked out .
And that was the end .
Or nearly .
He went to the Hotel Mayflower and telegraphed Mencken .
Would he meet him in Baltimore in Drawing Room A , Car Three on the train leaving Washington at nine o'clock next morning ? ?
They would go to New York together , where parties would be piled on weariness and on misery .
But not for long .
Both Alfred Harcourt and Donald Brace had written him enthusiastic praise of Elmer Gantry ( any changes could be made in proof , which was already coming from the printer ) and they had ordered 140,000 copies -- the largest first printing of any book in history .
But none of this could soothe the exacerbated nerves .
On New Year's Eve , Alfred Harcourt drove him up the Hudson to Bill Brown's Training Camp , a well-known establishment for the speedy if temporary rehabilitation of drunkards who could no longer help themselves .
But , in departing , Lewis begged Breasted that there be no liquor in the apartment at the Grosvenor on his return , and he took with him the first thirty galleys of Elmer Gantry .
On January 4 , with the boys back at school and college , Mrs. Lewis wrote Harcourt to say that she was `` through , quite through '' .
`` This whole Washington venture was my last gesture , and it has failed .
Physically as well as mentally I have reached the limit of my endurance .
My last gift to him is complete silence until the book is out and the first heated discussion dies down .
For him to divorce God and wife simultaneously would be bad publicity .
I am really ill at the present moment , and I will go to some sort of a sanitarium to normalize myself '' .
And she withdrew then to Cromwell Hall , in Cromwell , Connecticut .
Harcourt replied : `` I do really hope you can achieve serenity in the course of time .
Of course I hope Hal can also , but those hopes are much more faint '' .
8
on January 8 , 1927 , he returned to the Grosvenor in high spirits , and looking fit .
He had been , he wrote Mencken at once , `` in the country '' , a euphemism for an experience that had not greatly changed him .
Charles Breasted remembers that , before unpacking his bag , he telephoned his bootlegger with a generous order , and almost at once `` the familiar procession of people began milling through our living room at any hour between two P.M. and three A.M. '' .
They were strays of every kind -- university students and journalists , Village hangers-on and barflies , taxi drivers and editors and unknown poets , as well as friends like Elinor Wylie and William Rose Benet , the Van Dorens and Nathan , Rebecca West and Hugh Walpole and Osbert Sitwell , Laurence Stallings , Lewis Browne , William Seabrook , Arthur Hopkins , the Woodwards .
When he came home from his office at the end of the afternoon , Breasted never knew what gathering he should expect to find , but there almost always was one .
He did not neglect his wife in Cromwell Hall , but telephoned her and wrote her with assurances of his continuing interest and of his wish to `` stand behind '' her in their separation and of his hope that there would be no bitterness between them .
She was occupying herself in an attempt to write an article about the variety of houses that they had rented abroad .
He was of unsettled mind as to whether he should go abroad when the Gantry galleys were finished .
For a time , urging Breasted to give up his public relations work and take up writing instead , he hoped to persuade him to become his assistant in research for the labor novel ; ;
if Breasted agreed , they would get a car and tour the country , visiting every kind of industrial center .
When Breasted insisted that this was impossible for him , Lewis decided to go abroad .
He telephoned L. M. Birkhead and asked him and his wife to come to Europe as his guests , but Birkhead declined on the grounds that one of them must be in the United States when Elmer Gantry was published .
Lewis was spending his mornings , with the help of two secretaries , on the galleys of that long novel , making considerable revisions , and the combination of hard work and hard frivolity exhausted him once more , so that he was compelled to spend three days in the Harbor Sanatorium in the last week of January .
Before he made that retreat , he telephoned Earl Blackman in Kansas City and asked him to come to Europe with him .
Blackman was to be in New York by February 2 , because they were sailing at 12:01 next morning .
Lewis told him what clothes he should bring along , and enjoined him not to buy anything that he did not already own , they would do that in New York .
Blackman arrived a day or two early , and Lewis took him to a department store immediately and outfitted him , luggage and all , and then he took him to a party at the Woodwards that went on until four in the morning .
On the evening that they were to sail , Lewis himself gave a party , but he was too indisposed to appear at it .
Woodward took occasion to warn Blackman about Lewis's drinking and urged him to `` try to keep him sober '' .
After a dinner party for which she had come down to New York , Mrs. Lewis and Casanova arrived to see them off , and Elinor Wylie made tart observations that indicated that Lewis had been less discreet than he had promised to be about the real nature of their separation .
Nevertheless , Mrs. Lewis was still solicitous of his condition : let him do as he wished , let him sleep with chambermaids if he must , but , she begged Blackman , try to keep him from drinking a great deal and bring him back in good health .
As they stood at the first-class rail , waving down to his wife and Casanova below , Lewis said , `` Earl , there is Gracie's future husband '' .
And when questioned by ship's reporters about the separation , she said , `` I adore him , and he adores me '' .
Blackman had brought news from Kansas City .
Before his departure , a group of his friends , the Reverend Stidger among them , had given him a luncheon , and Stidger had seen advance sheets of Elmer Gantry .
He was outraged by the book and announced that he had discovered fifty technical errors in its account of church practices .
L. M. Birkhead challenged him to name one and he was silent .
But his rancor did not cease , and presently , on March 13 , when he preached a sermon on the text , `` And Ben-hadad Was Drunk '' , he told his congregation how disappointed he was in Mr. Lewis , how he regretted having had him in his house , and how he should have been warned by the fact that the novelist was drunk all the time that he was working on the book .
But that sermon , like those of hundreds of other ministers , was yet to be delivered .
In London Lewis took the usual suite in Bury Street .
To the newspapers he talked about his unquiet life , about his wish to be a newspaperman once more , about the prevalence of American slang in British speech , about the loquacity of the English and the impossibility of finding quiet in a railway carriage , about his plans to wander for two years `` unless stopped and made to write another book '' .
The Manchester Guardian wondered how anyone in a railway carriage would have an opportunity to talk to Mr. Lewis , since it was well known that Mr. Lewis always did all of the talking .
His English friends , it said , had gone into training to keep up with him vocally and with his `` allegro movements around the luncheon table '' .
The New York Times editorialist wondered just who would stop Mr. Lewis and make him write a book .
Lewis's remarks about his marriage were suggestive enough to induce American reporters to invade the offices of Harcourt , Brace & Company for information , to pursue Mrs. Lewis to Cromwell Hall , and , after she had returned to New York , to ferret her out at the Stanhope on upper Fifth Avenue where she had taken an apartment .
There , to the Evening Post , she emphatically denied the divorce rumors and explained that she had stayed behind because of the schooling of their son , which henceforth would be strictly American .
These rumors of permanent separation started up a whole crop of stories about her .
One had it that a friend , protesting her snobbery , said , `` But , Gracie , you are an American , aren't you '' ? ?
And she replied , `` I was born in America , but I was conceived in Vienna '' .
Lewis himself furthered these tales .
He is said to have reported that once , when she went to a hospital to call on a friend after a serious operation , and the friend protested that it had been `` nothing '' , she replied , `` Well , it was your healthy American peasant blood that pulled you through '' .
With these and similar tales he was entertaining his English friends , all of whom he was seeing when he was not showing Blackman the sights of London and its environs .
At once upon his arrival , he telephoned Lady Sybil Colefax who invited them to tea , and then Lewis decided to give a party as a quick way of rounding up his friends .
He invited Lady Sybil , Lord Thomson , Bechhofer Roberts , and a half dozen others .
It was a dinner party , Lewis had been drinking during the afternoon , and long before the party really got under way , he was quite drunk , with the result that the party broke up even before dinner was over .
Lewis , at the head of the table , would leap up and move around behind the chairs of his guests making remarks that , when not highly offensive , were at least highly inappropriate , and then presently he collapsed and was put to bed .
When Blackman emerged from the bedroom , everyone was gone except the tolerant Lord Thomson , who stayed and chatted with him for half an hour , and then Blackman lay awake most of that night , despairing of what he must expect on the Continent .
Finally , at dawn , he fell asleep , and when he awoke and came into the living room , he found Lewis in his pajamas before the fire , smoking a cigarette .
Blackman said that he wanted to apologize for not having prevented Lewis from making that horrible spectacle of himself , that he should have seized him by the neck at once and forcibly hauled him into his bedroom .
Lewis warned him never to lay a hand on him , and then Blackman asked for his fare back to the United States .
Lewis looked at him and began to cry , and then , saying that he was going to make a promise , he asked Blackman to call the porter and to tell him to take out all the liquor that he did not want .
`` And from now on , for the rest of this trip , I will only drink what you agree that I should drink '' .
Blackman called the porter and had him remove everything but one bottle of brandy , and after that they would have a cocktail or two before dinner , or , on one of their walking trips , beer , or , in France and Italy , wine in moderation .
Lewis gave him a guidebook tour of London and , motoring and walking , took him to Stratford , but the London stay was for only ten days , and on the twentieth they took the train for Southampton , where they spent the night for an early morning Channel crossing .
Near Southampton , in a considerable establishment , lived Homer Vachell , a well-known pulp writer , and his brother , Horace -- both friends of Lewis's .
He suggested that they call on these brothers , who received them pleasantly .
Then they returned to their hotel and got ready for bed .
It was late , and Blackman was ready to go to sleep , but Lewis was not .
He said , `` We had a good time tonight , didn't we , Earl '' ? ?
Earl agreed , and Lewis said that it would have been very different if his wife had been with him .
Then he kept Blackman awake for more than an hour while he did an imaginary dialogue between his wife and himself in which , discussing the evening , he was continually berated .
He began the dialogue by having his wife announce that one does not invade people's homes without warning them that one is coming , and went on from that with the entire catalogue of his social gaucheries .
From 1613 on , if the lists exist , they contain between twenty to thirty names .
As the total number of incepting bachelors in 1629 was , according to Masson ( Life , 1:218 ) and n , two hundred fifty-nine , the twenty-four names listed in the ordo senioritatis for that year constitute slightly less than one tenth of the total number of bachelors who then incepted .
There were four from St. John's and four from Christ's , three from Pembroke , and two from each of the colleges , Jesus , Peterhouse , Queens' , and Trinity , with Caius , Clare , King's , Magdalene , and Sidney supplying one each in the ordo senioritatis .
The list was headed by ( Henry ) Hutton of St. John's who was matriculated from St. John's at Easter , 1625 .
He became a fellow of Jesus in 1629 , proceeded M.A. from Jesus in 1632 , and was proctor in 1639-40 .
The second name was ( Edward ) Kempe , matriculated from Queens' College at Easter , 1625 .
He proceeded M.A. in 1632 , and B.D. in 1639 , being made fellow in 1632 .
He was ordained deacon 16 June and priest 22 December 1633 .
The third name was ( John ) Ravencroft , who was admitted to the Inner Temple in November 1631 .
The fourth name was ( John ) Milton of Christ's College , followed by ( Richard ) Manningham of Peterhouse , who matriculated 16 October 1624 .
Venn gave his B.A. as 1624 , a mistake for 1629 .
Manningham also proceeded M.A. in 1632 and became a fellow of his college in that year .
( John ) Boutflower of Christ's was twelfth in the list , coming from Perse School under Mr. Lovering as pensioner 20 April 1625 under Mr. Alsop .
The fourteenth name was ( Richard ) Buckenham , written Buckman , admitted to Christ's College under Scott 2 July 1625 .
The fifteenth name was ( Thomas ) Baldwin , admitted to Christ's 4 March 1625 under Alsop .
Christ's College was well represented that year in the ordo , and the name highest on the list from that college was Milton's , fourth in the entire university .
Small wonder that Milton later boasted of how well his work had been received there , since he attained a rank in the order of commencing bachelors higher than that of any other inceptor from Christ's of that year .
It is not possible to reconstruct fully the arrangements whereby these honors lists were then made up or even how the names that they contained assumed the order in which we find them .
The process usually began with a tutor boasting about a boy , as Chappell had boasted about Lightfoot , to the higher officers of the college and university .
Then the various officers of the college might take up the case .
It would , however , reach the proctors and other officers in charge of the public-school performances of the incepting bachelors , and the place that any individual obtained in the lists depended greatly on how he comported himself in the public schools during his acts therein as he was incepting .
Of course the higher officials could add or place a name on the list wherever they wished .
Milton's name being fourth is neither too high nor too low to be assigned to the arbitrary action of vice-chancellor , proctor , master , or other mighty hand .
He evidently earned the place assigned him .
Recapitulation of Milton's undergraduate career
Looking back from the spring of 1629 over the four years of Milton's undergraduate days , certain phases of his college career stand out as of permanent consequence to him and hence to us .
Of course the principal factor in the whole experience was the kind of education he received .
It differed from what an undergraduate receives today from any American college or university mainly in the certainty of what he was forced to learn compared with the loose and widely scattered information obtained today by most of our undergraduates .
Milton was required to absorb and display an intensive and accurate knowledge of Latin grammar , logic-rhetoric , ethics , physics or natural philosophy , metaphysics , and Latin , Greek , and Hebrew .
He had also sampled various special fields of learning , being unable to miss some study of divinity , Justinian ( law ) , and Galen ( medicine ) .
Above all , he had learned to write formal Latin prose and verse to a remarkable degree of artistry .
He had learned to dispute devastatingly , both formally and informally in Latin , and according to the rules on any topic , pro or con , drawn from almost any subject , more especially from Aristotle's works .
He could produce carefully constructed orations , set and formal speeches , artfully and prayerfully made by writing and rewriting with all the aid his tutor and others could provide , and then delivered verbatim from memory .
He had also learned to dispute extempore remarkably well , the main evidence for which of course is the presence of his name in the honors list of 1628/29 .
He also displayed the ability to write Latin verse on almost any topic of dispute , the verses , of course , to be delivered from memory .
Then we have surviving at least one instance of a poem prepared for another , in Naturam non Pati Senium , and perhaps also the De Idea Platonica .
But his greatest achievement , in his own eyes and in the eyes of his colleagues and teachers , was his amazing ability to produce literary Latin pieces , and he was often called on to do so .
These were his public academic activities , domi forisque , in the college and in the university .
And his performances attracted much attention , as the frequency of his surviving pieces in any calendar that may be set up for his undergraduate activities testifies .
His other activities are not so easily recovered .
His statements about sports and exercises of a physical nature are suggestive , but inconclusive .
His later boastings of his skill with the small sword are indicative of much time and practice devoted to the use of that weapon .
Venn and others have dealt with sports and pastimes at Cambridge in Milton's day with not very specific results .
Milton himself , uncommunicative as he is about his lesser and nonliterary activities , at least gives us some evidence that he was a great walker , under any and all conditions .
His early poems and some of his prose prolusions speak of wanderings in the city and the neighboring country that may be extended to Cambridge and its surrounding countryside .
The town itself and the `` reedy Cam '' he often visited , as did all in the university .
The churches , the taverns , and the various other places of the town must have known his figure well as he roved to and about them .
The tiny hamlet of Chesterton to the north , with the fens and marshes lying on down the Ouse River , may have attracted him often , as it did many other youths of the time .
The Gog Magog Hills to the southeast afforded him and all other students a vantage point from which to view the town and university of their dwelling .
The country about Cambridge is flat and not particularly spectacular in its scenery , though it offers easy going to the foot traveler .
Ball games , especially football , required some attention , and other organized sports may have attracted him as participant or spectator .
He smoked , as did everybody , and imbibed the various alcoholic beverages of that day , although his protestations while at Cambridge and after that he was no drunkard point to reasonable abstinence from the wild drinking bouts of some of the undergraduates and , we must add , of some of their elders including many of the regents or teachers .
What manner of person does Milton appear to have been when as an undergraduate he resided at Christ's College ? ?
He was then a slightly built young man of pleasing appearance , medium stature , and handsome face .
Graceful as his fencing and dancing lessons had taught him to be in addition to the natural grace of his slight , wiry frame , he cut enough of a figure to have evoked a nickname in the college , to which he himself referred in Prolusion 6 : :
A quibusdam , , audivi nuper Domina .
That is , if we can trust that most specious of prolusions , packed as it is with wit and persiflage .
The Domina sounds real enough , if we could only trust the conditions under which we learn of its use ; ;
but anyone who would put much trust in any phase of Prolusion 6 , except its illusive allusiveness deserves whatever fate may be meted out to him by virtue of the egregiously stilted banter .
In short , the traditional epithet for Milton of ' Lady of Christ's ' , while eminently fitting , rests only on this baffling passage in the midst of the most treacherous piece of writing Milton left us .
Aubrey's mention of it ( 2:67 , and Bodleian MS Aubr. 8 , F. 63 ) comes from this prolusion , through Christopher Milton or Edward Phillips .
It is not a question of truth or falsity ; ;
the prolusion in which the autobiographic statement about the epithet occurs is such a mass of intentionally buried allusions that almost nothing in it can be accepted as true -- or discarded as false .
The entire exercise , Latin and English , is most suggestive of the kind of person Milton had become at Christ's during his undergraduate career ; ;
the mere fact that he was selected , though as a substitute , to act as interlocutor or moderator for it , or perhaps we should say with Buck as ' father of the act ' , is in itself a difficult phase of his development to grasp .
Milton was to act as the archfool , the supreme wit , the lightly bantering pater , Pater Liber , who could at once trip lightly over that which deserved such treatment , or could at will annihilate the common enemies of the college gathering , and with words alone .
From an exercise involving merely raucous , rough-and-tumble comedy , in his hands the performance turned into a revel of wit and word play , indecent at times , but always learned , pointed , and carefully aimed at some individuals present , and at the whole assembly .
To do this successfully required great skill and a special talent for both solemn and ribald raillery , a talent not bestowed on many persons , but one with which Milton was marked as being endowed and in which , at least in this performance , he obviously reveled .
It may be thought unfortunate that he was called on entirely by accident to perform , if again we may trust the opening of the oratio , for it marks the beginning for us of his use of his peculiar form of witty word play that even in this Latin banter has in it the unmistakable element of viciousness and an almost sadistic delight in verbally tormenting an adversary .
But the real beginnings of this development in him go back to the opposing of grammar school , and probably if it had not been this occasion and these Latin lines it would have been some others , such as the first prolusion , that set off this streak in him of unbridled and scathing verbal attack on an enemy .
All western Europe would hear and listen to him in this same vein about the middle of the century .
But these prolusions that we have surviving from the Christ's College days are only one phase of his existence then .
Perhaps his most important private activity was the combination of reading , discussion with a few -- if we can trust his writings to Diodati and the younger Gill , very few -- congenial companions .
Lines 23-36 of Lycidas later point to a friendship with Edward King , who entered Christ's College 9 June 1626 .
No other names among the young men in residence at the time seem to have been even suggested by Milton as those of persons with whom he in any way consorted .
But that scarcely means that he was the aloof , forbidding type of student who shared few if any activities with his fellows , the banter of the surviving prolusions providing enough evidence to deny this .
Apparently he was not a participant in the college or university theatricals , which he once attacked as utterly unworthy performances ( see Apology , 3:300 ) ; ;
but even in that famous passage , Milton was aiming not at the theatricals as such but at their performance by ' persons either enter'd , or presently to enter into the ministry .
The fact that he nowhere mentioned theatrical performances as part of the activities of the boys later in his hypothetical academy ( 1644 ) should not be taken too seriously as evidence that he desired them to eschew such performances .
Perhaps , in that short piece or letter written to Hartlib in which he sketched his scheme for educating young men , he merely overlooked that phase of their exercises .
Writers of this class of science fiction have clearly in mind the assumptions that man can master the principles of this cause-and-effect universe and that such mastery will necessarily better the human lot .
On the other hand , the bright vision of the future has been directly stated in science fiction concerned with projecting ideal societies -- science fiction , of course , is related , if sometimes distantly , to that utopian literature optimistic about science , literature whose period of greatest vigor in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries produced Edward Bellamy's Looking Backward and H. G. Wells's A Modern Utopia .
In Arthur Clarke's Childhood's End ( 1953 ) , though written after the present flood of dystopias began , we can see the bright vision of science fiction clearly defined .
Childhood's End -- apparently indebted to Kurd Lasswitz's Utopian romance , Auf Zwei Planeten ( 1897 ) , and also to Wells's Histories Of The Future , especially , The World Set Free ( 1914 ) and The Shape Of Things To Come ( 1933 ) -- describes the bloodless conquest of earth by the Overlords , vastly superior creatures who come to our world in order to prepare the human race for its next stage of development , an eventual merging with the composite mind of the universe .
Arriving just in time to stop men from turning their planet into a radioactive wasteland , the Overlords unite earth into one world in which justice , order , and benevolence prevail and ignorance , poverty , and fear have ceased to exist .
Under their rule , earth becomes a technological utopia .
Both abolition of war and new techniques of production , particularly robot factories , greatly increase the world's wealth , a situation described in the following passage , which has the true utopian ring : `` Everything was so cheap that the necessities of life were free , provided as a public service by the community , as roads , water , street lighting and drainage had once been .
A man could travel anywhere he pleased , eat whatever he fancied -- without handing over any money '' .
With destructive tensions and pressures removed men have the vigor and energy to construct a new human life -- rebuilding entire cities , expanding facilities for entertainment , providing unlimited opportunities for education -- indeed , for the first time giving everyone the chance to employ his talents to the fullest .
Mankind , as a result , attains previously undreamed of levels of civilization and culture , a golden age which the Overlords , a very evident symbol of science , have helped produce by introducing reason and the scientific method into human activities .
Thus science is the savior of mankind , and in this respect Childhood's End only blueprints in greater detail the vision of the future which , though not always so directly stated , has nevertheless been present in the minds of most science-fiction writers .
Considering then the optimism which has permeated science fiction for so long , what is really remarkable is that during the last twelve years many science-fiction writers have turned about and attacked their own cherished vision of the future , have attacked the Childhood's End kind of faith that science and technology will inevitably better the human condition .
And they have done this on a very large scale , with a veritable flood of novels and stories which are either dystopias or narratives of adventure with dystopian elements .
Because of the means of publication -- science-fiction magazines and cheap paperbacks -- and because dystopian science fiction is still appearing in quantity the full range and extent of this phenomenon can hardly be known , though one fact is evident : the science-fiction imagination has been immensely fertile in its extrapolations .
Among the dystopias , for example , Isaac Asimov's The Caves Of Steel ( 1954 ) portrays the deadly effects on human life of the super-city of the future ; ;
James Blish's A Case Of Conscience ( 1958 ) describes a world hiding from its own weapons of destruction in underground shelters ; ;
Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451 ( 1954 ) presents a book-burning society in which wall television and hearing-aid radios enslave men's minds ; ;
Walter M. Miller , Jr.'s , A Canticle For Leibowitz ( 1959 ) finds men , after the great atomic disaster , stumbling back to their previous level of civilization and another catastrophe ; ;
Frederick Pohl's `` The Midas Touch '' ( 1954 ) predicts an economy of abundance which , in order to remain prosperous , must set its robots to consuming surplus production ; ;
Clifford D. Simak's `` How-2 '' ( 1954 ) tells of a future when robots have taken over , leaving men nothing to do ; ;
and Robert Sheckley's The Status Civilization ( 1960 ) describes a world which , frightened by the powers of destruction science has given it , becomes static and conformist .
A more complete list would also include Bradbury's `` The Pedestrian '' ( 1951 ) , Philip K. Dick's Solar Lottery ( 1955 ) , David Karp's One ( 1953 ) , Wilson Tucker's The Long Loud Silence ( 1952 ) , Jack Vance's To Live Forever ( 1956 ) , Gore Vidal's Messiah ( 1954 ) , and Bernard Wolfe's Limbo ( 1952 ) , as well as the three perhaps most outstanding dystopias , Frederik Pohl and C. M. Kornbluth's The Space Merchants ( 1953 ) , Kurt Vonnegut's Player Piano ( 1952 ) , and John Wyndham's Re-Birth ( 1953 ) , works which we will later examine in detail .
The novels and stories like Pohl's Drunkard's Walk ( 1960 ) , with the focus on adventure and with the dystopian elements only a dim background -- in this case an uneasy , overpopulated world in which the mass of people do uninteresting routine jobs while a carefully selected , university-trained elite runs everything -- are in all likelihood as numerous as dystopias .
There is , of course , nothing new about dystopias , for they belong to a literary tradition which , including also the closely related satiric utopias , stretches from at least as far back as the eighteenth century and Swift's Gulliver's Travels to the twentieth century and Zamiatin's We , Capek's War With The Newts , Huxley's Brave New World , E. M. Forster's `` The Machine Stops '' , C. S. Lewis's That Hideous Strength , and Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four , and which in science fiction is represented before the present deluge as early as Wells's trilogy , The Time Machine , `` A Story Of The Days To Come '' , and When The Sleeper Wakes , and as recently as Jack Williamson's `` With Folded Hands '' ( 1947 ) , the classic story of men replaced by their own robots .
What makes the current phenomenon unique is that so many science-fiction writers have reversed a trend and turned to writing works critical of the impact of science and technology on human life .
Since the great flood of these dystopias has appeared only in the last twelve years , it seems fairly reasonable to assume that the chief impetus was the 1949 publication of Nineteen Eighty-Four , an assumption which is supported by the frequent echoes of such details as Room 101 , along with education by conditioning from Brave New World , a book to which science-fiction writers may well have returned with new interest after reading the more powerful Orwell dystopia .
Not all recent science fiction , however , is dystopian , for the optimistic strain is still very much alive in Mission Of Gravity and Childhood's End , as we have seen , as well as in many other recent popular novels and stories like Fred Hoyle's The Black Cloud ( 1957 ) ; ;
and among works of dystopian science fiction , not all provide intelligent criticism and very few have much merit as literature -- but then real quality has always been scarce in science fiction .
In addition , there are many areas of the human situation besides the impact of science and technology which are examined , for science-fiction dystopias often extrapolate political , social , economic tendencies only indirectly related to science and technology .
Nevertheless , with all these qualifications and exceptions , the current dystopian phenomenon remains impressive for its criticism that science and technology , instead of bringing utopia , may well enslave , dehumanize , and even destroy men .
How effectively these warnings can be presented is seen in Pohl and Kornbluth's The Space Merchants , Vonnegut's Player Piano and Wyndham's Re-Birth .
Easily the best known of these three novels is The Space Merchants , a good example of a science-fiction dystopia which extrapolates much more than the impact of science on human life , though its most important warning is in this area , namely as to the use to which discoveries in the behavioral sciences may be put .
The novel , which is not merely dystopian but also brilliantly satiric , describes a future America where one-sixteenth of the population , the men who run advertising agencies and big corporations , control the rest of the people , the submerged fifteen-sixteenths who are the workers and consumers , with the government being no more than `` a clearing house for pressures '' .
Like ours , the economy of the space merchants must constantly expand in order to survive , and , like ours , it is based on the principle of `` ever increasing everybody's work and profits in the circle of consumption '' .
The consequences , of course , have been dreadful : reckless expansion has led to overpopulation , pollution of the earth and depletion of its natural resources .
For example , even the most successful executive lives in a two-room apartment while ordinary people rent space in the stairwells of office buildings in which to sleep at night ; ;
soyaburgers have replaced meat , and wood has become so precious that it is saved for expensive jewelry ; ;
and the atmosphere is so befouled that no one dares walk in the open without respirators or soot plugs .
While The Space Merchants indicates , as Kingsley Amis has correctly observed , some of the `` impending consequences of the growth of industrial and commercial power '' and satirizes `` existing habits in the advertising profession '' , its warning and analysis penetrate much deeper .
What is wrong with advertising is not only that it is an `` outrage , an assault on people's mental privacy '' or that it is a major cause for a wasteful economy of abundance or that it contains a coercive tendency ( which is closer to the point ) .
Rather what Kornbluth and Pohl are really doing is warning against the dangers inherent in perfecting `` a science of man and his motives '' .
The Space Merchants , like such humanist documents as Joseph Wood Krutch's The Measure Of Man and C. S. Lewis's The Abolition Of Man , considers what may result from the scientific study of human nature .
If man is actually the product of his environment and if science can discover the laws of human nature and the ways in which environment determines what people do , then someone -- a someone probably standing outside traditional systems of values -- can turn around and develop completely efficient means for controlling people .
Thus we will have a society consisting of the planners or conditioners , and the controlled .
And this , of course , is exactly what Madison Avenue has been accused of doing albeit in a primitive way , with its `` hidden persuaders '' and what the space merchants accomplish with much greater sophistication and precision .
Pohl and Kornbluth's ad men have long since thrown out appeals to reason and developed techniques of advertising which tie in with `` every basic trauma and neurosis in American life '' , which work on the libido of consumers , which are linked to the `` great prime motivations of the human spirit '' .
As the hero , Mitchell Courtenay , explains before his conversion , the job of advertising is `` to convince people without letting them know that they're being convinced '' .
And to do this requires first of all the kind of information about people which is provided by the scientists in industrial anthropology and consumer research , who , for example , tell Courtenay that three days is the `` optimum priming period for a closed social circuit to be triggered with a catalytic cue-phrase '' -- which means that an effective propaganda technique is to send an idea into circulation and then three days later reinforce or undermine it .
And the second requirement for convincing people without their knowledge is artistic talent to prepare the words and pictures which persuade by using the principles which the scientists have discovered .
Thus the copywriter in the world of the space merchants is the person who in earlier ages might have been a lyric poet , the person `` capable of putting together words that stir and move and sing '' .
As Courtenay explains , `` Here in this profession we reach into the souls of men and women .
And we do it by taking talent -- and redirecting it '' .
Now the basic question to be asked in this situation is what motivates the manipulators , that is , what are their values ? ?
-- since , as Courtenay says , `` Nobody should play with lives the way we do unless he's motivated by the highest ideals '' .
But the only ideal he can think of is `` Sales '' ! !
Indeed , again and again , the space merchants confirm the prediction of the humanists that the conditioners and behavioral scientists , once they have seen through human nature , will have nothing except their impulses and desires to guide them .
We often say of a person that he `` looks young for his age '' or `` old for his age '' .
Yet even in the more extreme of such cases we seldom go very far astray in guessing what his age actually is .
And this means , I suppose , that almost invariably age reveals itself by easily recognizable signs engraved on both the body and the mind .
`` Young for his age '' means only the presence of some minor characteristic not quite usual .
Stigmata quite sufficient for diagnosis are nevertheless there .
An assumption of youth , or the presence of a few youthful characteristics , deceives no more successfully than rouge or dyed hair .
`` Looking young for your age '' means `` for your age '' and it means no more .
A mind expressing itself in words may reveal itself a little less obviously as old or young .
Its surface loses its bloom and submits to its wrinkles in ways less immediately obvious than the body does .
Youth may be , and often is , skeptical , cynical or despairing ; ;
age may be idealistic , believing and much given to professions of optimism .
But there is , nevertheless , always a subtle difference in the way in which supposedly similar opinions are held .
The pessimism of the young is defiant , anxious to confess or even exaggerate its ostensible gloom , and so exuberant as to reveal the fact that it regards its ability to face up to the awful truth as more than enough to compensate for the awfulness of that truth .
Similarly the optimism of age protests too much .
If it proclaims that the best is yet to be , it always arouses , at least in the young , either a suspicious question or perhaps the exclamation of the Negro youth who saw on a tombstone the inscription , `` I am not dead but sleeping '' .
`` Boy , you ain't fooling nobody but yourself '' .
We may say of some unfortunates that they were never young .
We cannot truthfully say of anyone who has succeeded in entering deep into his sixties that he was never old .
Those famous lines of the Greek Anthology with which a fading beauty dedicates her mirror at the shrine of a goddess reveal a wise attitude : `` Venus , take my votive glass , Since I am not what I was , What from this day I shall be , Venus , let me never see '' .
No good can come of contemplating the sad , inevitable fact that once youth has passed `` a worse and worse time still succeeds the former '' .
But there are at least two reasons for contemplating one's mind in even a cracked mirror .
One is that there sometimes are real although inadequate compensations in growing old .
Serenity , if one is fortunate enough to achieve it , is not so good as joy , but it is something .
Even to be `` from hope and fear set free '' is at least better than to have lost the first without having got rid of the second .
The other reason ( and the one with which I am here concerned ) is that one thus becomes inclined to inquire of any opinion , or change of opinion , whether it represents the wisdom of experience or is only the result of the difference between youth and age which is as inevitable as the all too obvious physical differences .
One may be exasperatingly aware that if the answer is favorable it will be judged such only by those of one's own age .
But at least the question has been raised .
Many readers of this department no doubt discount certain of my opinions for the simple reason that they can guess pretty accurately , even if they have never actually been told , what my age is .
At least I should like them to know that I know these discounts are being made .
Let me then ( and in public ) glance into the mirror .
I have known some men and women who said that the selves they are told about or even remember seem utter strangers to them now ; ;
that their remote past is as discontinuous with their present selves , as lacking in any conscious likeness to their mature personality , as the self of a butterfly may be imagined discontinuous with that of the caterpillar it once was .
For my part I find it difficult to conceive such a state of affairs .
I have changed and I have reversed opinions ; ;
but I am so aware of an uninterrupted continuity of the persona or ego that I see only as absurd the tendency of some psychologists from Heraclitus to Pirandello and Proust to regard consciousness as no more than a flux amid which nothing remains unchanged .
So far as I am concerned , the child is unmistakably father to the man , despite the obvious fact that child and father differ greatly -- sometimes for the better and sometimes for the worse .
Fundamental values , temperament and the way in which one approaches a conviction change less , of course , than specific opinions .
That fact is very clearly illustrated in the case of the many present-day intellectuals who were Communists or near-Communists in their youth and are now so extremely conservative ( or reactionary , as many would say ) that they can define no important political conviction that does not seem so far from even a centrist position as to make the distinction between Mr. Nixon and Mr. Khrushchev for them hardly worth noting .
But in ways more fundamental than specific political opinions they are still what they always were : passionate , sure without a shadow of doubt of whatever it is that they are sure of , capable of seeing black and white only and , therefore , committed to the logical extreme of whatever it is they are temporarily committed to .
To those of my readers who find many of my opinions morally , or politically , or sociologically antiquated ( and I have reason to know that there are some such ) , I would like to say what I have already hinted , namely , that some of my opinions may indeed be subject to some discount on the simple ground that I am no longer young and therefore incapable of being youthful of mind .
But I will also remind them that I have always been inclined to skepticism , to a kind of Laodicean lack of commitment so far as public affairs are concerned ; ;
so that , although not as eager as I once was to be disapproved of , I can still resist prevailing opinions .
At about the age of twelve I became a Spencerian liberal , and I have always considered myself a liberal of some kind even though the definition has changed repeatedly since Spencer became a reactionary .
Several times in my youth I voted the Socialist ticket , but less because I was Socialist than because I was not either a Republican or a Democrat , and I voted for Franklin Roosevelt every time he was a candidate .
Yet during the years when I was on the staff of The Nation , I tried to the limit the patience of the editors on almost every occasion when I was permitted to write an editorial having a bearing on a political or social question .
Never once during the trying thirties did I come so close to succumbing to the private climate of opinion as to grant Russian communism even that most weasel-worded of encomiums `` an interesting experiment '' .
There are few things of which I am prouder than of that unblemished record .
Many of my friends at the time thought that I had received a well-deserved condemnation when Lincoln Steffens denounced me in a review of one of my books as a perfect example of the obsolete man who could understand and sympathize only with the dead past .
But he , as I can now retort , was the man who could see so short a distance ahead that after a visit to Russia he gave voice to the famous exclamation : `` I have seen the future and it works '' .
The favorite excuse of those who have now recanted their approval of communism is that they did not know how things would develop .
With this excuse I have never been much impressed .
There was , it seems to me , enough in the openly declared principles and intentions of Russian leaders to alienate honorable men without their having to wait to see how it would turn out .
Once many years ago I sat at dinner next to Arthur Train , and the subject of The Nation came up .
He asked me suddenly , `` What are your political opinions '' ? ?
`` Well '' , I replied , `` some of my colleagues on the paper regard me as a rank reactionary '' .
After a moment's thought he replied , `` That still leaves you a lot of latitude '' .
And I suppose it did .
I never have been , and am not now , any kind of utopian .
When I first came across Samuel Johnson's pronouncement , `` the remedy for the ills of life is palliative rather than radical '' , it seemed to me to sum up the profoundest of political and social truths .
It will probably explain more of my attitudes toward society than any other phrase or principle could .
Why did I choose to fill these pages in this particular issue with this mixture of rather tenuous reflections and autobiography ? ?
The reason is , I think , my awareness that my remarks last quarter on pacifism may well have served to confirm the opinion of some that my tendency to skepticism and dissent gets us nowhere , and that I am simply too old to hope .
I would , however , like to suggest that , wrong though I may be , the tendency to see dilemmas rather than solutions is one of which I have been a victim ever since I can remember , and therefore not merely a senile phenomenon .
I know that one must act .
But one need not always be sure that the action is either wise or conclusive .
Apropos of what some would call cynicism , I remember an anecdote the source of which I forget .
It concerns a small-town minister who staged an impressive object lesson by confining a lion and a lamb together in the same cage outside his church door .
Not only his parishioners , but the whole town and , ultimately , the whole county were enormously impressed by this object lesson .
One day he was visited by a delegation of would-be imitators who wanted to know his secret .
`` How on earth do you manage it ? ?
What is the trick '' ? ?
`` Why '' , he replied , `` it is perfectly simple ; ;
there is no trick involved .
All you have to do is put in a fresh lamb from time to time '' .
Cynical ? ?
Blasphemous ? ?
Not really , it seems to me .
The promise that the lion and the lamb will lie down together was given in the future tense .
It is not something that can be expected to happen now .
Without really changing the general subject , I take this opportunity to confess that I am troubled by doubts , not only about pacifism , but also when asked to join in the protest against a law that most of those who consider themselves humane and liberal seem to regard as obviously barbarous ; ;
namely , the law that prescribes the death penalty for murder when there seem to be no extenuating circumstances .
It is not that I am unaware of the force of their strongest contention .
Life , they say , should be regarded as sacred and , therefore , as something that neither an individual nor his society has a right to take away .
In fact I cannot imagine myself condemning a man to the noose or the electric chair if I had to take , as an individual , the responsibility for his death .
Just as I know I would make a bad soldier even though I cannot sincerely call myself a pacifist , so too I would not be either a hangman by profession or , if I could avoid it , even a member of a hanging jury .
Despite these facts the question `` : :
Should no murderer ever be executed '' ? ?
Seems to me to create a dilemma not to be satisfactorily disposed of by a simple negative answer .
Punishment of the wrongdoer , so liberals are inclined to say , can have only three possible justifications : revenge , reformation or deterrent example .
For here if anywhere in contemporary literature is a major effort to counterbalance Existentialism and restore some of its former lustre to the tarnished image of the species Man , or , as Malraux himself puts it , `` to make men conscious of the grandeur they ignore in themselves '' .
1 ,
Andre Malraux's The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg was written in the early years of the second World War , during a period of enforced leisure when he was taken prisoner by the Germans after the fall of France .
The manuscript , presumably after being smuggled out of the country , was published in Switzerland in 1943 .
The work as it stands is not the entire book that Malraux wrote at that time -- it is only the first section of a three-part novel called La Lutte avec l'Ange ; ;
and this first section was somehow preserved ( there are always these annoying little mysteries about the actual facts of Malraux's life ) when the Gestapo destroyed the rest .
If we are to believe the list of titles printed in Malraux's latest book , La Metamorphose Des Dieux , Vol. 1 ( ( 1957 ) , he is still engaged in writing a large novel under his original title .
But as he remarks in his preface to The Walnut Trees , `` a novel can hardly ever be rewritten '' , and `` when this one appears in its final form , the form of the first part will no doubt be radically changed '' .
Malraux pretends , perhaps with a trifle too self-conscious a modesty , that his fragmentary work will accordingly `` appeal only to the curiosity of bibliophiles '' and `` to connoisseurs of what might have been '' .
Even in its present form , however , the first part of Malraux's unrecoverable novel is among the greatest works of mid-twentieth century literature ; ;
and it should be far better known than it is .
The theme of The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg is most closely related to its immediate predecessor in Malraux's array of novels : Man's Hope ( 1937 ) .
This magnificent but greatly underestimated book , which bodies forth the very form and pressure of its time as no other comparable creation , has suffered severely from having been written about an historical event -- the Spanish Civil War -- that is still capable of fanning the smoldering fires of old political feuds .
Even so apparently impartial a critic as W. H. Frohock has taken for granted that the book was originally intended as a piece of Loyalist propaganda ; ;
and has then gone on to argue , with unimpeachable consistency , that all the obviously non-propagandistic aspects of the book are simply inadvertent `` contradictions '' .
Nothing , however , could be farther from the truth .
The whole purpose of Man's Hope is to portray the tragic dialectic between means and ends inherent in all organized political violence -- and even when such violence is a necessary and legitimate self-defense of liberty , justice and human dignity .
Nowhere before in Malraux's pages have we met such impassioned defenders of a `` quality of man '' which transcends the realm of politics and even the realm of action altogether -- both the action of Malraux's early anarchist-adventurers like Perken and Garine , and the self-sacrificing action of dedicated Communists like Kyo Gisors and Katow in Man's Fate .
`` Man engages only a small part of himself in an action '' says old Alvear the art-historian ; ;
`` and the more the action claims to be total , the smaller is the part of man engaged '' .
These lines never cease to haunt the book amidst all the exaltations of combat , and to make an appeal for a larger and more elemental human community than one based on the brutal necessities of war .
It is this larger theme of the `` quality of man '' , a quality that transcends the ideological and flows into `` the human '' , which now forms the pulsating heart of Malraux's artistic universe .
Malraux , to be sure , does not abandon the world of violence , combat and sudden death which has become his hallmark as a creative artist , and which is the only world , apparently , in which his imagination can flame into life .
The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg includes not one war but two , and throws in a Turkish revolution along with some guerrilla fighting in the desert for good measure .
But while war still serves as a catalyst for the values that Malraux wishes to express , these values are no longer linked with the triumph or defeat of any cause -- whether that of an individual assertion of the will-to-power , or a collective attempt to escape from the humiliation of oppression -- as their necessary condition .
On the contrary , the frenzy and furor of combat is only the sombre foil against which the sudden illuminations of the human flash forth with the piercing radiance of a Caravaggio .
2 ,
The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg is composed in the form of a triptych , with the two small side panels framing and enclosing the main central episode of the novel .
This central episode consists of a series of staccato scenes set in the period from the beginning of the present century up to the first World War .
The framing scenes , on the other hand , both take place in the late Spring of 1940 , just at the moment of the defeat of France in the second great world conflict .
The narrator is an Alsatian serving with the French Army , and he has the same name ( Berger ) that Malraux himself was later to use in the Resistance ; ;
like Malraux he was also serving in the tank corps before being captured , and we learn as well that in civilian life he had been a writer .
These biographical analogies are obvious , and far too much time has been spent speculating on their possible implications .
Much more important is to grasp the feelings of the narrator ( whose full name is never given ) as he becomes aware of the disorganized and bewildered mass of French prisoners clustered together in a temporary prison camp in and around the cathedral of Chartres .
For as his companions gradually dissolve back into a state of primitive confrontation with elemental necessity , as they lose all the appanage of their acquired culture , he is overcome by the feeling that he is at last being confronted with the essence of mankind .
`` As a writer , by what have I been obsessed these last ten years , if not by mankind ? ?
Here I am face to face with the primeval stuff '' .
The intuition about mankind conveyed in these opening pages is of crucial importance for understanding the remainder of the text ; ;
and we must attend to it more closely than has usually been done .
What does the narrator see and what does he feel ? ?
A good many pages of the first section are taken up with an account of the dogged determination of the prisoners to write to their wives and families -- even when it becomes clear that the Germans are simply allowing the letters to blow away in the wind .
Awkwardly and laboriously , in stiff , unemotional phrases , the soldiers continue to bridge the distance between themselves and those they love ; ;
they instinctively struggle to keep open a road to the future in their hearts .
And by a skillful and unobtrusive use of imagery ( the enclosure is called a `` Roman-camp stockade '' , the hastily erected lean-to is a `` Babylonian hovel '' , the men begin to look like `` Peruvian mummies '' and to acquire `` Gothic faces '' ) , Malraux projects a fresco of human endurance -- which is also the endurance of the human -- stretching backward into the dark abyss of time .
The narrator feels himself catching a glimpse of pre-history , learning of man's `` age-old familiarity with misfortune '' , as well as his `` equally age-old ingenuity , his secret faith in endurance , however crammed with catastrophes , the same faith perhaps as the cave-men used to have in the face of famine '' .
This new vision of man that the narrator acquires is also accompanied by a re-vision of his previous view .
`` I thought I knew more than my education had taught me , '' notes the narrator , `` because I had encountered the militant mobs of a political or religious faith '' .
Is this not Malraux himself alluding to his own earlier infatuation with the ideological ? ?
But now he knows `` that an intellectual is not only a man to whom books are necessary , he is any man whose reasoning , however elementary it may be , affects and directs his life '' .
From this point of view the `` militant mobs '' of the past , stirred into action by one ideology or another , were all composed of `` intellectuals '' -- and this is not the level on which the essence of mankind can be discovered .
The men around him , observes the narrator , `` have been living from day to day for thousands of years '' .
The human is deeper than a mass ideology , certainly deeper than the isolated individual ; ;
and the narrator recalls the words of his father , Vincent Berger : `` It is not by any amount of scratching at the individual that one finally comes down to mankind '' .
The entire middle section of The Walnut Trees is taken up with the life of Vincent Berger himself , whose fragmentary notes on his `` encounters with mankind '' are now conveyed by his son .
`` He was not much older than myself , '' writes the narrator , `` when he began to feel the impact of that human mystery which now obsesses me , and which makes me begin , perhaps , to understand him '' .
For the figure of Vincent Berger Malraux has obviously drawn on his studies of T. E. Lawrence ( though Berger fights on the side of the Turks instead of against them ) , and like both Lawrence and Malraux himself he is a fervent admirer of Nietzsche .
A professor at the University of Constantinople , where his first course of lectures was on Nietzsche and the `` philosophy of action '' , Vincent Berger becomes head of the propaganda department of the German Embassy in Turkey .
As an Alsatian before the first World War he was of course of German nationality ; ;
but he quickly involves himself in the Young Turk revolutionary movement to such an extent that his own country begins to doubt his patriotism .
And , after becoming the right-hand man of Enver Pasha , he is sent by the latter to pave the way for a new Turkish Empire embracing `` the union of all Turks throughout Central Asia from Adrianople to the Chinese oases on the Silk Trade Route '' .
Vincent Berger's mission is a failure because the Ottoman nationalism on which Enver Pasha counted does not exist .
Central Asia is sunk in a somnolence from which nothing can awaken it ; ;
and amid a dusty desolation in which nothing human any longer seemed to survive , Vincent Berger begins to dream of the Occident .
`` Oh , for the green of Europe ! !
Trains whistling in the night , the rattle and clatter of cabs .
'' Finally , after almost being beaten to death by a madman -- he could not fight back because madmen are sacred to Islam -- he throws up his mission and returns to Europe .
This has been his first encounter with mankind , and , although he has now become a legendary figure in the popular European press , it leaves him profoundly dissatisfied .
Despite Berger's report , Enver Pasha refuses to surrender his dream of a Turkish Blood Alliance ; ;
and Vincent Berger learns that political ambition is more apt to hide than to reveal the truth about men .
But as he discovers shortly , on returning among intellectuals obsessed by le culte du moi , his experience of action had also taught him a more positive lesson .
`` For six years my father had had to do too much commanding and convincing , '' writes the narrator , `` not to understand that man begins with ' the other ' '' .
And when Vincent Berger returns to Europe , this first result of his encounters with mankind is considerably enriched and deepened by a crucial revelation .
For a dawning sense of illumination occurs in consequence of two events which , as so often in Malraux , suddenly confront a character with the existential question of the nature and value of human life .
One such event is the landing in Europe itself , when the mingled familiarity and strangeness of the Occident , after the blank immensities of Asia , shocks the returning traveller into a realization of the infinite possibilities of human life .
In a pessimistic assessment of the cold war , Eden declared : `` There must be much closer unity within the West before there can be effective negotiation with the East '' .
Ordinary methods of diplomacy within the free world are inadequate , said the former Prime Minister .
`` Something much more thorough is required '' .
Citing the experience of the Combined Chiefs of Staff in World War 2 , , Eden said that all would have been confusion and disarray without them .
`` This '' , he said , `` is exactly what has been happening between the politically free nations in the postwar world .
We need joint chiefs of a political general staff '' .
Citing the advances of Communist power in recent years , Sir Anthony observed : `` This very grave state of affairs will continue until the free nations accept together the reality of the danger that confronts them and unite their policies and resources to meet it '' .
While I fully agree with Sir Anthony's contention , I think that we must carry the analysis farther , bearing in mind that while common peril may be the measure of our need , the existence or absence of a positive sense of community must be the measure of our capacity .
While it is hazardous to project the trend of history , it seems clear that a genuine community is painfully emerging in the Western world , particularly among the countries of Western Europe .
At the end of World War 2 , , free Europe was ready for a new beginning .
The excesses of nationalism had brought down upon Europe a generation of tyranny and war , and a return to the old order of things seemed unthinkable .
Under these conditions a new generation of Europeans began to discover the bonds of long association and shared values that for so long had been subordinated to nationalist xenophobia .
A slow and painful trend toward unification has taken hold , a trend which may at any time be arrested and reversed but which may also lead to a binding federation of Europe .
It may well be that the unification of Europe will prove inadequate , that the survival of free society will require nothing less than the confederation of the entire Western world .
The movement toward European unity has been expressed in two currents : federalism and functionalism , one looking to the constitution of a United States of Europe , the other building on wartime precedents of practical cooperation for the solution of specific problems .
Thus far the advances made have been almost entirely along functional lines .
Many factors contributed to the growth of the European movement .
In 1946 Sir Winston Churchill , who had spoken often of European union during the war , advocated the formation of `` a kind of United States of Europe '' .
Had Churchill been returned to office in 1945 , it is just possible that Britain , instead of standing fearfully aloof , would have led Europe toward union .
In 1947 and 1948 the necessity of massive coordinated efforts to achieve economic recovery led to the formation of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation to supervise and coordinate the uses of American aid under the Marshall Plan .
The United States might well have exploited the opportunity provided by the European Recovery Program to push the hesitant European nations toward political federation as well as economic cooperation , but all proposals to this effect were rejected by the United States Government at the time .
Another powerful factor in the European movement was the threat of Soviet aggression .
The Communist coup in Czechoslovakia in 1948 was followed immediately by the conclusion of the Brussels Treaty , a 50-year alliance among Britain , France and the Benelux countries .
And of course the Soviet threat was responsible for NATO , the grand alliance of the Atlantic nations .
New organs of unification proliferated in the decade following the conclusion of the NATO alliance .
In 1949 the Council of Europe came into existence , a purely consultative parliamentary body but the first organ of political rather than functional unity .
In 1952 , the European Coal and Steel Community was launched , placing the coal and steel production of France , West Germany , Italy and Benelux under a supranational High Authority .
For a time it appeared that a common European army might be created , but the project for a European Defense Community was rejected by the French National Assembly in 1954 .
In 1957 the social-economic approach to European integration was capped by the formation among `` the Six '' of a tariff-free European Common Market , and Euratom for cooperation in the development of atomic energy .
The `` overseas '' democracies have generally encouraged the European unification movement without seriously considering the wisdom of their own full participation in a broader Atlantic community .
The United States and Canada belong only to NATO and the new O.E.C.D. .
Britain until recently went along in some areas with all of the enthusiasm of the groom at a shotgun wedding .
In other areas it held back , pleading its Commonwealth bonds .
Now Britain has decided to seek admission to the European Economic Community and it seems certain that she will be joined by some of her partners in the loose Free Trade Area of the `` Outer Seven '' .
Besides its historical significance as a break with the centuries-old tradition of British insularity , Britain's move , if successful , will constitute an historic landmark of the first importance in the movement toward the unification of Europe and the Western world .
If a broader Atlantic community is to be formed -- and my own judgment is that it lies within the realm of both our needs and our capacity -- a ready nucleus of machinery is at hand in the NATO alliance .
The time is now ripe , indeed overdue , for the vigorous development of its non-military potentialities , for its development as an instrument of Atlantic community .
What is required is the full implementation of Article 2 of the Treaty , which provides : `` The Parties will contribute toward the further development of peaceful and friendly international relations by strengthening their free institutions , by bringing about a better understanding of the principles upon which these institutions are founded , and by promoting conditions of stability and well-being .
They will seek to eliminate conflict in their international economic policies and will encourage economic collaboration between any and all of them '' .
As Lester Pearson wrote in 1955 : :
`` NATO cannot live on fear alone .
It cannot become the source of a real Atlantic community if it remains organized to deal only with the military threat which first brought it into being '' .
The problem of NATO is not one of machinery , of which there is an abundance , but of the will to use it .
The NATO Council is available as an executive agency , the Standing Group as a high military authority .
The unofficial Conference of Parliamentarians is available as a potential legislative authority .
This machinery will not become the instrument of an Atlantic community by fiat , but only when that community evolves from potentiality to reality .
The existence of a community is a state of mind -- a conviction that goals and values are widely shared , that effective communication is possible , that mutual trust is reasonably assured .
An equally promising avenue toward Atlantic community may lie through the development and expansion of the O.E.C.D. .
Conceived as an organ of economic cooperation , there is no reason why O.E.C.D. cannot evolve into a broader instrument of union if its members so desire .
Indeed it might be a more appropriate vehicle than NATO for the development of a parliamentary organ of the Atlantic nations , because it could encompass all of the members of the Atlantic community including those , like Sweden and Switzerland , who are unwilling to be associated with an essentially military alliance like Aj .
Underlying these hopes and prescriptions is a conviction that the nations of the North Atlantic area do indeed form a community , at least a potential community .
There is nothing new in this ; ;
what is new and compelling is that the West is now but one of several powerful civilizations , or `` systems '' , and that one or more of the others may pose a mortal danger to the West .
For centuries the North Atlantic nations dominated the world and as long as they did they could afford the luxury of fighting each other .
That time is now past and the Atlantic nations , if they are to survive , must develop a full-fledged community , and they must also look beyond the frontiers of `` Western civilization '' toward a world-wide `` concert of free nations '' .
6 ,
The burden of these reflections is that a broader unity among the free nations is at the core of our needs .
And if we do not aspire to too much , it is also within our capacity .
A realistic balancing of the need for new forms of international organization on the one hand , and our capacity to achieve them on the other , must be approached through the concept of `` community '' .
History has demonstrated many times that concerts of nations based solely on the negative spur of common danger are unlikely to survive when the external danger ceases to be dramatically urgent .
Only when a concert of nations rests on the positive foundations of shared goals and values is it likely to form a viable instrument of long-range policy .
It follows that the solution to the current disunity of the free nations is only to a very limited extent a matter of devising new machinery of consultation and coordination .
It is very much a matter of building the foundations of community .
It is for these reasons that proposals for a `` new world order '' , through radical overhaul of the United Nations or through some sort of world federation , are utterly fatuous .
In a recent book called `` World Peace Through World Law '' , two distinguished lawyers , Grenville Clark and Louis Sohn , call for just such an overhaul of the U.N. , basing their case on the world-wide fear of a nuclear holocaust .
I believe that these proposals , however meritorious in terms of world needs , go far beyond our capacity to realize them .
Such proposals look to an apocalyptic act , a kind of Lockian `` social contract '' on a world-wide scale .
The defect of these proposals is in their attempt to outrun history and their assumption that because something may be desirable it is also possible .
A working concept of the organic evolution of community must lead us in a different direction .
The failures of the U.N. and of other international organs suggest that we have already gone beyond what was internationally feasible .
Our problem , therefore , is to devise processes more modest in their aspirations , adjusted to the real world of sovereign nation states and diverse and hostile communities .
The history of the U.N. demonstrates that in a pluralistic world we must develop processes of influence and persuasion rather than coercion .
It is possible that international organization will ultimately supplant the multi-state system , but its proper function for the immediate future is to reform and supplement that system in order to render pluralism more compatible with an interdependent world .
New machinery of coordination should not be our primary objective in the foreseeable future -- though perhaps the `` political general staff '' of Western leaders proposed by Sir Anthony Eden would serve a useful purpose .
Generally , however , there is an abundance of available machinery of coordination -- in NATO , in O.E.C.D. , in the U.N. and elsewhere .
The trouble with this machinery is that it is not used and the reason that it is not used is the absence of a conscious sense of community among the free nations .
Our proper objective , then , is the development of a new spirit , the realization of a potential community .
A `` concert of free nations '' should take its inspiration from the traditions of the nineteenth century Concert of Europe with its common values and accepted `` rules of the game '' .
Constitutions of and by themselves mean little ; ;
the history of both the League of Nations and the United Nations demonstrates that .
But a powerful sense of community , even with little or no machinery , means a great deal .
That is the lesson of the nineteenth century .
A realistic `` concert of free nations '' might be expected to consist of an `` inner community '' of the North Atlantic nations and an `` outer community '' embracing much or all of the non-Communist world .
The recent experiments in the new poetry-and-jazz movement seen by some as part of the `` San Francisco Renaissance '' have been as popular as they are notorious .
`` It might well start a craze like swallowing goldfish or pee-wee golf '' , wrote Kenneth Rexroth in an explanatory note in the Evergreen Review , and he may have been right .
Under the general heading `` poetry-and-jazz '' widely divergent experiments have been carried out .
Lawrence Ferlenghetti and Bruce Lippincott have concentrated on writing a new poetry for reading with jazz that is very closely related to both the musical forms of jazz , and the vocabulary of the musician .
Even musicians themselves have taken to writing poetry .
( Judy Tristano now has poems as well as ballads written for her .
)
But the best known exploiters of the new medium are Kenneth Rexroth and Kenneth Patchen .
Rexroth and Patchen are far apart musically and poetically in their experiments .
Rexroth is a longtime jazz buff , a name-dropper of jazz heroes , and a student of traditional as well as modern jazz .
In San Francisco he has worked with Brew Moore , Charlie Mingus , and other `` swinging '' musicians of secure reputation , thus placing himself within established jazz traditions , in addition to being a part of the San Francisco `` School '' .
Although Patchen has given previous evidence of an interest in jazz , the musical group that he works with , the Chamber Jazz Sextet , is often ignored by jazz critics .
( Downbeat did not mention the Los Angeles appearance of Patchen and the Sextet , although the engagement lasted over two months .
) The stated goal of the CJS is the synthesis of jazz and `` serious '' music .
Patchen's musicians are outsiders in established jazz circles , and Patchen himself has remained outside the San Francisco poetry group , maintaining a self-imposed isolation , even though his conversion to poetry-and-jazz is not as extreme or as sudden as it may first appear .
He had read his poetry with musicians as early as 1951 , and his entire career has been characterized by radical experiments with the form and presentation of his poetry .
However , his subject matter and basic themes have remained surprisingly consistent , and these , together with certain key poetic images , may be traced through all his work , including the new jazz experiments .
From the beginning of his career , Patchen has adopted an anti-intellectual approach to poetry .
His first book , Before The Brave ( 1936 ) , is a collection of poems that are almost all Communistic , but after publication of this book he rejected Communism , and advocated a pacifistic anarchy , though retaining his revolutionary idiom .
He spoke for a `` proletariat '' that included `` all the lost and sick and hunted of the earth '' .
Patchen believes that the world is being destroyed by power-hungry and money-hungry people .
Running counter to the destroying forces in the world are all the virtues that are innate in man , the capacity for love and brotherhood , the ability to appreciate beauty .
Beauty as well as love is redemptive , and Patchen preaches a kind of moral salvation .
This salvation does not take the form of a Christian Heaven .
In Patchen's eyes , organized churches are as odious as organized governments , and Christian symbols , having been taken over by the moneyed classes , are now agents of corruption .
Patchen envisions a Dark Kingdom which `` stands above the waters as a sentinel warning man of danger from his own kind '' .
The Dark Kingdom sends Angels of Death and other fateful messengers down to us with stern tenderness .
Actually Heaven and the Dark Kingdom overlap ; ;
they form two aspects of heavenly life after death .
Patchen has almost never used strict poetic forms ; ;
he has experimented instead with personal myth-making .
Much of his earlier work was conceived in terms of a `` pseudo-anthropological '' myth reference , which is concerned with imaginary places and beings described in grandiloquent and travelogue-like language .
These early experiments were evidently not altogether satisfying to Patchen .
Beginning in Cloth Of The Tempest ( 1943 ) he experimented in merging poetry and visual art , using drawings to carry long narrative segments of a story , as in Sleepers Awake , and constructing elaborate `` poems-in-drawing-and-type '' in which it is impossible to distinguish between the `` art '' and the poetry .
Art `` makings '' or pseudo-anthropological myths did not meet all of Patchen's requirements for a poetic frame of reference .
Many of his poems purported to be exactly contemporary and political ; ;
so during the period approximately from 1941 to 1946 , Patchen often used private detective stories as a myth reference , and the `` private eye '' as a myth hero .
Speaking in terms of sociological stereotype , the `` private eye '' might appeal to the poet in search of a myth for many reasons .
The private detective ( at least in the minds of listeners and readers all over the country ) is an individual hero fighting injustice .
He is usually something of an underdog , he must battle the organized police force as well as recognized criminals .
The private detective must rely , as the Youngest Son or Trickster Hero does in primitive myth , on his wits .
The private detective is militant against injustice , a humorous and ironic explorer of the underworld ; ;
most important to Patchen , he was a non-literary hero , and very contemporary .
In 1945 , probably almost every American not only knew who Sam Spade was , but had some kind of emotional feeling about him .
In The Memoirs Of A Shy Pornographer ( 1945 ) Patchen exploited this national sentiment by making his hero , Albert Budd , a private detective .
But since 1945 , Sam Spade has undergone a metamorphosis ; ;
he has become Friday on Dragnet , a mouthpiece of arbitrary police authority .
He has , like so many other secular and religious culture symbols , gone over to the side of the ruling classes .
Obviously , the `` private eye '' can have no more appeal for Patchen .
To fill the job of contemporary hero in 1955 , Patchen needed someone else .
It was logical that he would come up with the figure of the modern jazz musician .
The revolution in jazz that took place around 1949 , the evolution from the `` bebop '' school of Dizzy Gillespie to the `` cool '' sound of Miles Davis and Lennie Tristano , Lee Konitz , and the whole legend of Charlie Parker , had made an impression on many academic and literary men .
The differentiation between the East Coast and West Coast schools of jazz , the differences between the `` hard bop '' school of Rollins , and the `` cerebral '' experiments of Tristano , Konitz and Marsh , the general differences in the mores of white and Negro musicians , all had become fairly well known to certain segments of the public .
The immense amount of interest that the new jazz had for the younger generation must have impressed him , and he began working toward the merger of jazz and poetry , as he had previously attempted the union of graphic art and poetry .
In addition to his experiments in reading poetry to jazz , Patchen is beginning to use the figure of the modern jazz musician as a myth hero in the same way he used the figure of the private detective a decade ago .
In this respect , his approach to poetry-and-jazz is in marked contrast to Kenneth Rexroth's .
Rexroth uses many of his early poems when he reads to jazz , including many of his Chinese and Japanese translations ; ;
he usually draws some kind of comparison with the jazz tradition and the poem he is reading -- for instance , he draws the parallel between a poem he reads about an Oriental courtesan waiting for the man she loves , and who never comes , and the old blues chants of Ma Rainy and other Negro singers -- but usually the comparison is specious .
Rexroth may sometimes achieve an effective juxtaposition , but he rarely makes any effort to capture any jazz `` feeling '' in the text of his poems , relying on his very competent musicians to supply this feeling .
Patchen does read some of his earlier works to music , but he has written an entire book of short poems which seem to be especially suited for reading with jazz .
These new poems have only a few direct references to jazz and jazz musicians , but they show changes in Patchen's approach to his poetry , for he has tried to enter into and understand the emotional attitude of the jazz musician .
It is difficult to draw the line between stereotype and the reality of the jazz musician .
Everyone knows that private detectives in real life are not like Sam Spade and Pat Novak , but the real and the imaginary musician are closely linked .
Seen by the public , the musician is the underdog par excellence .
He is forced to play for little money , and must often take another job to live .
His approach to music is highly individualistic ; ;
the accent is on improvisation rather than arrangements .
While he is worldly , the musician often cultivates public attitudes of childlike astonishment and naivete .
The musician is non-intellectual and non-verbal ; ;
he is far from being a literary hero , yet is a creative artist .
Many of these aspects will be seen as comparable to those of the ideal detective , but where the detective is active and militant , the jazz musician is passive , almost a victim of society .
In order to write with authority either about musicians , or as a musician , Patchen would have to soft pedal his characteristically outspoken anger , and change ( at least for the purposes of this poetry ) from a revolutionary to a victim .
He must become one who knows all about the injustice in the world , but who declines doing anything about it .
This involves a shift in Patchen's attitude and it is a first step toward writing a new jazz poetry .
He has shown considerable ingenuity in adapting his earliest symbols and devices to the new work , and the fact that he has kept a body of constant symbols through all of his experiments gives an unexpected continuity to his poetry .
Perhaps tracing some of these more important symbols through the body of his work will show that Patchen's new poetry is well thought out , and remains within the mainstream of his work , while being suited to a new form .
Henry Miller characterized Patchen as a `` man of anger and light '' .
His revolutionary anger is apparent in most of his early poems .
The following passage from `` The Hangman's Great Hands '' illustrates the directness of this anger .
`` Anger won't help .
I was born angry .
Angry that my father was being burnt alive in the mills ; ;
Angry that none of us knew anything but filth and poverty .
Angry because I was that very one somebody was supposed To be fighting for '' .
This angry and exasperated stance which Patchen has maintained in his poetry for almost fifteen years has been successfully modulated into a kind of woe that is as effective as anger and still expresses his disapproval of the modern world .
In his recent book , Hurray For Anything ( 1957 ) , one of the most important short poems -- and it is the title poem for one of the long jazz arrangements -- is written for recital with jazz .
Although it does not follow the metrical rules for a blues to be sung , the phrases themselves carry a blues feeling .
`` I went to the city And there I did Weep , Men a-crowing like asses , And living like sheep .
Oh , can't hold the han' of my love ! !
Can't hold her little white han' ! !
Yes , I went to the city , And there I did bitterly cry , Men out of touch with the earth , And with never a glance at the sky .
Oh , can't hold the han' of my love ! !
Can't hold her pure little han' ! !
'' Patchen is still the rebel , but he writes in a doleful , mournful tone .
Neither of these poems is an aberration ; ;
each is so typical that it represents a prominent trend in the poet's development .
Patchen is repeatedly preoccupied with death .
In many of his poems , death comes by train : a strongly evocative visual image .
Perhaps Patchen was once involved in a train accident , and this passage from First Will And Testament may have been how the accident appeared to the poet when he first saw it -- if he did : ``
Lord , love us , look at all the disconnected limbs floating hereabouts , like bloody feathers at that -- and all the eyes are talking and all the hair are moving and all the tongue are in all the cheek .
Let us see just how typical Krim is .
He is New York-born and Jewish .
He spent one year at the University of North Carolina because Thomas Wolfe went there .
He returned to New York to work for The New Yorker , to edit a Western pulp , to `` duck the war in the OWI '' , to write publicity for Paramount Pictures and commentary for a newsreel , then he began his career as critic for various magazines .
Now he has abandoned all that to be A Writer .
I do not want to quibble about typicality ; ;
in a certain sense , one manner of experience will be typical of any given group while another will not .
But I've got news for Krim : he's not typical , he's pretty special .
His may typify a certain kind of postwar New York experience , but his experience is certainly not typical of his `` generation's '' .
In any case , who ever thought that New York is typical of anything ? ?
Men of Krim's age , aspirations , and level of sophistication were typically involved in politics before the war .
They did not `` duck the war '' but they fought in it , however reluctantly ; ;
they sweated out some kind of formal education ; ;
they read widely and eclectically ; ;
they did not fall into pseudo-glamorous jobs on pseudo-glamorous magazines , but they did whatever nasty thing they could get in order to eat ; ;
they found out who they were and what they could do , then within the limits of their talent they did it .
They did not worry about `` experience '' , because experience thrust itself upon them .
And they traveled out of New York .
Only a native New Yorker could believe that New York is now or ever was a literary center .
It is a publishing and public relations center , but these very facts prevent it from being a literary center because writers dislike provincialism and untruth .
Krim's typicality consists only in his New Yorker's view that New York is the world ; ;
he displays what outlanders call the New York mind , a state that the subject is necessarily unable to perceive in himself .
The New York mind is two parts abstraction and one part misinformation about the rest of the country and in fact the world .
In his fulminating against the literary world , Krim is really struggling with the New Yorker in himself , but it's a losing battle .
Closely related to his illusions about his typicality is Krim's complicated feeling about his Jewishness .
He writes , `` Most of my friends and I were Jewish ; ;
we were also literary ; ;
the combination of the Jewish intellectual tradition and the sensibility needed to be a writer created in my circle the most potent and incredible intellectual-literary ambition I have ever seen or could ever have imagined .
Within themselves , just as people , my friends were often tortured and unappeasably bitter about being the offspring of this unhappily unique-ingrown-screwedup breed ; ;
their reading and thinking gave an extension to their normal blushes about appearing ' Jewish ' in subway , bus , racetrack , movie house , any of the public places that used to make the Jew of my generation self-conscious ( heavy thinkers walking across Seventh Avenue without their glasses on , willing to dare the trucks as long as they didn't look like the ikey-kikey caricature of the Yiddish intellectual ) .
'' At other points in his narrative , Krim associates Jewishness with unappeasable literary ambition , with abstraction , with his personal turning aside from the good , the true , and the beautiful of fiction in the manner of James T. Farrell to the international , the false , and the inflated .
Krim says , in short , that he is a suffering Jew .
The only possible answer to that is , I am a suffering Franco-Irishman .
We all love to suffer , but some of us love to suffer more than others .
Had Krim gone farther from New York than Chapel Hill , he might have discovered that large numbers of American Jews do not find his New York version of the Jews' lot remotely recognizable .
More important is the simple human point that all men suffer , and that it is a kind of anthropological-religious pride on the part of the Jew to believe that his suffering is more poignant than mine or anyone else's .
This is not to deny the existence of pogroms and ghettos , but only to assert that these horrors have had an effect on the nerves of people who did not experience them , that among the various side effects is the local hysteria of Jewish writers and intellectuals who cry out from confusion , which they call oppression and pain .
In their stupidity and arrogance they believe they are called upon to remind the gentile continually of pogroms and ghettos .
Some of us have imagination and sensibility too .
Finally , there is the undeniable fact that some of the finest American fiction is being written by Jews , but it is not Jewish fiction ; ;
Saul Bellow and Bernard Malamud , through intellectual toughness , perception , through experience in fact , have obviously liberated themselves from any sentimental Krim self-indulgence they might have been tempted to .
Krim's main attack is upon the aesthetic and the publishing apparatus of American literary culture in our day .
Krim was able to get an advance for a novel , and time and opportunity to write at Yaddo , but it was no good .
`` I had natural sock '' , he says , ' as a storyteller and was precociously good at description , dialogue , and most of the other staples of the fiction-writer's trade but I was bugged by a mammoth complex of thoughts and feelings that prevented me from doing more than just diddling the surface of sustained fiction-writing '' .
And again , `` how can you write when you haven't yet read ' Bartleby The Scrivener ' '' ? ?
Krim came to believe that `` the novel as a form had outlived its vital meaning '' .
His `` articulate Jewish friends '' convinced him that education ( read `` reading '' ) was `` a must '' .
He moved in a `` highly intellectual '' group in Greenwich Village in the late forties , becoming `` internationalized '' overnight .
Then followed a period in which he wrote reviews for The New York Times Book Review , The Commonweal , Commentary , had a small piece in Partisan Review , and moved on to Hudson , The Village Voice , and Exodus .
The work for Commonweal was more satisfying than work for Commentary `` because of the staff's tiptoeing fear of making a booboo '' .
Commentary was a mere suburb of Partisan Review , the arch-enemy .
Both magazines were `` rigid with reactionary what-will-T. S. Eliot-or-Martin Buber-think ? ?
fear .
'' Partisan has failed , Krim says , for being `` snob-clannish , overcerebral , Europeanish , aristocratically alienated '' from the U.S. .
It was `` the creation of a monstrous historical period wherein it thought it had to synthesize literature and politics and avant-garde art of every kind with its writers crazily trying to outdo each other in Spenglerian inclusiveness .
'' Kenyon , Sewanee , and Hudson operated in an `` Anglo-Protestant New Critical chill '' ; ;
their example caused Krim and his friends to put on `` Englishy airs , affect all sorts of impressive scholarship and social-register unnaturalness in order to slip through their narrow transoms and get into their pages '' .
Qui s'excuse s'accuse , as the French Jewish intellectuals used to say .
Through all this raving , Krim is performing a traditional and by now boring rite , the attack on intelligence , upon the largely successful attempt of the magazines he castigates to liberate American writing from local color and other varieties of romantic corn .
God knows that Partisan and the rest often were , and remain , guilty of intellectual flatulence .
Sociological jargon , Germano-Slavic approximations to English , third-rate but modish fiction , and outrages to common sense have often disfigured Partisan , and in lesser degree , the other magazines on the list .
What Krim ignores , in his contempt for history and for accuracy , is that these magazines , Partisan foremost , brought about a genuine revolution in the American mind from the mid-thirties to approximately 1950 .
The most obvious characteristic of contemporary American writing , apart from the beat nonsense , is its cosmopolitanism .
The process of cosmopolitanism had begun in earnest about 1912 , but the First War and the depression virtually stalled that process in its tracks .
Without the good magazines , without their book reviews , their hospitality to European writers , without above all their awareness of literary standards , we might very well have had a generation of Krim's heroes -- Wolfes , Farrells , Dreisers , and I might add , Sandburgs and Frosts and MacLeishes in verse -- and then where would we be ? ?
Screwed , stewed , and tattooed , as Krim might say after reading a book about sailors .
When Partisan and Kenyon set up shop , Mencken was still accepted as an arbiter of taste ( remember Hergesheimer ? ?
) , George Jean Nathan and Alexander Woollcott were honored in odd quarters , and the whole Booth Tarkington , Willa Catheter ( sic ) , ) Pearl , Buck , , Amy Lowell , William Lyon Phelps atmosphere lay thick as Los Angeles smog
over , the , country -- .
Politics , economics , sociology -- the entire area of life that lies `` between '' -- literature and what Krim calls experience -- urgently needed to be dug into .
The universities certainly were not doing it , nor were the popular magazines of the day .
This Partisan above all did ; ;
if it had never printed a word of literature its contribution to the politico-sociological area would still be historic .
But it did print good verse and good fiction .
If , the editors sometimes , dozed and printed pretentious , New , York-mind , dross , they , also printed , Malraux , , Silone , , Chiaromonte , , Gide , Bellow , , Robert Lowell , Francis Fergusson , Mary McCarthy , Delmore Schwartz , Mailer , Elizabeth Hardwick , Eleanor Clark , , and a host of , other good writers .
Partisan Review and the other literary magazines helped to educate , in the best sense , an entire generation .
That these magazines also deluded the Krims of the world is unfortunate but inevitable .
It is a fact of life that magazines are edited by groups : they have to be or they wouldn't be published at all .
And it is also a fact of life that there will always ( be youngish half-educated people around , who will be dazzled by the glitter of what looks like a literary movement .
( there are no ) literary movements , `` there are only writers doing their work .
Literary movements are the '' , creation of pimps who live off writers .
) when Krim says mine was as severe a critical-intellectual , environment as can be imagined , he is off his rocker .
He indicates that he has none of the , disciplines that criticism requires , including education ; ;
the result was his inevitable bedazzlement through , ignorance .
He wasn't being , `` educated in '' those Village bull-sessions , as he claims .
No one was ever educated through bull-sessions in anything other than , to quote him again , `` perfumed bullshit .
Only '' a New York hick would expect to find the literary life in Greenwich Village , at any point , later than Walt Whitman's day .
The highly intellectual minds that Krim says he encountered , in the Village did their work in spite of , , not because of , any Village atmosphere .
But Krim's complaint is important because not only in New York , but in other cities and in universities throughout this country , young and not , so young men at
this moment are being bedazzled by half-digested ideas .
Those who have quality will outgrow `` the experience ; ;
the '' , rest will turn beat , or into dentists , or into beat , dentists .
For the sad truth is that while one might write well without having read Bartleby The Scrivener , one is more likely , to write well if one has `` read it , and much else .
The most appalling aspect of Krim's piece is his reflection of the beat aesthetic .
He mentions the beats only once '' , when he refers to their having revived through mere power and abandonment and the unwillingness to , commit death in life some idea of a decent equivalent between verbal expression and actual experience , , but the entire narrative , is written in the tiresome vocabulary `` of '' that lost `` and '' dying cause , `` and in the '' `` sprung syntax that is supposed to supplant , our mother , tongue .
Krim's ( aesthetic combines anti-intellectualism , conscious and unconscious naivete ) '' , and a winsome reliance `` upon the '' , natural and upon experience .
Ideas are the thruway to nowhere .
My `` touchstones , had , been strictly '' literature and , humanly enough , American literature ( because that was what I wanted to write ) .
He alludes to something called direct writing , and he finds that criticism gets in the way of his truer , realer , imaginative bounce .
There had been signs and portents like the regular toppling over and defacing of the bust of Lauro Di Bosis near the Villa Lante and in the Gianicolo .
Something was happening all right , slowly it is true , but you could feel it .
The Italians felt it .
Little things .
An Italian poet had noticed plainclothes policemen lounging around the area of Quirinal Palace , the first time since the war .
At least they hadn't stepped up and asked to see papers in the hated , flat , dialect mispronunciation of Mussolini's home district -- Dogumenti , per favore .
But , who knew , that might be coming one of these days .
There were other Italians who still bore scars they had earned in police station basements , resisting .
They laughed and , true to national form and manners , never talked long or solemnly on any subject at all , but some of them worried out loud about short memories and ghosts .
We saw Giuseppe Berto at a party once in a while , tall , lean , nervous and handsome , and , in our opinion , the best novelist of them all except Pavese , and Pavese is dead .
Berto's The Sky Is Red had been a small masterpiece and in its special way the best book to come out of the war .
Now he was married to a beautiful girl , had a small son , and lived in an expensive apartment and worked for the movies .
On his desk was a slowly accumulating treatment and script of The Count Of Monte Cristo .
On his bookshelves were some of the latest American novels , including Bellow's Seize The Day , but he hadn't read them ( they were sent by American publishers ) and wasn't especially interested in what the American writers were up to .
He was interested in Robert Musil's The Man Without Qualities .
So were a lot of other people .
He was interested in Italo Svevo .
He was thinking his way into a new novel , a big one , one that people had been waiting for .
It was going to be hard going all the way because he hadn't written seriously for a while , except for a few stories , was tired of the old method of realismo he had so successfully used in The Sky Is Red .
This one was going to be different .
He had bought a little piece of property down along the coast of the hard country of Calabria that he knew so well .
He was going to do one or two more films for cash and then chuck it all , leave Rome and its intellectual cliques and money-fed life , go back to Calabria .
Berto seemed worried , too .
He knew all about it and had put it down in journal form in The War In A Black Shirt , a wonderful book not , for some strange reason , published in the U.S. .
He knew all about the appeal of a black shirt and jackboots to a poor , southern , peasant boy .
He knew all about the infection and the fever , and , too , the moment of realization when he saw for himself , threw up his hands and quit , ended the war as a prisoner in Texas .
Berto knew all about Fascism .
So did his friend , the young novelist Rimanelli .
Rimanelli is tough and square-built and adventurous , says what he thinks .
He had put it down in a war novel , The Day Of The Lion .
These people were not talking much about it , but you , a foreigner , sensed their apprehension and disappointment .
So there we were talking around and about it .
The English lady said she had to go to Vienna for a while .
It was a pity because she had planned to lay a wreath at the foot of the Garibaldi statue , towering over Rome in spectacular benediction from the highpoint of the Gianicolo .
Around that statue in the green park where children play and lovers walk in twos and there is a glowing view of the whole city , in that park are the rows of marble busts of Garibaldi's fallen men , the ones who one day rushed out of the Porta San Pancrazio and , under fire all the way , up the long , straight narrow lane to take , then lose the high ground of the Villa Doria Pamphili .
When they lost it , the French artillery moved in , and that was the end for Garibaldi that time , on 30 April 1849 .
Once out of the gate they had charged straight up the narrow lane .
We had walked it many times and shivered , figuring what a fish barrel it had been for the French .
Now the park is filled with marble busts and all the streets in the immediate area have the full and proper names of the men who fell .
We were at a party once and heard an idealistic young European call that awful charge glorious .
Our companion was a huge , plain-spoken American sculptor who had been a sixteen-year-old rifleman all across France in 1944 .
He said it was stupid butchery to order men to make a charge like that , no matter who gave the order and what for .
`` Oh , it would be butchery all right '' , the European said .
`` We would see it that way , but it was glorious then .
It was the last time in history anybody could do something gloriously like that '' .
I thought : Who is older now ? ?
Old world and new world .
The sculptor looked at him , bugeyed and amazed , angry .
He had made an assault once with 180 men .
It was a picked assault company .
They went up against an SS unit of comparable size , over a little rise of ground , over an open field .
Object -- a village crossroads .
They made it , killed every last one of the Krauts , took the village on schedule .
When it was over , eight of his company were still alive and all eight were wounded .
The whole thing , from the moment when they jumped heavily off the trucks , spread out and moved into position just behind the cover of that slight rise of ground and then jumped off , took maybe between twenty and thirty minutes .
The sculptor looked at him , let the color drain out of his face , grinned , and looked down into his drink , a bad Martini made with raw Italian gin .
`` Bullshit '' , he said softly .
`` Excuse me '' , the European said .
`` I am not familiar with the expression '' .
The apartment where we were talking that afternoon in March faced onto the street Garibaldi's men had charged up and along .
Across the way from the apartment building is a ruined house , shot to hell that day in 1849 , and left that way as a memorial .
There is a bronze wreath on the wall .
Like everything else in Rome , ruins and monuments alike , that house is lived in .
I have seen diapers strung across the ruined roof .
The English lady really wanted to put a wreath on the Garibaldi monument on the 30th of April .
She had her reasons for this .
For one thing , there wasn't going to be any ceremony at all this year .
There were a few reasons for that , too : Garibaldi had been taken up and exploited by the Communists nowadays .
Therefore the government wanted no part of him .
( It is sort of as if our government should decide to disown Washington or Lincoln for the same reason .
) And then there were ecclesiastical matters , the matter of Garibaldi's anti-clericalism .
There was a new Pope and the Vatican was making itself heard and felt these days .
As it happens the English lady is a good Catholic herself , but of more liberal political persuasion .
Nothing was going to be done this year to celebrate Garibaldi's bold and unsuccessful defense of Rome .
All that the English lady wanted to do was to walk up to the monument and lay a wreath at its base .
This would show that somebody , even a foreigner living in Rome , cared .
And then there were other things .
Some of the marble busts in the park are of young Englishmen who fought and died for Garibaldi .
She also mentioned leaving a little bunch of flowers at the bust of Lauro Di Bosis .
It is hard for me to know how I feel about Lauro Di Bosis .
I suffer from mixed feelings .
He was a well-to-do , handsome , and sensitive young poet .
His bust shows an intense , mustached , fine-featured face .
He flew over Rome one day during the early days of Mussolini and scattered leaflets over the city , denouncing the Fascists .
He was never heard of again .
He is thought either to have been killed by the Fascists as soon as he landed or to have killed himself by flying out to sea and crashing his plane .
He was , thus , an early and spectacular victim .
And there is something so wonderfully romantic about it all .
He really didn't know how to fly .
He had crashed on takeoff once before .
Gossip had it ( for gossip is the soul of Rome ) that a famous American dancer of the time had paid for both the planes .
It was absurd and dramatic .
It is remembered and has been commemorated by a bust in a park and a square in the city which was renamed Piazzo Lauro Di Bosis after the war .
Most Romans , even some postmen , know it by the old name .
Faced with a gesture like Di Bosis' , I find usually that my sentiments are closer to those of my sculptor friend .
The things that happened in police station basements were dirty , grubby , and most often anonymous .
No poetry , no airplanes , no dancers .
That is how the real routine of resistance goes on , and its strength is directly proportionate to the number of insignificant people who can let themselves be taken to pieces , piece by piece , without quitting .
It is an ugly business and there are few , if any , wreaths for them .
I keep thinking of a young woman I knew during the Occupation in Austria .
She was from Prague .
She had been picked up by the Russians , questioned in connection with some pamphlets , sentenced to life imprisonment for espionage .
She escaped , crawled through the usual mine fields , under barbed wire , was shot at , swam a river , and we finally picked her up in Linz .
She showed us what had happened to her .
No airplanes , no Nathan Hale statements .
Just no spot , not even a dimesize spot , on her whole body that wasn't bruised , bruise on top of bruise , from beatings .
I understand very well about Lauro Di Bosis and how his action is symbolic .
The trouble is that like many symbols it doesn't seem a very realistic one .
The English lady wanted to pay tribute to Garibaldi and to Lauro Di Bosis , but she wasn't going to be here to do it .
Were any of us interested enough in the idea to do it for her , by proxy so to speak ? ?
There was a pretty thorough silence at that point .
My spoon stirring coffee , banging against the side of the cup , sounded as loud as a bell .
I thought : What the hell ? ?
Why not ? ?
I said I would do it for her .
I had some reasons , too .
I admire the English lady .
I hate embarrassing silences and have been known to make a fool out of myself just to prevent one .
I also had and have feelings about Garibaldi .
Like every Southerner I can't escape the romantic tradition of brave defeats , forlorn lost causes .
Though Garibaldi's fight was small shakes compared to Pickett's Charge -- which , like all Southerners , I view in almost Miltonic terms , fallen angels , etc. -- I associated the two .
And to top it all I am often sentimental on purpose , trying to prove to myself that I am not afraid of sentiment .
So much for all that .
The English lady was pleased and enthusiastic .
She gave me the names of some people who would surely help pay for the flowers and might even march up to the monument with me .
The idea of the march pleased her .
Maybe twenty , thirty , fifty .
Maybe I could call Rimanelli at the magazine Rottosei where he worked .
The Office of Business Economics ( OBE ) of the U.S. Department of Commerce provides basic measures of the national economy and current analysis of short-run changes in the economic situation and business outlook .
It develops and analyzes the national income , balance of international payments , and many other business indicators .
Such measures are essential to its job of presenting business and Government with the facts required to meet the objective of expanding business and improving the operation of the economy .
Contact
For further information contact Director , Office of Business Economics , U.S. Department of Commerce , Washington 25 , D.C. .
Printed material
Economic information is made available to businessmen and economists promptly through the monthly Survey Of Current Business and its weekly supplement .
This periodical , including weekly statistical supplements , is available for $4 per year from Commerce Field Offices or Superintendent of Documents , U.S. Government Printing Office , Washington 25 , D.C. .
Technical assistance to small business community
The Small Business Administration ( SBA ) provides guidance and advice on sources of technical information relating to small business management and research and development of products .
Small business management
Practical management problems and their suggested solutions are dealt with in a series of SBA publications .
These publications , written especially for the managers or owners of small businesses , indirectly aid in community development programs .
They are written by specialists in numerous types of business enterprises , cover a wide range of subjects , and are directed to the needs and interests of the small firm .
SBA offers Administrative Management Courses , which are designed to improve the management efficiency and `` know-how '' of small business concerns within a community .
SBA cosponsors these courses with educational institutions and community groups .
Through the SBA's Management Counseling Program , practical , personalized advice on sound management principles is available upon request to both prospective and established businessmen in a community .
One-day conferences covering some specific phase of business management , also part of the continuing activities of the Small Business Administration , aid community economic development programs .
These short , `` streamlined '' meetings usually are sponsored by local banks , Chambers of Commerce , trade associations , or other civic organizations .
Product research and development
Production specialists in SBA regional offices are available to help individual small business concerns with technical production problems .
Guidance and advice are available on new product research and development ; ;
new product potential ; ;
processing methods ; ;
product and market developments ; ;
new industrial uses for raw , semi-processed and waste , materials ; ;
and industrial uses for agricultural products .
SBA serves also as a clearing house for information on products and processes particularly adaptable for exploitation by small firms .
This may be helpful in improving the competitive position of established firms through diversification and expansion or through more economical utilization of plant capacity .
Production assistance
Production specialists are available in SBA regional offices to help individual small business concerns with technical production problems .
These problems frequently arise where a firm is making items for the Government not directly along the lines of its normal civilian business or where the Government specifications require operations that the firm did not understand when it undertook the contract .
Production assistance often takes the form of locating tools or materials which are urgently needed .
Advice is given also on problems of plant location and plant space .
Property sales assistance
The property sales assistance program is designed to assist small business concerns that may wish to buy property offered for sale by the Federal Government .
Under this program , property sales specialists in the Small Business Administration regional offices help small business concerns to locate Federal property for sale and insure that small firms have the opportunity to bid competitively for surplus personal and real property and certain natural resources , including timber from the national forests .
SBA works closely with the principal property disposal installations of the Federal Government in reviewing proposed sales programs and identifying those types of property that small business concerns are most likely to be interested in purchasing .
Proposed property sales of general interest to small business concerns are publicized through SBA regional news releases , and by `` flyers '' directed to the small business concerns .
Each SBA regional office also maintains a `` want '' list of surplus property , principally machinery and equipment , desired by small business concerns in its area .
When suitable equipment is located by the SBA representative , the small business concern is contacted and advised on when , where , and how to bid on such property .
Facilities inventory
Section 8-b-2 of the Small Business Act , as amended , authorizes the SBA to make a complete inventory of the productive facilities of small business concerns .
The Administration maintains a productive facilities inventory of small business industrial concerns that have voluntarily registered .
It is kept in each Regional office for the small firms within the region .
Purpose of this inventory is to include all eligible productive facilities in SBA's facilities register so that the small business concerns may have an opportunity to avail themselves of the services authorized by the Congress in establishing the Small Business Administration .
These services include procurement and technical assistance and notice of surplus sales and invitations to bid on Government contracts for products and services within the registrants' field of operations .
SBA can make complete facilities inventories of all small business concerns in labor surplus areas within budgetary and staff limitations .
Contact
For further information , contact Small Business Administration Regional Offices in Atlanta , Ga. ; ;
Boston , Mass. ; ;
Chicago , Ill. ; ;
Cleveland , Ohio ; ;
Dallas , Tex. ; ;
Denver , Colo. ; ;
Detroit , Mich. ; ;
Kansas City , Mo. ; ;
Los Angeles , Calif. ; ;
Minneapolis , Minn. ; ;
New York , N.Y. ; ;
Philadelphia , Pa. ; ;
Richmond , Va. ; ;
San Francisco , Calif. ; ;
and Seattle , Wash. .
Branch Offices are located in other large cities .
Printed material
Small Business Administration , What It Is , What It Does , SBA Services For Community Economic Development , and various other useful publications on currently important management , technical production , and marketing topics are available , on request , from Small Business Administration , Washington 25 , D.C. .
New Product Introduction For Small Business Owners , 30 cents ; ;
Developing And Selling New Products , 45 cents ; ;
U.S. Government Purchasing , Specifications , And Sales Directory , 60 cents , are available from the Superintendent of Documents , U.S. Government Printing Office , Washington 25 , D.C. .
Loans
to small business
SBA makes loans to individual small business firms , providing them with financing when it is not otherwise available through private lending sources on reasonable terms .
Many such loans have been made to establish small concerns or to aid in their growth , thereby contributing substantially to community development programs .
Loan policies
SBA loans , which may be made to small manufacturers , small business pools , wholesalers , retailers , service establishments and other small businesses ( when financing is not otherwise available to them on reasonable terms ) , are to finance business construction , conversion , or expansion ; ;
the purchase of equipment , facilities , machinery , supplies , or materials ; ;
or to supply working capital .
Evidence that other sources of financing are unavailable must be provided .
Types of loans
SBA business loans are of two types : `` participation '' and `` direct '' .
Participation loans are those made jointly by the SBA and banks or other private lending institutions .
Direct loans are those made by SBA alone .
To qualify for either type of loan , an applicant must be a small business or approved small business `` pool '' and must meet certain credit requirements .
A small business is defined as one which is independently owned and operated and which is not dominant in its field .
In addition , the SBA uses such criteria as number of employees and dollar volume of the business .
Credit requirements
The credit requirements stipulate that the applicant must have the ability to operate the business successfully and have enough capital in the business so that , with loan assistance from the SBA , it will be able to operate on a sound financial basis .
A proposed loan must be for sound purposes or sufficiently secured so as to assure a reasonable chance of repayment .
The record of past earnings and prospects for the future must indicate it has the ability to repay the loan out of current and anticipated income .
Loan amount
The amount which may be borrowed from the SBA depends on how much is required to carry out the intended purpose of the loan .
The maximum loan which SBA may make to any one borrower is $350,000 .
Business loans generally are repayable in regular installments -- usually monthly , including interest at the rate of 5-1/2 percent per annum on the unpaid balance -- and have a maximum maturity of 10 years ; ;
the term of loans for working capital is 6 years .
Contact
For further information , contact SBA Regional Offices in Atlanta , Ga. ; ;
Boston , Mass. ; ;
Chicago , Ill. ; ;
Cleveland , Ohio ; ;
Dallas , Tex. ; ;
Denver , Colo. ; ;
Detroit , Mich. ; ;
Kansas City , Mo. ; ;
Los Angeles , Calif. ; ;
Minneapolis , Minn. ; ;
New York , N.Y. ; ;
Philadelphia , Pa. ; ;
Richmond , Va. ; ;
San Francisco , Calif. ; ;
and Seattle , Wash. .
Branch Offices are located in other large cities .
Printed material
Small Business Administration , What It Is , What It Does ; ;
SBA Business Loans ; ;
and Small Business Pooling are available , on request , from Small Business Administration , Washington 25 , D.C. , and its regional offices .
To cooperatives
The Farm Credit Administration , an independent agency located within the Department of Agriculture , supervises and coordinates a cooperative credit system for agriculture .
The system is composed of three credit services , Federal Land Banks and National Farm Loan Associations , Federal Intermediate ( short-term ) Credit Banks , and Banks for Cooperatives .
This system provides long- and short-term credit to farmers and their cooperative marketing , purchasing , and business service organizations .
As a source of investment capital , the system is beneficial to local communities and encourages the development of industries in rural areas .
The credit provdied by the first two services in the system outlined above is primarily for general agricultural purposes .
The third credit service , Banks for Cooperatives , exists under authority of the Farm Credit Act of 1933 .
The Banks for Cooperatives were established to provide a permanent source of credit on a sound basis for farmers' cooperatives .
Types of loans
Three distinct classes of loans are made available to farmers' cooperatives by the Banks for Cooperatives : Commodity loans , operating capital loans , and facility loans .
Eligibility
To be eligible to borrow from a Bank for Cooperatives , a cooperative must be an association in which farmers act together in processing and marketing farm products , purchasing farm supplies , or furnishing farm business services , and must meet the requirements set forth in the Farm Credit Act of 1933 , as amended .
Interest rates
Interest rates are determined by the board of directors of the bank with the approval of the Farm Credit Administration .
Contact
For further information , contact the Bank for Cooperatives serving the region , or the Farm Credit Administration , Research and Information Division , Washington 25 , D.C. .
Printed material
Available , on request , from U.S. Department of Agriculture , Washington 25 , D.C. , are : Cooperative Farm Credit Can Assist In Rural Development ( Circular No. 44 ) , and The Cooperative Farm Credit System ( Circular No. 36-A ) .
Minerals exploration
To encourage exploration for domestic sources of minerals , the Office of Minerals Exploration ( OME ) of the U.S. Department of the Interior offers financial assistance to firms and individuals who desire to explore their properties or claims for 1 or more of the 32 mineral commodities listed in the OME regulations .
Requirements
This help is offered to applicants who ordinarily would not undertake the exploration under present conditions or circumstances at their sole expense and who are unable to obtain funds from commercial sources on reasonable terms .
Each applicant is required to own or have sufficient interest in the property to be explored .
The Government will contract with an eligible applicant to pay up to one-half of the cost of approved exploration work as it progresses .
The applicant pays the rest of the cost , but his own time spent on the work and charges for the use of equipment which he owns may be applied toward his share of the cost .
Repayment
Funds contributed by the Government are repaid by a royalty on production from the property .
If nothing is produced , there is no obligation to repay .
A 5-percent royalty is paid on any production during the period the contract is in effect ; ;
if the Government certifies that production may be possible from the property , the royalty obligation continues for the 10-year period usually specified in the contract or until the Government's contribution is repaid with interest .
The royalty applies to both principal and interest , but it never exceeds 5 percent .
Contact
Information , application forms , and assistance in filing may be obtained from the Office of Minerals Exploration , U.S. Department of the Interior , Washington 25 , D.C. , or from the appropriate regional office listed below .
In most of the less developed countries , however , such programing is at best inadequate and at worst nonexistent .
Only a very few of the more advanced ones , such as India and Pakistan , have developed systematic techniques of programing .
Others have so-called development plans , but some of these are little more than lists of projects collected from various ministries while others are statements of goals without analysis of the actions required to attain them .
Only rarely is attention given to accurate progress reports and evaluation .
We can help in the planning process
.
Neither growth nor a development program can be imposed on a country ; ;
it must express the nation's own will and goal .
Nevertheless , we can administer an aid program in such a manner as to promote the development of responsible programing .
First , we can encourage responsibility by establishing as conditions for assistance on a substantial and sustained scale the definition of objectives and the assessment of costs .
Second , we can make assistance for particular projects conditional on the consistency of such projects with the program .
Third , we can offer technical help in the formulation of programs for development which are adapted to the country's objectives and resources .
This includes assistance in -- assembling the basic economic , financial , technological , and educational information on which programing depends ; ;
surveying the needs and requirements over time of broad sectors of the economy , such as transport , agriculture , communication , industry , and power ; ;
designing the financial mechanisms of the economy in ways that will promote growth without inflation ; ;
and administrative practices which will make possible the more effective review and implementation of programs once established .
We must use common sense in applying conditions
.
The application of conditions in the allocation of aid funds cannot , of course , be mechanical .
It must be recognized that countries at different stages of development have very different capabilities of meeting such conditions .
To insist on a level of performance in programing and budgeting completely beyond the capabilities of the recipient country would result in the frustration of the basic objective of our development assistance to encourage more rapid growth .
In the more primitive areas , where the capacity to absorb and utilize external assistance is limited , some activities may be of such obvious priority that we may decide to support them before a well worked out program is available .
Thus , we might provide limited assistance in such fields as education , essential transport , communications , and agricultural improvement despite the absence of acceptable country programs .
In such a case , however , we would encourage the recipient country to get on with its programing task , supply it with substantial technical assistance in performing that task , and make it plain that an expansion or even a continuation of our assistance to the country's development was conditional upon programing progress being made .
At the other end of the spectrum , where the more advanced countries can be relied upon to make well thought through decisions as to project priorities within a consistent program , we should be prepared to depart substantially from detailed project approval as the basis for granting assistance and to move toward long-term support , in cooperation with other developed countries , of the essential foreign exchange requirements of the country's development program .
D .
Encouraging self-help
1 .
The reasons for stressing self-help
A systematic approach to development budgeting and programing is one important kind of self-help .
There are many others .
It is vitally important that the new U.S. aid program should encourage all of them , since the main thrust for development must come from the less developed countries themselves .
External aid can only be marginal , although the margin , as in the case of the Marshall plan , can be decisive .
External aid can be effective only if it is a complement to self-help .
U.S. aid , therefore , should increasingly be designed to provide incentives for countries to take the steps that only they themselves can take .
Aid advice is not interference
.
In establishing conditions of self-help , it is important that we not expect countries to remake themselves in our image .
Open societies can take many forms , and within very broad limits recipients must be free to set their own goals and to devise their own institutions to achieve those goals .
On the other hand , it is no interference with sovereignty to point out defects where they exist , such as that a plan calls for factories without power to run them , or for institutions without trained personnel to staff them .
Once we have made clear that we are genuinely concerned with a country's development potential , we can be blunt in suggesting the technical conditions that must be met for development to occur .
2 .
The range of self-help
The major areas of self-help are the following : ( A ) the effective mobilizing of resources .
This includes not only development programing , but also establishing tax policies designed to raise equitably resources for investment ; ;
fiscal and monetary policies designed to prevent serious inflation ; ;
and regulatory policies aimed to attract the financial and managerial resources of foreign investment and to prevent excessive luxury consumption by a few .
( B ) the reduction of dependence on external sources .
This includes foreseeing balance-of-payments crises , with adequate attention to reducing dependence on imports and adopting realistic exchange rates to encourage infant industries and spur exports .
It also includes providing for the training of nationals to operate projects after they are completed .
( C ) tapping the energies of the entire population .
For both economic and political reasons all segments of the population must be able to share in the growth of a country .
Otherwise , development will not lead to longrun stability .
( D ) honesty in government .
In many societies , what we regard as corruption , favoritism , and personal influence are so accepted as consistent with the mores of officialdom and so integral a part of routine administrative practice that any attempt to force their elimination will be regarded by the local leadership as not only unwarranted but unfriendly .
Yet an economy cannot get the most out of its resources if dishonesty , corruption , and favoritism are widespread .
Moreover , tolerance by us of such practices results in serious waste and diversion of aid resources and in the long run generates anti-American sentiment of a kind peculiarly damaging to our political interest .
Some of the most dramatic successes of Communism in winning local support can be traced to the identification -- correct or not -- of Communist regimes with personal honesty and pro-Western regimes with corruption .
A requirement of reasonably honest administration may be politically uncomfortable in the short run , but it is politically essential in the long run .
3 .
U.S. position on self-help
The United States can use its aid as an incentive to self-help by responding with aid on a sustained basis , tailored to priority needs , to those countries making serious efforts in self-help .
In many instances it can withhold or limit its aid to countries not yet willing to make such efforts .
There are other countries where , with skillful diplomacy , we may be able by our aid to give encouragement to those groups in government which would like to press forward with economic and social reform measures to promote growth .
Governments are rarely monolithic .
But there will be still other countries where , despite the inadequacy of the level of self-help , we shall deem it wise , for political or military reasons , to give substantial economic assistance .
Even in these cases we should promote self-help by making it clear that our supporting assistance is subject to reduction and ultimately to termination .
E .
Encouraging a long-term approach
1 .
Development requires a long-term approach
.
The most fundamental concept of the new approach to economic aid is the focusing of our attention , our resources , and our energies on the effort to promote the economic and social development of the less developed countries .
This is not a short-run goal .
To have any success in this effort , we must ourselves view it as an enterprise stretching over a considerable number of years , and we must encourage the recipients of our aid to view it in the same fashion .
Most of our aid will go to those nearing self-sufficiency
.
How long it will take to show substantial success in this effort will vary greatly from country to country .
In several significant cases , such as India , a decade of concentrated effort can launch these countries into a stage in which they can carry forward their own economic and social progress with little or no government-to-government assistance .
These cases in which light is already visible at the other end of the tunnel are ones which over the next few years will absorb the bulk of our capital assistance .
Gradually others will move up to the same level
.
The number of countries thus favorably situated is small , but their peoples constitute over half of the population of the underdeveloped world .
Meantime , over the decade of the sixties , we can hope that many other countries will ready themselves for the big push into self-sustaining growth .
In still others which are barely on the threshold of the transition into modernity , the decade can bring significant progress in launching the slow process of developing their human resources and their basic services to the point where an expanded range of developmental activities is possible .
Aid is a long-term process
.
The whole program must be conceived of as an effort , stretching over a considerable number of years , to alter the basic social and economic conditions in the less developed world .
It must be recognized as a slow-acting tool designed to prevent political and military crises such as those recently confronted in Laos and Cuba .
It is not a tool for dealing with these crises after they have erupted .
2 .
The specific reasons for a long-term approach
( A ) the need to budget a period of years .
Many of the individual projects for which development assistance is required call for expenditures over lengthy periods .
Dams , river development schemes , transportation networks , educational systems require years to construct .
Moreover , on complex projects , design work must be completed and orders for machinery and equipment placed months or even years before construction can commence .
Thus , as a development program is being launched , commitments and obligations must be entered into in a given year which may exceed by twofold or threefold the expenditures to be made in that year .
The capital expansion programs of business firms involve multi-year budgeting and the same is true of country development programs .
( B ) the need to plan investment programs .
More importantly , several of the more advanced of the less developed countries have found through experience that they must plan their own complex investment programs for at least 5 years forward and tentatively for considerably more than that if they are to be sure that the various interdependent activities involved are all to take place in the proper sequence .
Without such forward planning , investment funds are wasted because manufacturing facilities are completed before there is power to operate them or before there is transport to service them ; ;
or a skilled labor force is trained before there are plants available in which they can be employed .
( C ) the need to allocate country resources .
Most important of all , the less developed countries must be persuaded to take the necessary steps to allocate and commit their own resources .
They must be induced to establish the necessary tax , fiscal , monetary , and regulatory policies .
They must be persuaded to adopt the other necessary self-help measures which are described in the preceding section .
The taking of these steps involves tough internal policy decisions .
Moreover , once these steps are taken , they may require years to make themselves felt .
They must , therefore , be related to long-range development plans .
3 .
Providing an incentive
If the less developed countries are to be persuaded to adopt a long-term approach , the United States , as the principal supplier of external aid , must be prepared to give long-term commitments .
In this , as in so many aspects of our development assistance activities , the incentive effects of the posture we take are the most important ones .
The extent to which we can persuade the less developed countries to appraise their own resources , to set targets toward which they should be working , to establish in the light of this forward perspective the most urgent priorities for their immediate attention , and to do the other things which they must do to help themselves , all on a realistic long-term basis , will depend importantly on the incentives we place before them .
If they feel that we are taking a long-term view of their problems and are prepared to enter into reasonably long-term association with them in their development activities , they will be much more likely to undertake the difficult tasks required .
Perhaps the most important incentive for them will be clear evidence that where other countries have done this kind of home work we have responded with long-term commitments .
You have heard him tell these young people that during his almost 50 years of service in the Congress he has seen the Kaisers and the Hitlers and the Mussolinis , the Tojos and Stalins and Khrushchevs , come and go and that we are passing on to them the freest Nation that mankind has ever known .
Then I have seen the pride of country well in the eyes of these young people .
So , I say , Mr. Speaker , God bless you and keep you for many years not only for this body but for the United States of America and the free world .
You remember the words of President Kennedy a week or so ago , when someone asked him when he was in Canada , and Dean Rusk was in Europe , and Vice President Johnson was in Asia , `` Who is running the store '' ? ?
And he said , `` The same fellow who has been running it , Sam Rayburn '' .
General leave to extend
Mr. McCormack .
Mr. Speaker , I ask unanimous consent that all Members who desire to do so may extend their remarks at this point in the record ; ;
and also that they may have 5 legislative days in which to extend their remarks .
The speaker pro tempore .
Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Massachusetts ? ?
There was no objection .
Remarks of Hon. Joseph P. Addabbo of New York
Mr. Addabbo .
It is notably significant that so many Members from both sides of the aisle express their respect and admiration for our beloved Speaker , the Honorable Sam Rayburn .
I purposely refrained from adding the usual distinction of saying that he was from the State of Texas .
I did so because I agree with so many here today , that he is the beloved Speaker of all the people of the United States .
For the dignity , the influence , and the power of the legislative branch of our Government -- it is a privilege for us to do honor to this great man who represents not alone his own district but all the people of our country .
To honor him is to honor ourselves .
In this my first year as a Member of this body I have experienced many memorable moments .
Many of these experiences are so important that they will be cherished forever by me .
And , like many of you here present , I hold as the highlight of all , the occasion of my first meeting with the honorable Speaker of the House .
At that time , he afforded me the courtesy of his busy workday for such length as I may need , to speak about my background , my hopes , my views on various national and local topics , and any problems that I may have been vexed with at the time .
He was fatherly in his handling of all subjects with me and tremendously wise in his counsel .
In conclusion , he wished me well -- and as kindly and humbly as this humane gentleman could express himself , he asked to be remembered to my wife and children .
In my short period here I believe that at no time has he been otherwise than the most popular man on both sides of the aisle .
He is most effective in the ordinary business of the House , and in the legislative accomplishments of this session , he easily rose to great occasion -- even at the height of unpleasantness and exciting legislative struggle -- and as the Nation witnessed these contests , he rose , even as admitted by those who differed with him , to the proportions of a hero and a noble partisan .
I am highly privileged today to commemorate the brilliant career of this parliamentary giant .
He will ever be my example as a true statesman ; ;
one who is thoroughly human , who affects no dignity , and who is endowed with real ability , genuine worth , and sterling honesty -- all dedicated to secure the best interests of the country he has loved and served so long .
May the Divine Speaker in Heaven bless this country with Sam Rayburn's continued service here for years to come .
Remarks of Hon. Wayne L. Hays of Ohio
Mr. Hays .
It is a matter of deep personal satisfaction for me to add my voice to the great and distinguished chorus of my colleagues in this paean of praise , respect , and affection for Speaker Sam Rayburn .
In this hour of crisis , the wisdom , the dedication , the stabilizing force that he represents in current American government is an almost indispensable source of strength .
He has become in this half century the grand old man of American history .
It seems to me that the prayers of the whole free world must rise like some vast petition to Providence that Sam Rayburn's vigor and his life remain undiminished through the coming decades .
Here briefly in this humble tribute I have sought for some simple and succinct summation that would define the immense service of this patriot to his country .
But the task is beyond me because I hold it impossible to compress in a sentence or two the complicated and prodigious contributions Sam Rayburn has made as an individual , as a legislator , as a statesman and as a leader and conciliator , to the majestic progress of this Nation .
It happens that I am a legislator from Ohio and that I feel deeply about the needs , the aspirations , the interests of my district and my State .
What Sam Rayburn's life proves to us all is the magnificent lesson in political science that one can devotedly and with absolute dedication represent the seemingly provincial interests of one's own community , one's own district , one's own State , and by that help himself represent even better the sweep and scope of the problems of this the greatest nation of all time .
For Sam Rayburn never forgot Bonham , his home community , and he never forgot Texas .
In the same way I like to think we owe our loyalty as legislators to our community , our district , our State .
And , if we follow the Rayburn pattern , as consciously or by an instinctual political sense I like to think I have followed it , then the very nature of our loyalty to our own immediate areas must necessarily be reflected in the devotion of our services to our country .
For what Sam Rayburn's life in this House teaches us is that loyalty and character are not divisive and there is no such thing as being for your country and neglecting your district .
There is no such thing as being diligent about national affairs but indifferent about home needs .
The two are as one .
This may not be the greatest but it certainly comes close to being the greatest lesson Sam Rayburn's career , up to this hour , teaches all of us who would aspire to distinction in political life under our processes of government .
More than that , Sam Rayburn is the very living symbol of an iron-clad integrity so powerful in his nature and so constantly demonstrated that he can count some of his best friends in the opposition .
Through the most rancorous battles of political controversy and the most bitterly fought national and presidential campaigns his character shines as an example of dignity and honesty , forthrightness and nobility .
Sam Rayburn has never had to look back at any of his most devastating fights and ever feel ashamed of his conduct as a combatant under fire or his political manners in the heat of conflicting ambitions .
This means much to the American tradition .
It is an answer in its way , individual and highly dramatic , to the charge that the democratic process is necessarily vicious in its campaign characteristics .
And the name Rayburn is one of the most dominant in the history of American politics for the last half century .
It is , I insist , hard to define the Rayburn contribution to our political civilization because it is so massive and so widespread and so complicated , and because it goes so deep .
But this we know : Here is a great life that in every area of American politics gives the American people occasion for pride and that has invested the democratic process with the most decent qualities of honor , decency , and self-respect .
I pray to God that he may be spared to us for many years to come for this is an influence the United States and the whole world can ill afford to lose .
Remarks of Hon. Melvin Price of Illinois
Mr. Price .
All but two of my nine terms in the House of Representatives has been served under the Speakership of Sam Rayburn .
Of this I am proud .
I have a distinct admiration for this man we honor today because of the humility with which he carries his greatness .
And Sam Rayburn is a great man -- one who will go down in American history as a truly great leader of the Nation .
He will be considered not only great among his contemporaries , but as great among all the Americans who have played a part in the country's history since the beginning .
I pay my personal tribute to Sam Rayburn , stalwart Texan and great American , not only because today he establishes a record of having served as Speaker of the House of Representatives more than twice as long as Henry Clay , but because of the contributions he has made to the welfare of the people of the Nation during his almost half century of service as a Member of Congress .
Speaker Rayburn has not limited his leadership as a statesman to his direction of the House in the Speaker's chair .
He had an outstanding record as a legislator since the start of his career in the House in 1913 , the 63d Congress .
No one has sponsored more progressive and important legislation than has Sam Rayburn .
He is the recognized `` father '' of the Rural Electrification Administration and the Security and Exchange Commission .
But to run the gauntlet of the programs Sam Rayburn brought into being through his legislative efforts would fill the pages of today's Record .
No greater pleasure has come to me in my own service in this House than to be present today to participate in this tribute to this great Speaker , this great legislator , this great Texan , this great American .
My sincere wish is that he continues to add to this record he sets here today .
Remarks of Hon. John S. Monagan of Connecticut
Mr. Monagan .
Sam Rayburn is one of the greatest American public figures in the history of our country and I consider that I have been singly honored in the privilege of knowing Sam Rayburn and sharing with him the rights and obligations of a Member of the House of Representatives in the Congress of the United States .
Others may speak of Speaker Rayburn's uniquely long and devoted service ; ;
of his championship of many of the progressive social measures which adorn our statute books today , and of his cooperation in times of adversity with Presidents of both of our major parties in helping to pilot the Ship of State through the shoals of today's stormy international seas .
I prefer to speak , however , of Sam Rayburn , the person , rather than Sam Rayburn , the American institution .
Although Sam Rayburn affects a gruff exterior in many instances , nevertheless he is fundamentally a man of warm heart and gentle disposition .
No one could be more devoted than he to the American Congress as an institution and more aware of its historical significance in the political history of the world , and I shall never forget his moving talks , delivered in simple yet eloquent words , upon the meaning of our jobs as Representatives in the operation of representative government and their importance in the context of today's assault upon popular government .
Above all , he is a person to whom a fledgling Representative can go to discuss the personal and professional problems which inevitably confront a new Congressman .
In this role of father confessor , he has always been most characteristic and most helpful .
On September 16 , Sam Rayburn will have served as Speaker twice as long as any predecessor and I am proud to join with others in marking this date , and in expressing my esteem for that notable American , Sam Rayburn .
Origin of state automobile practices .
The practice of state-owned vehicles for use of employees on business dates back over forty years .
At least one state vehicle was in existence in 1917 .
The state presently owns 389 passenger vehicles in comparison to approximately 200 in 1940 .
The automobile maintenance unit , or motor pool , came into existence in 1942 and has been responsible for centralized maintenance and management of state-owned transportation since that time .
The motor pool has made exceptional progress in automotive management including establishment of cost billing systems , records keeping , analyses of vehicle use , and effecting economies in vehicle operation .
Cars were operated in 1959 for an average $.027 per mile .
Purchase of state vehicles is handled similarly to all state purchases .
Unit prices to the state are considerably lower than to the general public because of quantity purchases and no payment of state sales or federal excise taxes .
Vehicle purchase , assignment and use policies .
The legislature's role in policy determination concerning state-owned vehicles has been confined almost exclusively to appropriating funds for vehicles .
The meaningful policies governing the purchase , assignment , use and management of state vehicles have been shaped by the state's administrative officers .
Meaningful policies include : ( A ) kinds of cars the state should own , ( B ) when cars should be traded , ( C ) the need and assignment of vehicles , ( D ) use of cars in lieu of mileage allowances , ( E ) employees taking cars home , and ( F ) need for liability insurance on state automobiles .
A review of these policies indicates : ( 1 )
The state purchases and assigns grades of cars according to need and position status of driver and use of vehicle .
( 2 )
The purchase of compact ( economy ) cars is being made currently on a test basis .
( 3 )
Cars are traded mostly on a three-year basis in the interest of economy .
( 4 )
The factors governing need and assignment of cars are flexible according to circumstances .
( 5 )
Unsuccessful efforts have been made to replace high mileage allowances with state automobiles .
( 6 )
It is reasonably economical for the state to have drivers garage state cars at their homes .
( 7 )
The state has recently undertaken liability insurance for drivers of state cars .
Automobile practices in other states .
A survey of practices and/or policies in other states concerning assignment and use of state automobiles reveals several points for comparison with Rhode Island's practices .
Forty-seven states assign or provide vehicles for employees on state business .
Two other states provide vehicles , but only with legislative approval .
States which provide automobiles for employees assign them variously to the agency , the individual , or to a central pool .
Twenty-six states operate a central motor pool for acquisition , allocation and/or maintenance of state-owned vehicles .
Nineteen states report laws , policies or regulations for assigning state vehicles in lieu of paying mileage allowances .
Of these states the average `` change-over '' point ( at which a car is substituted for allowances ) is 13,200 miles per year .
Mileage allowances .
Mileage allowances for state employees are of two types : ( A ) actual mileage and ( B ) fixed monthly allowances .
Actual mileage allowances are itemized reimbursements allowed employees for the use of personally-owned vehicles on state business at the rate of $.07 per mile .
Fixed monthly allowances are reimbursements for the same purpose except on a non-itemized basis .
Both allowances are governed by conditions and restrictions set forth in detail in the state's Travel Regulations .
Rhode Island's reimburseable rate of $.07 per mile for use of personally-owned cars compares favorably with other states' rates .
The average of states' rates is $.076 per mile .
Rhode Island's rate of $.07 per mile is considerably lower than reimburseable rates in the federal government and in industry nationally which approximate a $.09 per mile average .
Actual mileage allowances are well-administered and not unduly expensive for the state .
The travel regulations , requirements and procedures governing reimbursement are controlled properly and not overly restrictive .
Fixed monthly allowances are a controversial subject .
They have a great advantage in ease of audit time and payment .
However , they lend themselves to abuse and inadequate control measures .
Flat payments over $50 per month are more expensive to the state than the assignment of state-owned vehicles .
Travel allowances .
Travel allowances , including subsistence , have been revised by administrative officials recently and compare favorably with other states' allowances .
With few exceptions travelers on state business are allowed actual travel expenses and $15 per day subsistence .
Travel allowances are well-regulated and pose little problem in administration and/or audit control .
Origin of state automobile practices
general background .
It is difficult to pinpoint the time of origin of the state purchasing automobiles for use of employees in Rhode Island .
Few records are available concerning the subject prior to 1940 .
Those that are available shed little light .
The Registry of Motor Vehicles indicates that at least one state automobile was registered as far back as 1917 .
It should be enough to say that the practice of the state buying automobiles is at least forty years old .
The best reason that can be advanced for the state adopting the practice was the advent of expanded highway construction during the 1920s and '30s .
At that time highway engineers traveled rough and dirty roads to accomplish their duties .
Using privately-owned vehicles was a personal hardship for such employees , and the matter of providing state transportation was felt perfectly justifiable .
Once the principle was established , the increase in state-owned vehicles came rapidly .
And reasons other than employee need contributed to the growth .
Table 1 immediately below shows the rate of growth of vehicles and employees .
This rate of increase does not signify anything in itself .
It does not indicate loose management , ineffective controls or poor policy .
But it does show that automobiles have increased steadily over the years and in almost the same proportion to the increase of state employees .
In the past twenty years the ratio of state-owned automobiles per state employees has varied from 1 to 22 then to 1 to 23 now .
Whether there were too few automobiles in 1940 or too many now is problematical .
The fact is simply that state-owned vehicles have remained in practically the same proportion as employees to use them .
History and operation of the motor pool .
While the origin of state-owned automobiles may be obscured , subsequent developments concerning the assignment , use , and management of state automobiles can be related more clearly .
Prior to 1942 , automobiles were the individual responsibility of the agency to which assigned .
This responsibility included all phases of management .
It embraced determining when to purchase and when to trade vehicles , who was to drive , when and where repairs were to be made , where gasoline and automobile services were to be obtained and other allied matters .
In 1942 , however , the nation was at war .
Gasoline and automobile tires were rationed commodities .
The state was confronted with transportation problems similar to those of the individual .
It met these problems by the creation of the state automobile maintenance unit ( more popularly called the motor pool ) , a centralized operation for the maintenance and control of all state transportation .
The motor pool then , as now , had headquarter facilities in Providence and other garages located throughout the state .
It was organizationally the responsibility of the Department of Public Works and was financed on a rotary fund basis with each agency of government contributing to the pool's operation .
In 1951 the pool's operation was transferred to the newly-created Department of Administration , an agency established as the central staff and auxiliary department of the state government .
The management of state-owned vehicles since that time has been described in a recent report in the following manner : ``
Under this new management considerable progress appears to have been made .
The agencies of government are now billed for the actual cost of services provided to each passenger car rather than the prior uniform charge for all cars .
Whereas the maintenance rotary fund had in the past sustained losses considerably beyond expectations , the introduction of the cost-billing system plus other control refinements has resulted in keeping the fund on a proper working basis .
One indication of the merits of the new management is found in the fact that during the period 1951-1956 , while total annual mileage put on the vehicles increased 35% , the total maintenance cost increased only 11% .
``
In order to further refine the management of passenger vehicles , on July 1 , 1958 , the actual title to every vehicle was transferred , by Executive Order , to the Division of Methods , Research and Office Services .
The objective behind this action was to place in one agency the responsibility for the management , assignment , and replacement of all vehicles .
( Note : So far as State Police cars are concerned , only their replacement is under this division ) .
This tied in closely with the current attempt to upgrade state-owned cars to the extent that vehicles are not retained beyond the point where maintenance costs ( in light of depreciation ) become excessive .
Moreover , it allows the present management to reassign vehicles so that mileage will be more uniformly distributed throughout the fleet ; ;
for example , if one driver puts on 22,000 miles per year and another driver 8,000 miles per year , their cars will be switched so that both cars will have 30,000 miles after two years , rather than 44,000 miles ( and related higher maintenance costs ) and 16,000 miles respectively '' .
The motor pool is a completely centralized and mechanized operation .
It handles all types of vehicle maintenance , but concentrates more on `` service station activities '' than on extensive vehicle repairs .
It contracts with outside repair garages for much of the latter work .
Where the pool excels is in its compilation of maintenance and cost-data studies and analyses .
Pool records reveal in detail the cost per mile and miles per gallon of each vehicle , the miles traveled in one year or three years , the periods when vehicle costs become excessive , and when cars should be traded for sound economies .
From this , motor pool personnel develop other meaningful and related data .
In 1959-60 , vehicles averaged an operating cost of $.027 per mile .
Based on this figure and considering depreciation costs of vehicles , pool personnel have determined that travel in excess of 10,000 miles annually is more economical by state car than by payment of allowances for use of personally-owned vehicles .
They estimate further that with sufficient experience and when cost-data of compact cars is compiled , the break-even point may be reduced to 7,500 miles of travel per year .
Table 2 shows operating cost data of state vehicles selected at random .
One matter of concern to the complete effectiveness of pool operations is the lack of adequate central garage facilities .
Present pool quarters at two locations in Providence are crowded , antiquated and , in general , make for inefficient operation in terms of dispersement of personnel and duplication of such operational needs as stock and repair equipment .
Good facilities would be a decided help to pool operations and probably reduce vehicle costs even more .
Purchasing practices .
The purchase of state-owned vehicles is handled in the same manner as all other purchases of the state .
Requests are made by the motor pool along with any necessary cooperation from the agencies to which assignments of cars will be made .
Bids are evaluated by the Division of Purchases with the assistance of pool staff , and awards for the purchase of the automobiles are made to the lowest responsible bidders .
Unit prices for state vehicles are invariably lower than to the general public .
The reasons are obvious : ( 1 ) the state is buying in quantity , and ( 2 ) it has no federal excise or state sales tax to pay .
Until 1958 the state was also entitled to a special type of manufacturers' discount through the dealers .
In that ownership of all vehicles rests with the state motor pool , cars are paid for with funds appropriated to the agencies but transferred to the rotary fund mentioned earlier .
This is a normal governmental procedure which reflects more accurately cost-accounting principles .
The assignment and use of vehicles after purchase is another matter to be covered in detail later .
Vehicle purchase , assignment , and use policies
Probably the most important of all matters for review are the broad administrative policies governing the purchase , assignment , use , and management of state vehicles .
The legislature's role in policy determination in this area for years has been confined almost solely to the amount of funds appropriated annually for the purchase and operation of vehicles .
The more meaningful policies have been left to the judgment of the chief administrative officer of the state -- the Director of Administration .
The Rhode Island property tax
There was a time some years ago when local taxation by the cities and towns was sufficient to support their own operations and a part of the cost of the state government as well .
For many years a state tax on cities and towns was paid by the several municipalities to the state from the proceeds of the general property tax .
This tax was discontinued in 1936 .
Since that time the demands of the citizens for new and expanded services have placed financial burdens on the state which could not have been foreseen in earlier years .
At the same time there has been an upgrading and expansion of municipal services as well .
Thus , there has come into being a situation in which the state must raise all of its own revenues and , in addition , must give assistance to its local governments .
This financial assistance from the state has become necessary because the local governments themselves found the property tax , or at least at the rates then existing , insufficient for their requirements .
Consequently there have developed several forms of grants-in-aid and shared taxes , as well as the unrestricted grant to local governments for general purposes whose adoption accompanied the introduction of a sales tax at the state level .
Notwithstanding state aid , the local governments are continuing to seek additional revenue of their own by strengthening the property tax .
This is being done both by the revaluation of real property and by seeking out forms of personal property hitherto neglected or ignored .
Taxation of tangible movable property in Rhode Island has been generally of a `` hands off '' nature due possibly to several reasons : ( 1 ) local assessors , in the main , are not well paid and have inadequate office staffs , ( 2 ) the numerous categories of this component of personal property make locating extremely difficult , and ( 3 ) the inexperience of the majority of assessors in evaluating this type of property .
Problems of taxing personal property .
Among the many problems in the taxing of personal property , and of movable tangible property in particular , two are significant : ( 1 ) situs , ( 2 ) fair and equitable assessment of value .
These problems are not local to Rhode Island , but are recognized as common to all states .
Situs of property .
Although the laws of the various states , in general , specify the situs of property , i.e. , residence or domicile of the owner , or location of the property , the exceptions regarding boats , airplanes , mobile homes , etc. , seem to add to the uncertainty of the proper origination point for assessment .
Rhode Island law specifies that all real estate is taxable in the town in which it is situated .
It also provides for the taxation of all personal property , belonging to inhabitants of the state , both tangible and intangible , and the tangible personal property of non-residents in this state .
In defining personal property , it specifically mentions `` all ships or vessels , at home or abroad '' .
Intangible property is taxable wherever the owner has a place of abode the greater portion of the year .
Although a similar situs for tangible property is mentioned in the statute , this is cancelled out by the provision that definite kinds of property `` and all other tangible property '' situated or being in any town is taxable where the property is situated .
This would seem to fix the tax situs of all movable personal property at its location on December 31 .
Both boats and aircraft would fall within this category , as well as motor vehicles .
The location of the latter now is determined for tax purposes at the time of registration , and it is now accepted practice to consider a motor vehicle as being situated where it is garaged .
Obviously , it would be impossible to determine where every vehicle might be on the 31st day of December .
In view of the acceptance accorded the status of motor vehicles for tax purposes , in the absence of any specific provision it would seem entirely consistent to apply the same interpretation to boats or aircraft .
A recent example of this problem is the flying of six airplanes , on December 31 , 1960 , from the Newport Airpark in Middletown , to the North Central Airport in Smithfield .
This situation resulted in both towns claiming the tax , and probably justifiably .
Middletown bases its claim on the general provision of the law that `` all rateable property , both tangible and intangible , shall be taxed to the owner thereof in the town in which such owner shall have had his actual place of abode for the larger portion of the twelve ( 12 ) months next preceding the first day of April in each year '' .
The Smithfield tax assessor , in turn , claims the tax under the provision of law `` and all other tangible personal property situated or being in any town , in or upon any place of storage shall be taxed to such person in the town where said property is situated '' .
Assessment of value .
This problem of fair and equitable assessment of value is a difficult one to solve in that the determination of fair valuation is dependent on local assessors , who in general are non-professional and part-time personnel taking an individualistic approach to the problem .
This accounts for the wide variance in assessment practices of movable tangible property in the various municipalities in Rhode Island .
This condition will undoubtedly continue until such time as a state uniform system of evaluation is established , or through mutual agreement of the local assessing officials for a method of standard assessment practice to be adopted .
The Rhode Island Public Expenditure Council in its publication once commented : ``
The most realistic way of facing up to this problem would be to have the State take over full responsibility for assessing all taxable property .
An adequately staffed and equipped State assessing office could apply uniform methods and standards which would go far toward producing equitable assessments on all properties throughout the State .
A single statewide assessing unit would eliminate the differences and complications that are inherent in a system of 39 different and independent assessing units '' .
The Institute of Public Administration , in its report to the State Fiscal Study Commission in 1959 , recommended `` consolidating and centralizing all aspects of property tax administration in a single state agency professionally organized and equipped for the job '' .
The resulting setup , it was declared , `` would be similar to that which is in successful operation in a number of metropolitan counties as large or larger than Rhode Island '' .
Practices in Rhode Island .
To determine the practice and attitude of municipal governments concerning tangible movable property , a questionnaire was sent to all local government assessors or boards of assessors in Rhode Island .
The replies from each individual town are not given in detail because the questions asked the personal opinion of the several assessors and are not necessarily the established policy of the town in each case .
There are legitimate reasons for differences of opinion among the assessors as a whole and among the public officials in each town .
These opinions of the assessors are of significance in indicating what their thinking seems to be at the present time .
In reply to a question of whether they now tax boats , airplanes and other movable property excluding automobiles , nineteen said that they did and twenty that they did not .
The wording of the question was quite general and may have been subject to different interpretations .
One assessor checked boats only , another trailers and tractors , one mentioned house trailers , and two others referred to trailers without specifying the type .
In two cases , airplanes only were indicated .
It is difficult to tabulate exactly what was meant in each individual situation , but the conclusion may be drawn that 21 towns do not assess movable personal property , and of the remainder only certain types are valued for tax purposes .
Boats were indicated specifically by only one of the five towns known to tax boats .
It would seem , then , that movable property and equipment is not taxed as a whole but that certain types are taxed in towns where this is bound to be expedient for that particular kind of personal property .
So few answered the question relating to their efforts to assess movable property that the results are inconclusive .
Only four towns indicated that they made any more than a normal effort to list property of this kind .
Of greater interest is a question as to whether movable property was assessed according to its location or ownership .
Fifteen stated that it was according to location , four by residence of the owner , and nineteen did not answer .
Twenty-seven assessors stated that they were in favor of improved means for assessing movable personal property , and only five were opposed .
Seven others expressed no opinion .
On this point there was fairly general agreement that assessors would like to do more than they are doing now .
It is not clear , however , whether they are thinking of all movable property or only of boats , trailers , aircraft or certain other types of personal property whose assessment would be advantageous to their particular towns .
Another question that was asked of the assessors was whether they favored the assessment of movable property at its location or at the residence of the owner .
Eighteen voted for assessment by the town in which it is located and eleven preferred assessment by the town in which the owner resides .
Ten others made no reply .
Of those who have an opinion , it seems that assessment by location is preferred .
There was one vote for location being the place where the property is situated for the greater portion of the twelve months preceding the assessment date .
To summarize , it may be said that there is no one prevailing practice in Rhode Island with respect to the taxation of movable property , that assessors would like to see an improvement , and of those who have an opinion , that assessment by the town of location is preferred on the basis of their present knowledge .
The need for greater knowledge is evident from their replies .
Boats as personal property
taxing of boats .
Interest has been shown for a number of years by local assessors in the possibility of taxing boats .
Assessors in Rhode Island are charged not only with placing a valuation upon real and personal property , but they also have the responsibility to raise by a tax `` a sum not less than nor more than '' a specified amount as ordered by a city council or financial town meeting .
It has been obvious to the assessors , particularly those in shore communities , that boats comprise the largest category of tangible personal property which they have been unable to reach .
Through their professional organization , the Rhode Island Tax Officials Association the question of taxing boats long has been debated and discussed .
No satisfactory solution has been found , but this is due more to the difficulties inherent in the problem than to a lack of interest or diligence on the part of the assessors .
It has been estimated that the value of boats in Rhode Island waters is something in excess of fifty million dollars , excluding commercial boats .
It is obvious that this is a potential and lucrative source of revenue for the assessors of those towns where a substantial amount of such property would be subject to taxation .
It is known that at least five towns ( Barrington , Bristol , Narragansett , Newport and Westerly ) place some value on some boats for tax purposes .
However , few are taxed , and the owners and location of most boats are unknown to the assessors on the date of assessment of town valuations .
No one really knows how many boats there actually are or what their aggregate value may be .
Slightly more than 5,000 boats were registered with the Coast Guard prior to the recent passage of the state boating law .
Only a few more than 10,000 boats had been registered with the Division of Harbors and Rivers at the end of the 1960 boating season , but many had been taken out of the water early when the threat of a hurricane brought the season to an early close .
The assessors' association , meeting at Narragansett in September 1960 , devoted its session to a discussion of the boat problem .
Local industry's investment in Rhode Island was the big story in 1960's industrial development effort .
Fifty-two companies started or committed themselves to new plant construction , totaling 1,418,000 square feet and representing an investment of $11,900,000 ; ;
a new post-World War 2 , record .
With minor exceptions , this expansion was instituted either by firms based in Rhode Island or out-of-state manufacturers already operating here .
What made these new location figures particularly impressive was the fact that although 1960 was a year of mild business recession throughout the nation , Rhode Island scored marked progress in new industry , new plants , and new jobs .
Of the major expansions in 1960 , three were financed under the R. I. Industrial Building Authority's 100% guaranteed mortgage plan : Collyer Wire , Leesona Corporation , and American Tube & Controls .
Leading firms that arranged their own financing included Speidel Corporation , Cornell-Dubilier , Photek , Inc. Division of Textron , Narragansett Gray Iron Foundry , W. R. Cobb Company , and Mays Manufacturing Company .
Expansion and relocation of industry in Rhode Island is the direct responsibility of the Development Council's Industrial Division , and the figures quoted above indicate a successful year's operation .
Industrial Division personnel worked with 54 out-of-state and 97 Rhode Island concerns during 1960 , many of whom are still interested in a Rhode Island location .
They are conscious of this state's new feeling of optimism and assurance and are definitely impressed by the number of new plants and construction projects in Rhode Island .
Aids to small business
Although much of the Industrial Division's promotional effort is devoted to securing new locations and expansions by major industries , small business is also afforded considerable attention .
Our Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce carries on a vigorous program , directly aimed at solving and expediting the problems of manufacturers in the lower employment categories .
A primary function is the operation of a Government Bid Center , which receives bids daily from the Federal Government's principal purchasing agencies .
Assistance is rendered to interested Rhode Island businessmen concerning interpretation of bid invitations , where to obtain specifications , and follow-ups concerning qualification .
During the past year , 10,517 government bid invitations were received and 4,427 procurement leads were mailed to Rhode Island manufacturers .
In addition , the Office's domestic trade program provided consultant services to those seeking information on establishment of new businesses ; ;
how and where to apply for financial assistance ; ;
details on marketing ; ;
information concerning patents , copyrights and trade marks , availability of technical reports , and other subjects of interest to small business .
The Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce is also active in the field of international trade , assisting Rhode Island firms in developing and enlarging markets abroad .
This office cooperates with the U. S. Department of Commerce in giving statewide coverage to services which include : statistics on markets abroad ; ;
locating foreign agents , buyers , distributors , etc. ; ;
information on foreign and domestic import duties and regulations , licensing , investments , and establishing of branch representatives or plants abroad , and documentary requirements concerning export shipments and arrangements for payment .
During the year 1960 , this office supplied 954 visitors with information related to foreign and domestic commerce , and made 73 field visits .
Advertising program
Our media advertising continued , during 1960 , its previous effective program that stressed such specifics as 100% financing , plant availabilities , and location advantages .
We also continued to run a series of ads featuring endorsement of Rhode Island by industrialists who had recently established new plants here .
To reach a still greater audience of location-minded manufacturers , our industrial advertising budget for the fiscal year was increased from $32,000 to $40,000 , and the Industrial Building Authority's financial participation was upped from $17,000 to $20,000 .
Newspaper advertising was mainly concentrated in the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal ( Eastern and Midwestern editions ) which averaged two prominent ads per month , and to a lesser degree the New York Herald Tribune and , for the west coast , the Los Angeles Times and the Wall Street Journal ( Pacific Coast edition ) .
In addition to the regular schedule , advertisements were run for maximum impact in special editions of the New York Times , Boston Herald , American Banker , Electronic News and , for local promotion , the Providence Sunday Journal .
Magazine advertising included Management Methods , The New Englander , U. S. Investor , and Plant Location .
The direct mail campaign consisted of 3 intra-state mailings of 1680 letters each and 6 out-of-state directed to electronics , plastics , pharmaceutical , and business machine manufacturers , and to publishers .
These totaled 6,768 pieces of correspondence .
The 1960 advertising campaign brought a total of 239 inquiries ; ;
164 from media and 75 from direct mail .
Two hundred and nineteen were received from 35 of our 50 United States and 11 came from foreign countries .
New York led in the number of inquiries , followed by California , New Jersey , Massachusetts , and Pennsylvania .
Among foreign countries responding were Germany , Canada , Brazil and India .
Industrial promotion
An important operation in soliciting industrial locations involves what we term `` Missionary calls '' by one of this Division's industrial promotion specialists .
These consist of visits , without previous announcement , on top officials of manufacturing concerns located in highly industrialized areas .
More than 25 carefully selected cities were visited , including New York , Brooklyn , Long Island City , Newark , Elizabeth , Stamford , Waterbury , New Haven , Bridgeport , Boston , Cambridge , Worcester , and Waltham .
Out of a total of 603 calls , 452 contacts were established with top executive personnel .
We received 76 out-of-state visitors interested in investigating Rhode Island's industrial advantages , and Industrial Division personnel made 55 out-of-state follow-up visits .
Industrial conferences
During 1960 , two important conferences were organized by the Development Council's Industrial Division .
In June , the Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce -- in conjunction with local trade associations , chambers of commerce , and bank officials -- sponsored a World Trade Conference at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel .
Its purpose was to find ways of offsetting the United States' declining balance of trade for 1958 and 1959 .
Approximately 100 representatives of business attended this conclave and the R. I. Export Conference Committee later voted to continue the activity as an annual event .
On October 8th of last year , the Industrial Division sponsored the Governor's Conference on Industrial Development at the former Henry Barnard School .
A comprehensive program devoted to the various phases of the development effort attracted 143 interested individuals .
Morning sessions included addresses by Ward Miller , Jr. of the U. S. Dept. of Commerce .
Richard Preston , executive director of the New Hampshire State Planning and Development Commission , and Edwin C. Kepler of General Electric Company .
Workshop sessions in the afternoon featured development executives from Pennsylvania , Connecticut and Maine , and rounded out a rewarding program .
In connection with this conference , a 64-page supplement was published in the October 2nd edition of The Providence Sunday Journal .
Devoted to the improvement in business climate and increase in industrial construction in Rhode Island , it has proved a valuable mailing piece for this Division .
More than 2000 copies have been sent out to prospective clients .
Mailings and publications
Other special mailings by the Industrial Division included copies of speeches delivered at the Governor's Conference , letters and brochures to conferees at Med-Chemical Symposium at University of Rhode Island and letters and reprints of industrial advertisements to such organizations as Society of Industrial Realtors .
1184 copies of the R. I. Directory Of Manufacturers were distributed : 643 in-state and 541 out-of-state .
The Industrial Division published , in 1960 , a new , attractive industrial brochure , `` Rhode Island -- Right For Industry '' , and prepared copy for a new edition of the Directory Of Manufacturers ( to be printed shortly ) , and for a new space catalogue .
Additional promotional activities included organizing the dedication program for Operation Turnkey , the new automated post office , and a conference with representatives of Brown University , Providence College , and University of Rhode Island , and eight electronics concerns regarding the inauguration of a training program for electronics personnel .
Planning division
Stated in its simplest terms , the main job of the Planning Division is to plan for the future of the State of Rhode Island .
The activities of the Planning Division are defined in considerable detail in the enabling act of the Development Council , which assigns to the agency both broad responsibilities and specific duties in the field of planning .
Two years ago , the Institute of Public Administration issued an extremely comprehensive report entitled `` State-Local Relations In Metropolitan Rhode Island .
As the result of an exhaustive review of the recommendations contained in this report , plus an analysis of our own enabling act , the Planning Division developed a number of basic planning objectives which caused a reorientation of its work program .
These objectives are stated here because of their importance in understanding the current activities of the Planning Division .
( 1 )
First priority will be given to the preparation of a meaningful state guide plan to serve as a background for all other planning activities in the state .
( 2 )
Recognizing the truth of the statement by the Institute of Public Administration that `` Metropolian Planning ( in Rhode Island ) means , or should mean , state planning '' , the state guide plan will take into account the metropolitan nature of many of Rhode Island's problems .
( 3 )
It will continue to be an objective of this division to encourage the acceptance of planning as a proper and continuing responsibility of local government .
To this end , the community assistance program of the planning division will continue to be operated as a staff function to make available , on a shared cost basis , technical planning assistance to those communities in the state unable to maintain their own planning staff .
