`` They'll tell you what's cooking '' .
Even then , as you go into the house oppressed by the knowledge that something is cooking and that your house has passed under this unaccountable , official control , could you go on forgetting that you still had that ridiculous hat on your head and you were still carrying that childish horn in your hand ? ?
What I'm getting at is that we were fully prepared for Felix's being an odd one .
We'd seen his handiwork out in the back yard , and the little his tenants had told us of him did make him sound a little special .
We were not , however , prepared for anything like the apparition that confronted us as Felix came up the stairs .
He , of course , must have been equally unprepared for what confronted him , but , nonetheless , I did find his reaction startling .
If Felix was still wearing the hat and carrying the horn because he'd forgotten about them , he now remembered .
He came bounding up the stairs and joined the dance .
He adjusted the hat , lifted the horn to his lips as though it were a flute , and fell in alongside our fingerprint expert to cavort with him .
Our man stopped dead and glowered at Felix .
Felix threw his head back and laughed a laugh that shook the timbers of even that solidly built old house .
This was a bull of a man .
He was big-chested , big-shouldered and heavy-armed .
His face was ruddy and heavy and unlined , and when he laughed he showed his teeth , which were big and white and strong and unquestionably home-grown .
I don't remember ever seeing teeth that were quite so white and at the same time quite so emphatically not dentures .
His hair had receded most of the way to the back of his neck .
He had only a fringe of hair and he wore it cropped short .
It was almost as white as his teeth .
For a man of his mass he was curiously short .
He wasn't a dwarf but he was a bit of a comic figure .
A man with so big and so staggeringly developed a torso and such long and powerful arms is expected to stand taller than five feet five .
For Felix it was a bit of a stretch to make even that measurement .
The man was just this side of being a freak .
We waited till he had finished laughing , and that gave us a few moments for taking stock of him .
He was dressed in a manner Esquire might suggest for the outdoor man's country weekend .
Dark gray sports jacket , lighter gray slacks , pink flannel shirt , black silk necktie .
His eyes were clear .
He was freshly shaved , and if there had been any alcohol in him we could never have missed detecting some scent of it on the massive gusts of his laughter .
Not even a whiff .
Eventually he subsided .
`` Felix '' ? ?
Gibby said .
`` Me '' , he said merrily .
`` Me , the happy one '' .
`` That much Latin we remember '' , Gibby said dryly .
`` You always live up to your name , always like this , always making happy '' ? ?
`` I try '' , Felix said blithely .
`` The world is full of blokes who put their hearts into making the tragic scene .
I've never noticed that it improves things any '' .
`` Bully for you '' , Gibby said .
`` What's the rest of your name '' ? ?
`` No rest of it .
Felix is all there is '' .
`` All there ever was '' ? ?
`` The past I leave to historians '' , Felix intoned , demonstrating that he could be pompous as well as happy .
`` You live in the present '' ? ?
`` In the present '' , Felix proclaimed .
`` For the future .
Is there any other time in which a man can live '' ? ?
`` We '' , Gibby announced , `` are not philosophers .
We are Assistant District Attorneys .
This gentleman is a police officer .
He is a fingerprint specialist .
Could your future , your immediate future , be made to include taking us upstairs , giving us a bit of space in which our friend can work , and making available to him your finger tips '' ? ?
The happy one could never have looked happier .
This was more than joy .
It was ecstasy .
`` Those lovely whorls '' , he chortled .
`` So intricate , so beautiful .
Come right along .
I love fingerprints '' .
He was prancing along the hall , heading for the next flight of stairs .
Gibby called him back .
`` We're here because of what happened last night '' , he said .
`` Past , yes , but important .
Since it is important , for the record let's have the full name '' .
`` That important '' ? ?
Felix asked .
`` That important '' .
`` Grubb '' , Felix whispered .
`` Felix Grubb '' ? ?
Gibby asked , not bothering to whisper .
`` Shh '' , Felix implored .
`` I can't see what would make it necessary for you to know .
Nothing could make it necessary to proclaim it to the whole world '' .
Obligingly Gibby lowered his voice .
`` Felix Grubb '' ? ?
He repeated .
`` No .
Edmund , but not for years .
For years it's been just Felix .
First thing I did after my twenty-first birthday was go into court and have it officially changed , and this is something I don't tell everybody .
That was almost forty years ago '' .
Having volunteered that he was a man of about sixty , he bounded up the stairs and with each leap rendered the number less credible .
This was a broth of a boy , our Felix , and nothing was more obvious than the joy he took in demonstrating how agile he was and how full of juice and spirit .
We followed him up the stairs .
The cops would gather up Connor and the foursome on the third floor and bring us those of them who would voluntarily submit to fingerprinting .
You may think we didn't need Nancy and Jean , but you always get what you can when you can , and we had no guarantee that a fingerprint record on them couldn't be useful before we were through with this case .
Also , if we had excluded the ladies we would have to that extent let the whole world know at least that much of where we stood .
The killer , if in our present group , would certainly be interested in knowing that much , and even though with the fingerprint evidence what it was I could see no way he could use this bit of information to improve on his situation , there might always be some way .
If you can possibly avoid it , you don't hand out any extra chances .
Felix took us into his studio .
It was that oddly shaped space at the very top of the house , where ceiling heights had to accommodate themselves to the varying angles of roof slope .
At each angle of its pitch a big skylight had been fitted into the roof and all these skylights were fitted with systems of multiple screens and shades .
When Felix first opened the door on it , all these shades were tightly drawn and the whole studio was as dark as night .
He quickly fixed that , rolling back the shades on some of the skylights and adjusting screens on the others .
He flew about the place making these adjustments and it was obvious that what he was doing was the fruit of long experience .
None of his movements was tentative .
There was no process of trial and error .
Starting with the room completely blacked out , as it was when we came in , he unerringly fixed things so that the whole place was bathed in the maximum of light without at any point admitting even so much as a crack of glare .
Expecting something more-than-average wacky , I was surprised by what we found .
There was no display of either works in progress or of finished work .
Here and there on work table or pedestal stood a shape with a sheet or a tarpaulin draped over it .
These shapes might have been mad , but there was no telling .
They were all completely shrouded .
The equipment was solid and heavy and in good condition .
Everything was orderly and it seemed to be arranged for the workman's comfort , convenience and efficiency .
There were tools about but they were neatly kept .
There was no confusion and no litter .
Supplies of sheet metal were neatly stacked in bins .
Andy did not see the newspapers the next day .
Someone on his staff -- he suspected it was Ed Thornburg -- intercepted them and for this Andy was grateful .
He finally fell asleep around six in the morning with the aid of a sleeping capsule , a crutch he rarely used , and didn't awaken until early afternoon .
Memory flooded him the instant he opened his eyes and the sick feeling knotted his stomach .
Outside his window bloomed a beautiful summer day .
Presumably the same sun was shining upon little Drew also , and those who had kidnapped him .
But where ? ?
It was still a very big world , despite all the modern cant to the contrary .
Hub was sitting in a chair that blocked the hall door .
He was dozing , perhaps the only sleep he'd gotten .
He snapped to alertness at Andy's entrance .
`` Sorry , Mr. Paxton .
Nothing new .
Lot of people waiting to see you , though '' .
`` Reporters '' ? ?
`` Our own people .
Questions about the show tonight '' .
Hub picked up the telephone .
`` Shall I let them know you're awake '' ? ?
`` I suppose .
How's Lissa , do you know '' ? ?
Hub considered .
`` Some better .
She's got plenty of guts , Mr. Paxton .
You want me to call her '' ? ?
`` She expecting me to '' ? ?
Hub shook his head so Andy told him not to bother .
The only reason for contacting Lissa was to comfort or to be comforted .
He could not manage the former or expect the latter ; ;
they had nothing to give to each other .
The omission might look peculiar to outsiders , but Andy could not bring himself to go through the motions simply for the sake of appearances .
He had little time to himself , anyway .
As the afternoon sped toward evening , the suite saw a steady procession of Paxton aides pass in and out , each with his own special problem .
Thornburg arrived with the writers .
They had spent the morning revising the act , eliminating all the gay songs , patter and dancing with a view of the best public relations .
What remained lacked the original verve but it was at least dignified , as befitting the tragic circumstances .
Raymond Fox reported that the orchestra had hastily rehearsed `` Cradle Song '' in case it was needed .
Charlie Marble was back and forth on several occasions , first to confer with Andy on the advisability of cancelling the Las Vegas engagement -- they decided it was wise -- and later to announce that a prominent comedian , also an agency client , had agreed to fill the casino's open date .
And once Bake slipped in , pale and drawn , last night's liquor still on his breath with some of today's added to it .
He asked if there was anything he could do .
Andy invented a job to keep him busy , sending him ahead to El Dorado to supervise last minute arrangements .
But from Rocco Vecchio , they heard nothing .
At last it was time to depart .
Hub , nosing about , spotted reporters in the lobby , so Andy was hustled away quietly through the hotel's service entrance in a strange car which Hub had procured somewhere .
They succeeded in eluding the curious at the hotel , but there was no chance of avoiding them at the nightclub .
El Dorado was surrounded by a mob .
They overflowed the parking lot , making progress by automobile difficult .
Long before he reached the protection of the stage door , Andy was recognized .
Word of his arrival spread through the crowd like a brushfire .
They surged around him , fingers pointing , eyes prying .
It was not a hostile gathering but Andy sensed the difference from last night's hero-worshippers .
They had come not to admire but to observe .
`` It's worse inside '' , Thornburg informed Andy .
`` Skolman's jammed in every table he could find .
Under the heading of it's an ill wind , et cetera '' .
Backstage was tomblike by contrast .
Andy's co-workers kept their distance , awed by the tragedy .
But in his dressing room was a large bouquet and a card that read , `` We're with you all the way '' .
It was signed by everyone in the troupe .
Andy couldn't help but be touched .
He instructed Shirl Winter to compose a note of thanks to be posted on the call board .
Bake was waiting to report that Lou DuVol had been sobered up to the point where he could function efficiently .
Andy gathered that this had been no small accomplishment .
Bake himself looked better ; ;
any kind of job was better than brooding .
Andy told him , `` Bake , I wish you'd talk to Skolman , see if some kind of p. a. system can be rigged up outside .
It's just barely possible with this crowd that the kidnapper wasn't able to get a table .
I wouldn't want him to miss the message '' .
`` I'll try .
Skolman isn't going to like it much , though , giving away what he should be selling '' .
Skolman wasn't the only one who didn't care for Andy's scheme .
A short time later , Lieutenant Bonner stomped into the dressing room .
`` I got a bone to pick with you , Mr. Paxton .
It's those damn loudspeakers '' .
Andy rolled up the revised script he had been studying .
`` What about them '' ? ?
`` They're going to louse me up good .
My men have been here all afternoon , setting up for this thing '' .
Bonner explained that , with the nightclub's cooperation , the police had occupied El Dorado like a battlefield .
Motion picture cameras had been installed to film the audience , the reservation list was being checked out name by name , and a special detail was already at work in the parking lot scrutinizing automobiles for a possible lead .
However , it was virtually impossible to screen the mob outside , even if Bonner had manpower available for the purpose .
`` I want you to have the speakers taken out '' .
Andy sighed .
`` Seems like we're never going to see eye to eye , Lieutenant .
Didn't they tell you what I wanted the p. a. system for '' ? ?
`` Sure , I know .
But it's such a long shot '' --
`` No longer than yours .
What do you expect to get tonight , anyway ? ?
You think somebody is going to stand up in the audience and make guilty faces ? ?
Or have a sign on his car that says , ' Here Comes the Paxton Kidnapper ' '' ? ?
Andy crumbled the script in his fist .
`` I can't stop you from doing what you think is right .
But don't try to stop me , either '' .
`` Someday '' , Bonner said , `` you're going to ask us for help .
I can hardly wait '' .
`` What you don't understand is that I'm asking for it now '' .
But Bonner departed , still full of ill will .
He had gotten stuck with a job too big for his imagination ; ;
he had to cling to routine , tested procedures .
To act otherwise would be to admit his helplessness .
But , admit or not , Bonner was helpless .
The crime showed too much planning , the kidnappers appeared too proficient to be caught by a checklist .
Andy's performance was scheduled for eleven o'clock .
He stalled for a half-hour longer , hoping to hear something from Vecchio about the ransom money .
Bake and Shirl Winter , on separate telephones , could not reach him at any conceivable location in Los Angeles , nor could they secure any clear-cut information regarding his efforts .
Bake cursed .
`` The sweaty bastard's probably halfway to Peru with our money by now '' .
When no one smiled , he felt constrained to add , `` Just kidding , natch '' .
Thornburg popped in to advise , `` Andy , Skolman's sending up smoke signals .
You about ready '' ? ?
`` What's he complaining about '' ? ?
Bake asked .
`` They're drinking , aren't they '' ? ?
`` No .
We got a bunch of sippers out there tonight .
I guess nobody wants to pass out and miss anything '' .
Thornburg added in a lower voice but Andy overheard , `` They act more like a jury than an audience '' .
Andy said , `` Well , I guess we can't wait any longer .
Hub , you stick by the stage door .
If Rock shows up during the number -- or you hear anything -- give me the signal '' .
Shirl Winter said , `` I'll stay on the phone , Mr. Paxton .
There's a couple of call-backs I can work on '' .
`` You're a sweetheart -- but leave one line open .
He may try to phone us '' .
Andy passed into the corridor , their `` good lucks '' ! !
Following him .
It was what they said before every performance but tonight it sounded different , as if he really needed it .
They were right .
The act , cut to shreds and hastily patched together during the afternoon , had not been rehearsed sufficiently by anyone .
The result had nothing of the polish , pace or cohesion of the previous night .
Here's where luck would normally step in .
But this was no ordinary show and Andy knew it .
Whether he sang well or badly had nothing to do with it .
The audience had come not to be entertained but to judge .
Twenty-four hours had changed him from a performer to a freak .
Within this framework , what followed was strained , even macabre .
Eliminating the patter and the upbeat numbers left little but blues and other songs of equal melancholy .
The effect was as depressing as a gravestone , the applause irresolute and short-lived .
Yet Andy plowed ahead , mouthing the inconsequential words as if they possessed real meaning , and gradually his listeners warmed to him .
Their clapping grew more fervent ; ;
the evening was still not beyond salvaging , not as a show but for him as a person .
The worst was yet to come .
As Andy reached the finale of his act , a subdued commotion backstage drew his attention to the wings .
Rocco Vecchio -- a perspiring , haggard Vecchio -- was standing there , flanked by two men in the uniforms of armored transport guards .
Vecchio was nodding and pointing at the large suitcase he held .
Andy felt his heart thud heavily with relief .
He waved at Fox to cut off the finale introduction .
The music died away discordantly .
He drew a deep breath .
`` Ladies and gentlemen , in place of my regular closing number tonight , I'd like to sing something of a different nature for you .
Ray , if you please -- the ' Cradle Song ' '' .
He sensed rather than heard the gasp that swept across the audience .
Nor could he blame them .
This particular song at this particular time could only be interpreted as the ultimate in bad taste , callous exploitation beyond the bounds of decency .
Having no choice , he plunged into it , anyway , holding onto the microphone for support .
`` Lullaby and goodnight .
''
His voice shook .
For the first time in his life he forgot the lyrics midway through and had to cover up by humming the rest .
He wondered if the audience would let him finish .
They did ; ;
though contemptuous , they were still polite .
But when he was finally through , their scorn was made apparent .
Someone clapped tentatively then quickly stopped .
Otherwise , the silence was complete .
As the lights came up , Andy could see that a number of patrons were already on their way toward the exit .
He stumbled off-stage .
`` My God '' , he muttered .
`` My God '' .
Hub was there to support him .
`` It's okay , Mr. Paxton .
The money's here , all of it '' .
At this moment , all he could think of was what he'd been forced to undergo .
`` Did you hear them ? ?
Do you know what they think of me '' ? ?
`` Bunch of damn jerks '' , Hub growled .
`` Who needs them '' ? ?
Thornburg patted his arm .
`` Sure , Andy , it'll be all right .
Nothing broken that can't be mended '' .
The words were hollow .
Thornburg knew , better than any of them , that a public image was as fragile as Humpty Dumpty .
All the king's horses and all the king's men
Vecchio shouldered in .
`` I got it , Andy .
God knows how , but I got it .
You'll never believe the places I've been today .
I practically had to sign your life away , you'll probably fire me for some of the deals I had to go for , but '' --
Andy nodded dully .
`` It doesn't matter , Rock .
We've done our part '' .
He clutched that knowledge to him as he returned to his dressing room .
The usual congratulatory crowd was conspicuously absent ; ;
the place had the air of a morgue .
Andy had no desire to linger himself but Hub reported that the mob outside was still large despite the efforts of the police to disperse them .
His son watched until he got as far as the hall , almost out of sight , then hurried after .
`` Dad .
Dad , wait '' .
He caught up with the old man in the living room .
Old man Arthur had put down the suitcase to open the front door .
`` Just this one favor , Dad .
Just don't tell Ferguson that crazy opinion of yours '' .
`` Why not '' ? ?
The old man gave the room a stare in leaving ; ;
under the scraggly brows the pale old eyes burned with a bitter memory .
`` It's the truth '' .
`` The Bartlett girl was killed by Mr. Dronk's son .
Rossi and Ferguson have been across the street , talking to the kid .
They've found some sort of new evidence , a bundle of clothes or something , and it must link the kid even stronger to the crime .
Why won't you accept facts ? ?
The two kids were together a lot , they were having some kind of teen-age affair -- God knows how far that had gone -- and the kid's crippled .
He limps , and the man who hit you and took the cane , he limped .
My God , how much more do you want '' ? ?
His father looked him over closely .
`` You sound like an old woman .
You should have gone to work today , 'stead of sneaking around spying on the Dronk house '' .
`` Now , see here '' --
`` The trouble with you '' , old man Arthur began , and then checked himself .
Young Mrs. Arthur had opened the oven and there was a drifting odor of hot biscuits .
The old man opened the door and stepped out into the sunlight .
`` Isn't enough time to go into it '' , he finished , and slammed the door in his son's face .
Mrs. Holden turned from the window draperies .
`` They found something else up there '' , she said half-aloud to the empty room .
`` They took it away , overalls or something '' .
She walked restlessly across the room , then back to the windows .
`` Now they've gone , they didn't come back , and they didn't arrest that Dronk boy '' .
She stood frowning and chewing her lip .
She was wearing a brown cotton dress , cut across the hips in a way that was supposed to make her look slimmer , a yoke set into the skirt and flaring pleats below .
She smoothed the skirt , sat down , then stood up and went back to the windows .
`` Why on earth did I send him off to work ? ?
There was excuse enough to keep him home that young Mr. Arthur's still over there '' .
With sudden energy , she went to the phone and rang Holden's office and asked for him .
`` I think you had better come home '' .
`` Mae , we're so busy .
Mr. Crosson's been on everybody's neck , an order he expected didn't come through and he's '' --
`` I don't care .
I want you here .
I'm all alone and certain things are going on that look very ominous .
I need someone to go out and find out what's happening '' .
`` But I couldn't do that , even if I were home '' ! !
His voice grew high and trembling .
`` I can't be underfoot every time those cops turn around ! !
They'll they'll think I did something '' .
He couldn't see the grin that split her mouth ; ;
the teeth that shone into the phone were like a shark's .
`` You'll just have to risk it .
You can't wander along in the dark , can you ? ?
I'd think that you even more than I would be wondering what they're up to .
They found some clothes '' , she tossed in .
`` What '' ? ?
Deliberately , she ignored the yelp .
`` Also , that Mr. Ferguson was here .
I guess he wants to ask you some questions .
I stalled him off .
He doesn't expect you until five '' .
`` Then I'd better wait until five '' .
`` No-o-o .
Come home right away '' .
She slapped the receiver into its holder and stepped away .
Her eyes were bright with anticipation .
In his office , Mr. Holden replaced the phone slowly .
He rose from his chair .
He had to cough then ; ;
he went to the window and choked there with the fresh breeze on his face .
He got his hat out of the closet .
For a moment he thought of going into Crosson's office to explain that he had to leave , but there was now such a pain in his chest , such a pounding in his head , that he decided to let it go .
He passed the receptionist in the outer office , muttering , `` I've got to go out for a little while '' .
Let her call Crosson if she wanted to , let Crosson raise the roof or even can him , he didn't care .
He got into the car .
Putting the key into the switch , pressing the accelerator with his foot , putting the car into reverse , seemed vast endeavors almost beyond the ability of his shaking body .
Once out in the street , the traffic was a gadfly maze in which he wandered stricken .
When he turned into the highway that led to the outskirts of the city and then rose toward home , he had to pull over to the curb and wait for a few minutes , sucking in air and squinting and blinking his eyes to clear them of tears .
What on earth was in Mae's mind , that she wanted him up there spying on what the cops were doing ? ?
What did she think he could do ? ?
He tried to ignore what his own common sense told him , but it wasn't possible ; ;
her motives were too blatant .
She wanted him to get into trouble .
She wanted the police to notice him , suspect him .
She was going to keep on scheming , poking , prodding , suggesting , and dictating until the cops got up enough interest in him to go back to their old neighborhood and ask questions .
And he knew in that moment , with a cold sinking of despair , a dying of old hopes , that Mae had spread some kind of word there among the neighbors .
Nothing bald , open ; ;
but enough .
They'd have some suspicions to repeat to the police .
Though his inner thoughts cringed at it , he forced himself to think back , recreating the scene in which Mae claimed to have caught him molesting the child .
It hadn't amounted to anything .
There had been nothing evil or dirty in his intentions .
A second scene flashed before his mind , the interior of the garage at the new house and the young Bartlett girl turning startled to meet him , the dim dark and the sudden confusion and fear and then the brightness as Mae had clicked on the light .
Suppose the cops somehow got hold of that ? ?
Well , it hadn't been what it seemed , he'd had no idea the girl was in there .
He hadn't touched her .
And when he came to examine the scene , there was a certain staginess to it , it had the smell of planning , and a swift suspicion darted into his mind .
Too monstrous , of course .
Mae wouldn't have plotted a thing like that .
It was just that little accidents played into her hands .
Like this murder .
He leaned on the wheel , clutching it , staring into the sunlight , and tried to bring order into his thoughts .
He felt light-headed and sick .
There was no use wandering off into a territory of utter nightmare .
Mae was his wife .
She was married to him for better or for worse .
She wouldn't be wilfully planning his destruction .
But she was .
She was .
Even as the conviction of truth roared through him , shattering his last hope of safety , he was reaching to release the hand brake , to head up the road for home , doing her bidding .
He drove , and the road wobbled , familiar scenes crept past on either side .
He came to a stretch of old orange groves , the trees dead , some of them uprooted , and then there was an outlying shopping area , and tract houses .
He had the feeling that he should abandon the car and run off somewhere to hide .
But he couldn't imagine where .
There was really no place to go , finally , except home to Mae .
At the gate he slowed , looking around .
Cooper was beside his car , on the curb at the right , just standing there morosely ; ;
he didn't even look up .
Behind him on the steps of the little office sat old man Arthur ; ;
he was straight , something angry in his attitude , as if he might be waiting to report something .
Holden stepped on the gas .
A new idea drifted in from nowhere .
He could go to the police .
He could tell them his fears of being involved , he could explain what had happened in the old neighborhood and how Mae had misunderstood and how she had held it over him -- the scene was complete in his mind at the moment , even to his own jerkings and snivelings , and Ferguson's silent patience .
He could throw himself on the mercy of the Police Department .
It wasn't what Mae would want him to do , though .
He was sure of this .
Once he had abandoned himself to the very worst , once he had quieted all the dragons of worry and suspense , there wouldn't be very much for Mae to do .
At that moment , Holden almost slammed on the brakes to go back to Cooper and ask if Ferguson was about .
It would be such a relief .
What was that old sign , supposed to be painted over a door somewhere , Abandon hope , all ye who enter here ? ?
Why , Holden said to himself , surprised at his own sudden insight , I'll bet some of those people who enter are just as happy as can be .
They've worried , they've lain awake nights , they've shook at the slightest footstep , they've pictured their own destruction , and now it's all over and they can give up .
Sure , they're giving up hope .
Hand in hand with hope went things like terror and apprehension .
Good-bye .
Holden waved a hand at the empty street .
Glad to see you go .
He drove into the paved space before the garage and got out , slamming the car door .
He looked up and down the street .
If Ferguson's car had been in sight , Holden would have walked directly to it .
He went to the front door and opened it and looked in .
Mae entered the room from the hallway to the kitchen .
She had a cup of something steaming , coffee perhaps , in one hand , a fresh piece of toast in the other .
She stood there , watching Holden come in , and she put the piece of toast in her mouth and bit off one corner with a huge chomp of her white teeth .
`` Mae '' --
`` I've been thinking '' , she said , swallowing the toast .
`` Didn't you have an old pair of painting overalls in the garage ? ?
You used them that time you painted the porch at our other house .
And then you wiped up some grease '' .
She had caught him off guard , no preparation , nothing certain but that ahead lay some kind of disaster .
`` No .
Wait a minute .
What do you '' --
`` I've been looking for them , and they're gone .
I'm sure they were in the garage up until a couple of days ago .
Or even yesterday .
You used to paint in them , and then you just took them for rags .
The police have them now '' .
`` I don't remember any overalls at all '' .
`` They were all faded .
Worn through at the knees '' .
She stood sipping and chewing and watching .
`` Green paint , wasn't it ? ?
Well , I'm not sure of the color .
But you had them '' .
`` Mae , sit down .
Put down the cup of coffee .
Tell me what this is all about '' .
She shook her head .
She took another bite of toast .
Holden noticed almost absently how she chewed , how the whole side of her cheek moved , a slab of fat that extended down into her neck .
`` My goodness , you ought to remember if I do .
You're going to have to go to the police and explain what happened .
Tell them the truth or something before they come here '' .
A seeping coldness entered Holden's being ; ;
his nerves seemed frost-bitten down to the tips of his tingling fingers and his spine felt stiff and glass-like , liable to break like an icicle at any moment .
`` I've never owned any painting overalls .
A man with a sketch pad in hand sat with a large pink woman in a small office at the end of a long , dim corridor and made pencil lines on paper and said , `` Is this more like it , Mrs. MacReady ? ?
Or are the eyebrows more like this '' ? ?
When he had finished with that , he would go to another part of the hotel and say much the same things to someone else , most probably a busboy .
`` Begin to look like him now , would you say ? ?
Different about the mouth , huh ? ?
More like this , maybe '' ? ?
Men blew dust on objects in a room on the seventeenth floor of the Hotel Dumont and blew it off again , and did the same in a tiny , almost airless room in a tenement in the West Forties .
And men also used vacuum cleaners in both rooms , sucking dust up once more .
Men from the Third Detective District , Eighteenth Precinct , had the longest , the most tedious , job .
At the Hotel Dumont there had , at the time in issue , been twenty-three overnighters , counting couples as singular .
These included , as one , Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Payne , who had checked in a little after noon the day before , and had not checked out together .
But Gardner Willings was not included ; ;
he had been at the Dumont for almost a week .
There was , of course , no special reason to believe that the man or woman they sought had stayed only overnight at the hotel .
The twenty-three ( or twenty-two with the Paynes themselves omitted ) provided merely a place to start , and their identification was the barest of starts .
With names and addresses listed , verification came next .
It would take time ; ;
it would , almost inevitably , trouble some water .
( `` I certainly was not at the Dumont last night and my husband couldn't have been .
He's in Boston .
Of course he's in '' -- )
The Hotel King Arthur across the street provided almost twice as many problems .
The King Arthur offered respectable and convenient lodgings to people from the suburbs who wanted to see a show and didn't want -- heaven knew didn't want ! !
-- to lunge anxiously through crowded streets to railroad stations and , at odd hours of night , drive from smaller stations to distant homes , probably through rain or , in November , something worse .
The King Arthur was less expensive than the Dumont .
The King Arthur had fifty-four overnighters , again counting rooms rather than people .
Check the overnighters out .
Failing to find what was wanted , as was most likely , check out other guests , with special -- but not exclusive -- attention to those with rooms on the street .
( Anyone active enough can reach a roof , wherever his room may be .
) And know , while all this went on , that there was no real reason to suppose that the murderer had been a guest in either hotel .
It was not even certain the shot had been fired from either hotel .
There were other roofs , less convenient but not impossible .
It is dull business , detecting , and hard on feet .
There was also the one salient question to ask , and ask widely : Did you notice anything out of the way ? ?
Like , for example , a man carrying a twenty-two rifle , probably with a telescopic sight attached ? ?
There was , of course , no hope it really would be that simple .
The sniper , whether psychopathic marksman or murderer by intent , would hardly have walked to his vantage point with rifle over shoulder , whistling a marching tune .
Anybody carrying anything that might hide a rifle ? ?
Long thin suitcase ? ?
Or long fat suitcase , for that matter ? ?
Shrugs met that , from room clerks , from bellhops .
Who measures ? ?
But nothing , it appeared , long enough to attract attention .
Cases , say , for musical instruments ? ?
None noted at the Dumont .
Several at the King Arthur .
A combo was staying there .
And had been for a week .
Anything else ? ?
Anything at all ? ?
Shrugs met that .
( Detective Pearson , Eighteenth Precinct , thought for a time he might be on to something .
A refuse bin at the Dumont turned up a florist's box -- a very long box for very long-stemmed flowers .
Traces of oil on green tissue ? ?
The lab to check .
The lab : sorry .
No oil .
)
Anything at all strange ? ?
Well , a man had tried , at the King Arthur , to register with an ocelot .
At the Dumont , a guest had come in a collapsible wheel chair .
At the King Arthur one guest had had his head heavily bandaged , and another had a bandaged foot and had walked with crutches .
There had also been a man who must have had St. Vitus or something , because he kept jerking his head .
As reports dribbled in , William Weigand tossed them into the centrifuge which had become his head .
Mullins came in .
There was no sign of Mrs. Lauren Payne at her house on Nod Road , Ridgefield , Connecticut .
The house was modern , large , on five acres .
Must have cost plenty .
The State cops would check from time to time ; ;
pass word when there was word to pass .
Weigand tossed this news into the centrifuge .
Sort things out , damn it .
Sort out the next move .
Try to forget motive for the moment .
Consider opportunity .
Only those actually with Payne when he was shot , or who had left the party within not more than five minutes ( make five arbitrary ) positively had none .
The Norths ; ;
Hathaway , Jerry's publicity director ; ;
Livingston Birdwood , producer of Uprising .
They had been with Payne when he was shot , could not therefore have shot him from above .
Take Gardner Willings .
He had left after the scuffle ; ;
had been seen to leave .
He would have had ample time to go into a blind somewhere and wait his prey .
Consider him seriously , therefore ? ?
Intangibles entered , then -- hunches which felt like facts .
Willings would ambush , certainly ; ;
Willings undoubtedly had .
Willings was , presumably , a better than average shot .
But -- hunch , now -- Willings would not ambush anything which went on two legs instead of four .
Because , if for no other reason , Willings would never for a moment suppose he was not bigger , tougher , than anything else that went on two legs .
Ambushes are laid by those who doubt themselves , as any man may against a tiger .
Faith Constable had had to `` go on '' from the party and had , presumably , gone on .
To be checked out further .
Forget motive ? ?
No , motive is a part of fact .
Nobody in his right mind punishes a quarter-century-old dereliction .
Grudges simply do not keep that well in a sane mind .
Faith Constable had accomplished much in a quarter of a century .
Jeopardize it now to correct so old a wrong ? ?
Bill shook his head .
Also , he thought , I doubt if she could hit the side of a barn with a shotgun .
Lauren herself ? ?
She had left the party early , pleading a headache .
No lack of opportunity , presuming she had a gun .
She might , conceivably , have brought one in in a large-enough suitcase .
( Check on the Payne luggage .
) She might now have taken it away again .
Motive -- her husband wandering ? ?
Bitter , unreasoning jealousy ? ?
Heaven knew it happened and hell knew it too .
But -- it happened , almost always , among the primitive and , usually , among the very young .
( Call it mentally young ; ;
call it retarded .
) There was nothing to indicate that Lauren Payne was primitive .
She did not move in primitive circles .
She was young , but not that young .
It occurred to Bill Weigand that he was , on a hunch basis , eliminating a good many .
He reminded himself that all eliminations were tentative .
He also reminded himself that he had an unusual number of possibilities .
The Masons , mother or son , or mother and son ? ?
Opportunity was obvious .
Motive .
Here , too , the cause to hate lay well back in the years .
But bitterness had more cause to remain , even increasingly to corrode .
With the boy , particularly .
The boy had , apparently -- if Mrs. MacReady was right in what she had told Mullins -- only in recent months been forced to give up college , to work as a busboy .
Seeing the man he blamed for this made much of -- youth and bitterness and --
Bill picked up the telephone ; ;
got Mullins .
`` Send out a pickup on Mrs. Mason and the boy when you've got enough to go on '' , Bill said .
`` Right '' ? ?
Mullins would do .
A man named Lars Simon , playwright-director , had expressed a wish that Anthony Payne drop dead .
He would say , of course , that he had not really had any such wish ; ;
that what he had said was no more than one of those things one does say , lightly , meaning nothing .
Which probably would turn out to be true ; ;
which he obviously had to be given the opportunity to say .
A man named Blaine Smythe , with `` y '' and `` e '' but pronounced without them , had been fired at Payne's insistence .
He was also , if Pam North was right , a closer acquaintance of Lauren Payne's than she , now , was inclined to admit .
He might deny the latter ; ;
would certainly deny any connection between the two things , or any connection of either with murder .
He would have to be given the opportunity .
Mullins ? ?
It was evident that Mullins was the man to go .
It was evident that a captain should remain at his desk , directing with a firm hand and keeping a firm seat .
Bill Weigand was good and tired of the wall opposite , and the crack in the plaster .
Let Mullins keep the firm seat ; ;
let Stein .
When Siamese cats are intertwined it is difficult to tell where one leaves off and another begins .
Stilts and Shadow , on Pam's bed , appeared to be one cat -- rather large , as Siamese cats go , and , to be sure , having two heads and two tails .
On the other hand , they , or it , seemed to have no legs whatever .
Pamela North said , `` Hi '' , to her cats , and added that proper cats met their humans at the door .
Of four dark brown ears , one twitched slightly at this .
`` All right '' , Pam said .
`` I know it isn't dinnertime '' .
But at this the one too-large cat suddenly became two cats , stretching .
Shadow , the more talkative , began at once to talk , her voice piteous .
Stilts , a more direct cat , leaped from the bed and trotted briskly toward the kitchen .
Shadow looked surprised , wailed , and trotted after her .
The hell it isn't dinnertime , two waving tails told Pam North .
It was not , whatever tale was told by tails .
Martha presumably would cope .
She might be firm .
It was most unlikely that she would be firm .
They want to be fat cats , Pam thought , and lighted a cigarette and leaned back on a chaise and considered pulling her thoughts together .
After a time , it occurred to her that her thoughts were not worth the trouble .
A vague feeling that Anthony Payne had had it coming was hardly a thought and was , in any event , reprehensible .
Had Faith Constable's explanation of her confidence , so uninvited , been a little thin ? ?
That was more like a thought , but not a great deal more .
Had that tall dark boy , carrying trays too heavy for him , found what he might have considered adulation of a man he probably hated more than he could bear ? ?
And possessed himself -- how ? ?
-- of a rifle and killed ? ?
Pam found she had no answers ; ;
had only a hope .
The poor kid -- the poor , frail kid .
Some people have luck and some have no luck and that , whatever people who prefer order say , is the size of it .
The poor , unlucky --
The telephone rang .
Pam realized , to her surprise , that she had been almost dozing .
At four o'clock in the afternoon .
Two martinis for lunch -- that was the trouble .
I ought to remember .
Don't pretend .
You do remember .
You just -- `` Hello ? ?
Yes , this is she ? ?
What '' ? ?
The voice had music in it .
Even with words coming too fast , they came on the music of the voice .
`` I said I would '' , Pam said .
`` They won't talk about who gave the information .
Not unless they have to .
They don't , Mrs. Constable .
Not unless they have '' --
She was interrupted .
`` Call this a cry for help '' , Faith Constable said .
`` Through a door conveniently unlocked '' , Madden supplemented .
`` That damn door '' , said the police chief .
`` A gift horse to be viewed with suspicion '' .
Madden's dark face wore a meditative look .
`` If there was collusion between an outside murderer and a member of the household it would be an elementary precaution to check on the door later .
And it makes a very poor red herring for an inside job .
Much better to break a cellar window '' .
`` Don't forget , there was the hope it would pass for a natural death '' , Pauling reminded him .
`` Well , with a house as big as that there must be at least one cellar window that wouldn't be noticed right away unless there was a police investigation '' .
`` Yeah .
And a pane of glass isn't hard to '' --
The telephone interrupted him .
He scooped up the receiver and said , `` Police chief '' , into the mouthpiece , and then , `` Oh yes , Mr. Benson .
I was hoping I'd hear from you today '' .
With his free hand he pulled a pad and pencil toward him and began to make notes as he listened , saying , `` Uh-huh '' and `` I see '' at intervals .
At last he said , `` Well , thank you for calling , Mr. Benson .
Although there was no doubt in my mind and we've been handling it as one I'm glad to have it made official '' .
He hung up .
`` Coroner '' , he said to Madden .
`` He's just heard from the pathologist who says Mrs. Meeker apparently died from suffocation '' .
Pauling looked at his notes .
`` Many minute hemorrhages in the lungs ; ;
particles of lint and thread in the mouth and nostrils .
Scrapings from the bed linen identical with the lint and thread found in the nasal and oral cavities .
No other cause of death apparent .
Trachea clear of mucus and foreign objects .
Brain examined for thrombosis , clot or hemorrhage .
No signs of these , no gross hemorrhage of lungs , heart , brain or stomach '' .
He paused .
`` That's about it .
Oh , the time of death .
The duration of the digestive process varies , the pathologist says , but the empty stomach and the findings in the upper gastrointestinal tract indicate that Mrs. Meeker died several hours after her seven-o'clock dinner .
Probably around midnight , give or take an hour either way '' .
Pauling paused again .
`` So there it is '' , he said .
`` Not your problem , of course , unless Johnston and the murderer are one and the same '' .
They discussed this possibility .
However likely it was , Pauling said , he couldn't limit himself to it .
He had to look for other prospects , other motives until more conclusive evidence pointing to Johnston came to light .
Madden , with his investigation centered on the fraud , said that tomorrow he would go to the Bronx bank through which Mrs. Meeker's checks to Johnston had cleared .
Arthur Williams had to be located , they agreed .
He might have been in collusion with Johnston on the fraud ; ;
he might be Mrs. Meeker's murderer or have played some part in her death .
This was Madden's suggestion ; ;
the police chief shook his head over it .
If Arthur Williams was involved in the fraud or the murder , then he too had another identity .
No one the Medfield police had questioned professed to know any more about him than about Johnston .
Scholarship applicant ? ?
Pauling looked doubtful .
Madden explained that he was thinking of an application sent directly to Mrs. Meeker .
Then he asked to use the phone and called Brian Thayer , who said that he was just leaving to keep a lunch date but would be home by two o'clock .
Madden said that he would see him at two and made another call , this one to Mrs. Meeker's lawyers .
Mr. Hohlbein was out for the day , but Mr. Garth would be free at one-thirty .
The secretary's tone indicated that an appointment at such short notice was a concession for which Madden should be duly grateful .
He inferred that Hohlbein and Garth were high-priced lawyers .
He had lunch with Pauling .
Promptly at one-thirty he entered Hohlbein and Garth's elegant suite of offices in Medfield's newest professional building .
He disliked Garth on sight , conservative clothes and haircut , smile a shade too earnestly boyish for a man who must be well into his thirties , handclasp too consciously quick and firm .
Youngish man on the make , Madden labeled him , and was ready to guess that in a correct , not too pushing fashion , the junior partner of the firm had political ambitions ; ;
that Mrs. Garth would be impeccably suitable as the wife of a rising young lawyer ; ;
that there were three children , two boys and a girl ; ;
that she was active in the Woman's Club and he in Lions , Rotary , and Jaycee ; ;
and finally , that neither of them had harbored an unorthodox opinion since their wedding day .
Madden knew that he could be completely wrong about all this , but also knew that he would go right on disliking Garth .
Garth was prepared to be helpful in what he referred to with fastidious distaste as this unfortunate Johnston affair , which would not , he said more than once , have ever come about if Mrs. Meeker had only seen fit to consult Mr. Hohlbein or him about it .
Madden regretted not being able to find fault with so true a statement .
He asked to see a copy of Mrs. Meeker's will .
Garth brought one out .
The date , October 8 , 1957 , immediately caught the inspector's eye .
`` Fairly recent '' , he remarked .
`` Was she in the habit of making new wills '' ? ?
`` Oh no .
She had reason to change the one she made right after Mr. Meeker's death .
Her estate had grown considerably .
She wanted to make a more equitable distribution of it among the groups that would benefit the most ; ;
particularly the scholarship fund .
At the time the will was drawn Mr. Hohlbein mentioned to me how mentally alert she seemed for her age , knowing just what changes she wanted made and so forth '' .
Garth hesitated .
`` Mr. Hohlbein and I have noticed some lapses since , though .
Most of them this past year , I'd say .
Even two or three years ago I doubt that she'd have become involved in this unfortunate Johnston affair .
She'd have consulted us , you see .
She always did before , and showed the utmost confidence in whatever we advised '' .
The inspector nodded , doubting this .
Mrs. Meeker hadn't struck him as ready to seek anyone's advice , least of all Garth's .
With her sharp tongue she'd have cut his pompousness to ribbons .
It would have been Hohlbein who handled her affairs .
Madden settled back to read the will .
He skimmed over the millions that went to Meeker Park , Medfield Hospital , the civic center , the Public Health Nursing Association , the library , and so on , pausing when he came to the scholarship fund .
Two millions were added to what had been set aside for it in Mrs. Meeker's lifetime , and the proviso made that as long as Brian Thayer continued to discharge his duties as administrator of the fund to the satisfaction of the board of trustees ( hereinafter appointed by the bank administering the estate ) he was to be retained in his present capacity at a salary commensurate with the increased responsibilities enlargement of the fund would entail .
A splendid vote of confidence in Thayer , Madden reflected .
Tenure , too .
Very nice for him .
He went on to personal bequests , a list of names largely unknown to him .
Twenty-five thousand to each of the great-nieces in Oregon ( not much to blood relatives out of millions ) ten thousand to this friend and that , five thousand to another ; ;
to Brian Thayer , the sum of ten thousand dollars ; ;
to the Pecks , ten thousand each ; ;
to Joan Sheldon the conditional bequest of ten thousand to be paid to her in the event that she was still in Mrs. Meeker's employ at the time of the latter's death .
( No additional five thousand for each year after Joan's twenty-first birthday ; ;
Mrs. Meeker hadn't got around to taking care of that .
)
Too bad , Madden thought .
Joan Sheldon had earned the larger bequest .
Mr. Hohlbein was left twenty thousand , Garth ten .
There were no other names Madden recognized .
Arthur Williams's might well have been included , he felt .
Mrs. Meeker had spent a small fortune on a search for him but had made no provision for him in her will if he should be found after her death , and had never mentioned his name to her lawyers .
Madden took up this point with Garth , who shrugged it off .
`` Old people have their idiosyncrasies '' .
`` This one came a bit high at thirty thousand or more .
`` Well , she had a number of them where money was concerned '' , Garth said .
`` Sometimes we'd have trouble persuading her to make tax-exempt charitable contributions , and I've known her to quarrel with a plumber over a bill for fixing a faucet ; ;
the next moment she'd put another half million into the scholarship fund or thirty thousand into something as impractical as this unfortunate Johnston affair .
There was no telling how she'd react to spending money '' .
Madden inquired next about the audit of the scholarship fund .
There was an annual audit , Garth informed him .
No discrepancies or shortages had ever been found .
Brian Thayer was a thoroughly honest and competent administrator .
His salary had reached the ten thousand mark .
His expenses ran another four or five thousand .
The lawyer didn't know him very well although he saw him occasionally at some dinner party -- Thayer , like himself , Madden reflected , was the extra man so prized by hostesses -- and found him easy enough to talk to .
But he didn't play golf , didn't seem to belong to any local clubs -- his work took him away a lot , of course -- which probably accounted for his tendency to keep to himself .
Garth's glance began to flicker to his watch .
He said that he had already told the police chief that he didn't know what insurance man had recommended Johnston to Mrs. Meeker .
He would offer no theory to account for her murder .
The whole thing , his manner conveyed , was so far outside the normal routine of Hohlbein and Garth that it practically demanded being swept under the rug .
No doubt Mrs. Meeker had snubbed him many a time and he felt no grief over her passing .
Even so , Madden's dislike of the suave , correct lawyer deepened .
It would be all right with him , he decided , if his investigation of the fraud , with its probable by-product of murder , led to Garth's door .
Motive ? ?
Ten-thousand-dollar bequest .
At first glance , not much of a motive for a man of his standing ; ;
but for all his air of affluence , who could tell what his private financial picture was ? ?
The inspector knew as he left that this was wishful thinking .
Nevertheless , he made a mental note to look into Garth's financial background .
Brian Thayer had a downtown address .
He lived in an apartment house not over three or four years old , a reclaimed island of landscaped brick and glass on the fringe of the business district .
He occupied a two-bedroom apartment on the fourth floor , using the second bedroom as his office .
Airy and bright , the apartment was furnished with good modern furniture , rugs , and draperies .
Done by a professional decorator , Madden thought , and somehow as impersonal , as unremarkable as its occupant .
In Dunston the rent would run close to two hundred a month ; ;
in Medfield , perhaps twenty-five less , not all of it paid by Thayer , who could charge off one room on his expense account .
He took Madden into the room he used as an office .
It contained a desk , files , a typewriter on a stand , and two big leather armchairs .
A newspaper open at stock-market reports lay on one of them .
Thayer folded it up and offered a drink .
The inspector declined .
To begin the interview , he asked if Thayer , with more time to think it over , could add to what he had said the other day about Johnston .
Thayer shook his head .
`` It's all I think about , too .
That and her death .
It's still unbelievable that it was murder .
For all her domineering ways , I can't conceive of her having had a deadly enemy '' .
`` Dammit , Phil , are you trying to wreck my career ? ?
Because that's what you're doing -- wrecking it , wrecking it , wrecking it '' ! !
Griffith had confronted Hoag on the building's front steps -- Hoag had been permitted no further -- and backed him against a wrought-iron railing .
His rage had built up as he made his way here from the second floor , helped by the quantity of champagne he had consumed .
Hoag said , `` I didn't send for you , Leigh .
I want the captain in charge .
Where is he '' ? ?
`` Phil , for God's sake , go away .
The undersecretary's in there .
I told you there's nothing between Midge and me , nothing .
It's all in your mind '' .
A couple of sobs escaped him , followed by a sentiment that revealed his emotional state .
`` Why , I'm not fit to touch the hem of her garment '' .
`` Leigh , get a grip on yourself .
It's not about you or Midge .
I have some security information about the prime minister '' .
Griffith looked at him suspiciously through red-rimmed eyes .
`` Not about me ? ?
You mean it , Phil ? ?
You wouldn't pull my leg , old man ? ?
I did get you on the platform this morning '' .
`` I'm not pulling your leg .
Will you call that captain '' ? ?
`` No use , he won't come '' .
He peered closely at Hoag in the gathering darkness .
`` What happened to your head '' ? ?
`` I was hit -- knocked out .
Now will you get him '' ? ?
`` He says I'm to take the message '' .
He stared at Hoag drunkenly .
`` Who'd hit you in the head '' ? ?
`` It doesn't matter .
You get back to the captain and tell him this : Somebody's going to take a shot at the prime minister , and Mahzeer is in on the plot .
Tell him under no circumstances to trust the prime minister with Mahzeer '' .
Griffith said , `` That's impossible .
Mahzeer's the ambassador '' .
`` Nevertheless it's true '' .
`` Impossible '' .
Griffith was trying to clear his head of the champagne fuzz that encased it .
`` I'll show you how wrong you are .
Mahzeer and the prime minister are alone right now '' .
He nodded triumphantly .
`` So that proves it '' ! !
Hoag looked terrified .
`` Where are they '' ? ?
`` Where'd you expect , the john ? ?
Mahzeer's office '' .
`` Where is that '' ? ?
`` Facing us , two flights up .
Look , old man , you can't go up .
They won't even let you in the front door .
So why don't you be a good boy and '' --
Hoag grabbed him by the shoulders .
`` Listen to me , Leigh .
If you want to spend another day in the State Department -- another day -- you get in there and tell that captain what I told you '' .
He bit out the words .
`` And you know I can do it '' .
Griffith raised placating hands .
`` Easy does it , Phil .
I was just going .
I'm on my way '' .
He turned and fled into the house and made his way up the marble stairs without once looking back .
On the second landing he paused to look for Docherty , didn't see him , and accepted a glass of champagne .
He took several large swallows , recollected that Docherty had gone up another flight , and decided he would be wise to cover himself by finding him .
The way Hoag was , no telling what he might say or do .
He finished his champagne and climbed uncertainly to the next landing .
At the top a uniformed officer blocked further progress .
`` Yes , what is it '' ? ?
He asked .
`` I want Captain Docherty '' .
He spotted Docherty coming out of a room at the far end of the corridor and called to him .
Docherty said , `` It's okay , Bonfiglio , let him by '' .
They walked toward each other .
`` Well '' ? ?
Griffith said , `` Hoag told me to tell you '' -- he waited until they were close ; ;
it was hideously embarrassing -- `` not to let the prime minister be alone with Mahzeer '' .
Griffith looked half-crocked to the captain ; ;
it would be just like him .
`` Why not '' ? ?
`` He claims Mahzeer's in a plot to kill the P.M. '' .
Docherty went taut : was it possible ? ?
Could the ambassador himself be the man on this side the prime minister feared ? ?
Not possible , he thought ; ;
the prime minister knew who his enemy was here ; ;
he wasn't going to allow himself to be led meekly to the slaughter .
And if by some wild chance Mahzeer was the man , he wouldn't dare try anything now -- not after Docherty had looked in on the two of them to see that all was well .
Docherty was damned if he would make a fool of himself again the way he had earlier over the laundry truck .
One more muddleheaded play like that one and they'd be leading him away .
Still , this had to be checked out .
`` Where'd your friend Hoag get his information '' ? ?
He asked .
`` Haven't the faintest , Captain '' .
`` Would you mind sending him up here ? ?
I'd like to talk to him '' .
Troubled , he continued along the corridor , poking his head into the next office for a careful look around .
But Hoag had not stayed on the front steps when Griffith disappeared into the building .
He was unwilling to rely on Griffith's carrying his message , and he had no confidence the police would act on it .
If Mahzeer was alone with the prime minister he could be arranging his execution while Hoag stood out here shivering in the darkening street .
He would have to do something on his own .
But what ? ?
The door opened and three men and a woman in a sari swept past him and down the stairs .
In the lighted interior he saw other men and women struggling into their wraps .
These were the early departures ; ;
in half an hour the reception would be over .
If Mahzeer was planning to set up the prime minister for Muller he would have to do it in the next few minutes .
Hoag descended the stone steps to the street and looked up at the building .
Wide windows with many small leaded panes swept across the upper stories .
On the second floor he saw the animated faces of the party guests ; ;
the scene looked like a Christmas card .
On the third floor one of the two windows was lighted ; ;
it was framed in maroon drapes , and no faces were visible .
This would be Mahzeer's office .
He and the prime minister would be back from the window , seated at Mahzeer's desk ; ;
they would be going over papers Mahzeer had saved as excuse for just such a meeting .
In a minute , or five minutes , the business would be done ; ;
Mahzeer would stand up , the prime minister would follow .
Mahzeer would direct the prime minister's attention to something out the window and would guide him forward and then step to one side .
The single shot would come ; ;
Hoag would carry its sound to his grave .
Mahzeer , of course , would be desolate .
How was he to suspect that an assassin had been lurking somewhere across the street waiting for just such a chance ? ?
Hoag turned .
Where across the street ? ?
Where was Muller waiting with the rifle ? ?
Narrow four-story buildings ran the length of the block like books tightly packed on a shelf .
Most of them could be eliminated ; ;
Muller's would have to be one of the half dozen almost directly opposite .
The legation was generously set back from the building line ; ;
if the angle of fire were too great the jutting buildings on either side would interfere .
Would the shot come from a roof ? ?
He ran his eye along the roof copings ; ;
almost at once a figure bulked up .
But dully glinting on the dark form were the buttons and badge of a policeman .
With a cop patrolling the road Muller would have to be inside a building -- if he was here at all , and not waiting for the prime minister somewhere between this street and the terminal building at La Guardia Airport .
Hoag crossed the narrow street , squeezing between parked cars to reach the sidewalk .
From this side he could see farther into the legation's third-story window , but he saw no faces ; ;
the room's occupants were still seated or they had been called into the hallway by an alarmed police captain .
If only the latter were true .
He walked rapidly along the buildings scanning their facades : one was a club -- that was out ; ;
two others he ruled out because all their windows were lighted .
That left three , possibly four , one looking much like the next .
He climbed the steps of the first and opened the door to the vestibule .
He quickly closed it again .
He had assumed that all these buildings had been divided into apartments , but this one , from a glance at the hall furnishings , was obviously still a functioning town house , and its owners were in residence ; ;
that made it doubtful as the hiding place of a man whose plans had to be made in advance .
He went on to the next building and found what he expected -- the mingled cooking aromas of a public vestibule .
On one wall was the brass front of a row of mailboxes ; ;
there were six apartments .
Now what ? ?
The names on the mailboxes meant nothing to him .
This was senseless -- he had no idea what to look for .
He peered in the boxes themselves ; ;
all were empty except one , and that one was jammed with letters and magazines .
The occupants of Apartment Number 3 were probably away for a few days , and not likely to return on a Friday .
Had Muller made the same deduction ? ?
Muller was attracted to the lore of mailboxes .
He opened the inner door ; ;
the cooking odors were stronger -- all over the city , at this hour , housewives would be fussing over stoves .
He climbed , as quickly as he could urge his body , up the two unbroken flights to the third floor , pulling himself along on a delicate balustrade , all that remained of the building's beauty .
He paused on the landing to steady his breathing and then bent to examine the single door by the light of the weak bulb overhead .
Now he was certain : the lock had not yielded to Muller's collection of keys ; ;
fresh scars showed that the door had been prized open .
It had been shut again , but the lock was broken ; ;
he noted with a thrill of fear that the door moved under his touch .
What was he to do now ? ?
He had thought no further than finding Muller .
He realized now he had more than half hoped he wouldn't find him -- that Muller would not be here , that the attempt would be scheduled for somewhere beyond Hoag's control .
He could not break in on an armed man .
He would have to climb back down to the street and signal a cop .
Was there time ? ?
His thoughts were scattered by the sharp report of a rifle from the other side of the door .
Hoag pushed open the door : at the far end of the long dark room Muller was faintly silhouetted against the window , the rifle still raised ; ;
he stood with his feet apart on a kitchen table he had dragged to the sill .
He turned his head to the source of the disturbance and instantly back to the window and his rifle sight , dismissing Hoag for the moment with the same contempt he had shown in their encounter at Hoag's apartment .
Hoag stretched his left hand to the wall and fumbled for the switch : evil flourishes in the dark .
The room was bathed in light at the instant Muller's second shot came .
Muller , nakedly exposed at the bright window like a deer pinned in a car's headlights , threw down the rifle and turned to jump from the table ; ;
his face wore a look of outrage .
A shot caught him and straightened him up in screaming pain ; ;
a following volley of shots shattered glass , ripped the ceiling , and sent him lurching heavily from the table .
He was dead before his body made contact with the floor .
Hoag stumbled back into the hall , leaned against the wall , and started to retch .
After Captain Docherty sent Arleigh Griffith for Hoag he was able to complete his detailed inspection of the third floor and to receive a report from his man covering the floors above before Griffith returned , buoyed up by a brief stop for another glass of champagne .
The safe at Ingleside District Station stands next to the gum machine in a narrow passageway that leads to Captain Harris's office ( to the left ) , the lieutenant's office ( farther along and to the left ) and the janitor's supply closet ( straight ahead ) .
The safe is a repository for three dead flashlight batteries , a hundred and fifty unused left-hand fingerprint cards , a stack of unsold Policemen's Ball tickets from last year , and thirty-seven cents in coins and stamps .
Gun set the captain's fifth of Hiram Walker inside the safe before he reported to Lt. Killpath , though he knew that Killpath's ulcer prevented him from making any untoward incursion on Herman Wolff's gift .
It was more a matter of tact , and also it was none of Killpath's goddam business .
He walked up to the lieutenant's office , leaned wearily against the gun rack that housed four rifles and a gas gun nobody remembered having used and a submachine gun that was occasionally tried out on the Academy Range .
He stared at the clerk who sat at a scarred and ancient fumed-oak desk stuffing envelopes .
`` Where's the Lieut '' ? ?
The clerk wagged his head toward the captain's office .
Gun went to the connecting door , which was open , and stood at attention while Orville Torrence Killpath , in full uniform , finished combing his hair .
The lieutenant's sparse brown hair was heavily pomaded , and as Killpath raked the comb through it , it stuck together in thatches so that it looked like umbrella ribs clinging to his pink skull .
The lieutenant eyed Gun's reflection in the mirror over the washbowl and then glanced back at his own face , moving the comb methodically around his head .
Leave me alone , Gun thought .
Fight with Sam Schaeffer , fight with the whole damned Bureau .
But leave me alone .
Because I'm looking for the son of a bitch that killed that old man , and I'm going to get him .
If you just leave me to hell alone , Lieutenant .
Killpath peered through half-closed lids at his reflection , thrust up his chin in a gesture of satisfaction and about-faced .
Gun waited for Killpath to sit down behind the desk near the window .
He sat stiff-backed in a chair that did not swivel , though it was obvious to Gun that Killpath felt his position as acting captain plainly merited a swivel chair .
The desk before him was in no better repair than the rest of the furniture crowded into the room , including wooden file cabinets with some of their pulls yanked off and a wardrobe stained with the roof seepage of countless seasons .
Killpath pulled one thin leg up , clamping his arms around the shinbone to press his knee into an incredibly scrawny gut .
It was the posture which the men had come to recognize as that of Killpath defying his ulcer .
He put his chin on his kneecap , stretching his neck like that of a turkey on a chopping block , and stared wordlessly at his sergeant .
Gun waited .
The 7:45 bell rang and he could hear the outside doors bang shut , closing in the assembled day watch .
Finally , Orville intoned through his hawk nose , `` We can't have people running in any time they please , Sergeant '' .
`` No , sir '' .
`` Running in , running out .
Can't have it .
Makes for confusion and congestion '' .
He rocked back in the chair , knee locked against stomach , his beady eyes fixed on Matson .
He was silent again , possibly listening to the sounds in the squadroom .
Roll was being called .
Gun cleared his throat .
Killpath said , `` You were expected to report to my office twenty minutes ago , Sergeant .
That's not getting all the juice out of the orange , now is it '' ? ?
`` No , sir '' .
Then Killpath smiled .
Gun knew that nothing but aces back to back would give the lieutenant an ulcer and a smile at the same time .
The day-watch platoon commander , Lt. Rinker , was calling out the beat assignments , but Matson couldn't make the names mean anything .
`` I called the station at three this morning '' , Killpath's nasal voice pronounced .
`` Do you have any idea who might have been in charge at the time '' ? ?
`` Sergeant Vaughn , sir '' .
`` Now , now , you're just guessing , Sergeant '' .
He smiled thinly , savoring his joke .
`` What if I said nobody was here but a couple of patrolmen '' ? ?
`` Sir , Vaughn knows better than to leave the station without a relief .
He must have '' --
`` He let a patrolman take over the duties of the station keeper .
Now that's not regulation , is it '' ? ?
`` No , sir '' .
`` But you didn't know a thing about it , did you '' ? ?
Killpath leaned forward ; ;
his foot slipped off the chair and he put it back again , frowning now .
`` That's not taking one's command with a responsible attitude , Matson '' .
Gun told himself that the old bastard was a fool .
But stupidity was no consolation when it had rank .
`` I was out in the district , sir '' .
`` Oh , yes .
So I have heard '' .
He stretched a pale hand out to the scattered papers on his desk .
`` I might point out that your inability to report to my office this morning when you were instructed to do so has not ah limited my knowledge of your activities as you may have hoped '' .
He took up a white sheet of paper , dark with single-spaced data .
A car pulled into the driveway outside the window .
Gun knew it was Car 12 , the wagon , returned from delivering Ingleside's drunk-and-disorderlies to the City Jail .
But for some fool reason he couldn't remember which men he'd put on the transfer detail .
He stared at the report in Killpath's hand , sure it was written by Accacia -- just as sure as if he'd submitted it in his scrawled longhand .
He sucked in his breath and kept quiet while Killpath laid down the sheet again , wound the gold-wire stems of his glasses around his ears and then , eying the report as it lay before him on the desk , intoned , `` Acting Lieutenant Gunnar Matson one failed to see that the station keeper was properly relieved two absented himself throughout the entire watch without checking on the station's activities or the whereabouts of his section sergeants three permitted members of the Homicide Detail of the Inspector's Bureau to arrogate for their own convenience a patrolman who was thereby prevented from carrying on his proper assignment four failed to notify the station commander Acting Captain O. T. Killpath of a homicide occurring in the district five frequented extralegal establishments known as after-hours spots for purposes of an unofficial and purportedly social nature and six '' -- he leaned back and peeled off his glasses `` -- failed to co-operate with the Acting Captain by returning promptly when so ordered .
What have you to say to that , Sergeant '' ? ?
Killpath sailed the paper across the desk , but Matson didn't pick it up or even glance at it .
`` Well '' ? ?
`` I didn't think Accacia knew so many big words , Lieutenant '' .
Killpath licked his lips .
`` Patrolman Accacia is an alert and conscientious law-enforcement officer .
I don't think his diligence mitigates your negligence , Matson '' .
`` Negligence , hell '' ! !
Gun held his breath a moment , pushing the volume and pitch of his voice down under the trapdoor in his throat .
`` Sir .
I would have been negligent and a goddam lousy cop to boot , if I'd sat around this station all night when somebody got away with murder in my district .
It's too bad I didn't call you , and it's too bad I let Schaeffer use Accacia when he could have had a boy who'd be glad to learn something of Homicide procedure .
But I'm not one damned bit sorry I went out to question the people I know in the places they hang around , and '' --
`` Let's not push our patience beyond the danger line , Sergeant '' , Killpath nasaled .
`` I shouldn't like to have to write you up for insubordination as well as dereliction of duty '' .
Gun stiffened , his hands balling into fists at his sides .
He clamped his jaws to keep the fury from spilling out .
An argument with Orville Torrence Killpath was as frustrating and as futile as a cap pistol on a firing range .
Killpath leaned forward again , rocked comfortably with his arms still wrapped around one knee .
`` Let's just remember , Sergeant , that we must all carry our own umbrella .
A district station can't run smoothly , unless '' -- He interrupted himself , looking around Gun at the doorway .
`` Morning , Lieutenant Rinker '' .
`` Sorry , Orville .
I thought you hadn't come in yet '' .
`` I've been here for some time '' .
He stood up , cocked his head and eyed Gun coldly .
`` The sergeant is just leaving '' .
It had come as no great surprise to Matson that the hot water in the showers didn't work , that Loren Severe had thrown up all over the stairs , or that some thieving bastard of a cop had walked off with his cigarettes .
It was the best he could hope for on a watch that had ended with a session in Killpath's office .
Now , as he passed the open counter that divided the assembly room from the business office , he nodded and said good night to the station keeper and his clerks , not stopping to hear the day-watch playback of his chewing out .
Not that he gave a damn what the grapevine sent out about Killpath's little speech on the comportment of platoon commanders .
He just didn't want to talk about it .
If the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit on his ass around the station all night , Killpath would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour ; ;
because he'd be damned if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain .
At the doorway he squinted up at the gray morning overcast and patted his jacket pockets for the cigarettes , remembering then that he'd left them at the Doughnuttery .
He could pick up another pack on his way home , if he were going home .
But even before he started across the oiled road to his Plymouth , parked in the lot under the cypress trees across from the station , he knew that he wasn't going home .
Not yet .
It was nine o'clock in the morning : the hour which , like a spade turning clods of earth , exposed to the day a myriad of busy creatures that had lain dormant in the quiet night .
Mission Street at this hour was populated by a whole community that Gun could not have seen on his tour of duty -- the neighborhood that had known Urbano Quintana by day .
Then
Sol Phillips had purchased the Alliance Furniture Mart seventeen years ago .
It was professedly worth three thousand dollars in stock and good will , and the name was written in gold in foot-high letters across each of the two display windows .
On the right window , at eye level , in smaller print but also in gold , was Gonzalez , Prop. , and under that , Se Habla Espanol .
Mr. Phillips took a razor to Gonzalez , Prop. , but left the promise that Spanish would be understood because he thought it meant that Spanish clientele would be welcome .
Language was no problem anyway ; ;
Mr. Phillips had only to signal from his doorway to summon aid from the ubiquitous bilingual children who played on the sidewalks of Mission Street .
Aside from the fact that business was slow this time of year and his one salesgirl was not the most enterprising , Mr. Phillips had no worries at all , and he said as much to Gun Matson , who sat across from him in civilian clothes , on a Jiffy-Couch-a-Bed , mauve velour , $79.89 nothing-down special ! !
`` She's honest as the day '' , Mr. Phillips said , and added , `` Mr. Gunnar , I can say this to you : Beebe is a little too honest .
You can't tell a customer how much it's going to cost him to refinance his payments before he even signs for a loan on the money down ! !
A time plan is a mere convenience , you understand , and when '' -- He interrupted himself , smiling .
`` I put her in lamps .
That way I don't lose so much '' .
`` Why don't you just hire somebody else '' ? ?
`` She says she has to finish a story '' .
He shrugged .
`` I asked her why she couldn't do it tomorrow , but it seems the muse is working good tonight and she's afraid to let it go '' .
Casey made some comment , but his mind was busy as he considered the man .
His name was George Needham and he , too , had come from a good family .
He was perhaps thirty-two , nicely set up , with light brown hair that had a pronounced wave .
He was always well groomed and well tailored , and he had that rich man's look which was authentic enough and came from two good prep schools and a proper university .
An only child , he had done all the things that young men do who have been born to money and social position until his father double-crossed him by dying broke .
Since then he had worked at this and that , though some said his main interest was gambling .
All this went through Casey's mind in the first instant , but what held his interest was the fact that these two should be together at all .
For he had understood that Betty had been engaged to a boy named Barry Jenkins .
She had grown up with young Jenkins , and he had heard that they had been at the point of getting married at least twice .
He wanted to ask her about Jenkins now , but he knew he couldn't do so in Needham's presence .
And so , still wondering and a little perplexed , he grinned at the girl and spoke lightly to make sure that she would know he was kidding .
`` Where did you pick him up '' ? ?
`` Oh , I've known him quite a while '' .
She glanced at her companion fondly .
`` Haven't I , George '' ? ?
`` I've been after her for years '' , Needham said , `` but I've never been able to get anywhere until the last few days '' .
The girl's eyes were softly shining as she reached out and touched Casey's hand .
`` Can I tell you a secret ? ?
We're going to get married .
Do you approve '' ? ?
Casey kept his smile fixed , but some small inner disturbance was working on him as he thought again about Needham , who was eight or ten years older than the girl .
He wondered whether Needham was going to swear off gambling and get a steady job or whether he was counting on the income from Betty's estate to subsidize him .
None of this showed in his face , and he tried to keep his skepticism in hand .
He made a point of frowning , of acting out the part of the fond father-confessor .
`` I'll have to give it some thought '' , he said .
`` You wouldn't want me to say yes without making sure his intentions are honorable , would you '' ? ?
She made a face at him and then she laughed .
`` Of course not '' .
`` I'll get my references in order '' , Needham said , and though he spoke with a smile , Casey somehow got the idea that he was not particularly amused .
`` Stop by any time , Casey '' .
He stood up and touched the girl's arm .
`` Come on , darling .
If you're really serious about working on that story , I'd better take you home '' .
Casey watched them go , still frowning absently and then dismissing the matter as he called for his check .
As he went out he told Freddie the dinner was perfect , and when he got his hat and coat from Nancy Parks and put a fifty-cent piece in the slot , he told her to be sure that it went toward her dowry .
A taxi took him back to the bar and grill where he had left his car , and a few minutes later he found a parking place across the street from his apartment .
Because his mind had been otherwise occupied for the past couple of hours , he did not think to look and see if Jerry Burton's car was still there .
In fact , he did not think about Jerry Burton at all until he entered his living room and closed the door behind him .
Only then , when his glance focused on the divan and saw that it was empty , did he remember his earlier problem .
Even from where he stood he could see the neatly folded blanket that he had spread over Burton , the pillow , the sheet of paper on top of it .
Then he was striding across the room , his thoughts confused but the worry building swiftly inside him as he snatched up the note .
Jack :
Look in the wastebasket .
I knew the only way I could beat you was to play possum , but it was a good try , kid , and I appreciate it .
The wastebasket stood near the wall next to the divan , and the instant Casey picked it up he knew what had happened .
The discarded papers inside were sodden , there was a glint of liquid at the bottom , and the smell of whisky was strong and distinct .
He put the basket down distastefully , muttering softly and thoroughly disgusted with himself and his plan that had seemed so foolproof .
For he remembered too well how he had brought back the loaded drinks to Burton and then returned to the kitchen to get weaker drinks for himself .
For another second or two he gave in to the annoyance that was directed at himself ; ;
then his mind moved on to be confronted by something far more serious , and as the thought expanded , the implications jarred him .
It no longer mattered that Burton had outsmarted him .
The important thing was that Burton had gone somewhere to meet a blackmailer with a gun in his pocket .
And that gun was empty .
Even before his mind had rounded out the idea , he thrust one hand into his trousers pocket and pulled out the six slugs he had taken from the revolver .
He considered them with brooding eyes , brows bunched as his brain grappled with the problem and tried to find some solution .
He said : `` The crazy fool '' , half aloud .
He put the shells on the table , as though he could no longer bear to hold them .
He thought : Where the hell could he have gone ? ?
How can I find him ? ?
There was no answer to this and he began to pace back and forth across the room , his imagination out of control .
He tried to tell himself that maybe Burton had sobered up enough to get some sense .
Maybe he only intended to scare the blackmailer , whoever he was , in which case an unloaded gun would be good enough .
He thought of other possibilities , none of them satisfactory , and finally he began to think , to wonder if there was some way he could reach Burton .
Then , as he turned toward the telephone , it rang shrilly to shatter the stillness in the room and he reached for it eagerly .
`` Yeah '' , he said .
`` Casey '' ? ?
`` Yeah '' .
`` Tony Calenda '' .
Casey heard the voice distinctly and he knew who it was , but it took him a while to make the mental readjustment and control the disturbance inside his head .
When he heard Calenda say : `` What about that picture you took this afternoon '' ? ?
It still took him another few seconds to remember the job he had done for Frank Ackerly .
`` What picture '' ? ?
He demanded .
`` You took a picture of me at the corner of Washington and Blake about three thirty this afternoon '' .
`` Who says so '' ? ?
`` One of my boys '' .
Casey believed that much .
Calenda was not the sort who walked around without one of his `` boys '' close at hand .
`` So '' ? ?
`` With my trial coming up in Federal Court next week I wouldn't want that picture published '' .
`` Who says it's going to be published '' ? ?
`` I wouldn't even want it to get around '' .
Under normal circumstances Casey was a little fussy when people told him what to do with pictures he had taken .
Even so , he generally listened and was usually reasonable to those who voiced their objections properly .
Right now , however , he was still too worried about Jerry Burton , and the gun that had no bullets , and the story Burton had told him , to care too much about Tony Calenda .
His nerves were getting a little ragged and his impatience put an edge in his voice .
`` Look '' , he said .
`` I was hired to take a picture .
I took it .
That's all I know about it and that's all I care '' .
`` Maybe you'd better tell the guy who hired you what I said '' .
`` You tell him '' .
`` All right '' , Calenda said , his voice still quiet .
`` But I meant what I said , Casey .
If that picture gets around and I find out you had anything to do with it , I'm going to send a couple of my boys around to see you '' .
`` You do that '' , Casey said .
`` Just be sure to send your two best boys , Tony '' .
He hung up with a bang , annoyed at himself for running off at the mouth like that but still terribly concerned with the situation he had helped to create .
As soon as he could think logically again he reached for the telephone directory and found Jerry Burton's home number .
He dialed it and listened to it ring ten times before he hung up .
He called the bar and grill where he had picked Burton up that afternoon .
When he was told that no one had seen Burton since then , he thought of three other places that were possibilities .
Each time he got the same answer and in the end he gave up .
By the time he had smoked three cigarettes he had calmed down .
He had done all he could and that was that .
And anyway Burton was not the kind of guy who would be likely to get in trouble even when he was drunk .
He , Casey , had been scared for a while , but that had come mostly from the fact that he felt responsible .
He should have stayed here and watched Burton .
He didn't .
So he made a mistake .
So what ? ?
He kept telling himself this as he went out to the kitchen to make a drink .
Only then did he decide he didn't want one .
He considered opening a can of beer but vetoed that idea too .
Finally he went into the bedroom and sat down to take off his shoes .
He had just finished unlacing the right one when the telephone rang again .
When he snatched it up the voice that came to him was quick and urgent .
`` Casey ? ?
You don't know me but I know you .
If you want a picture get to the corner of Adams and Clark just as fast as you can .
If you hurry you might beat the headquarters boys '' .
Casey heard the click of the distant receiver before he could open his mouth , and it took him no more than three seconds to make his decision .
For over the years he had received many such calls .
Some of them came from people who identified themselves .
Some telephoned because he had done them a favor in the past .
Others because they expected some sort of reward for the information .
A few passed along a tip for the simple reason that they liked him and wanted to give him a break .
Only an occasional tip turned out to be a phony , and , like the police , Casey had made a point of running down all such suggestions and he did not hesitate this time .
He was in his car with his camera and equipment bag in less than two minutes , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue .
It was a district of small factories and loft buildings and occasional tenements , and he could see the police radio car as he rounded the corner and slammed on the brakes .
He did not bother with his radio -- there would be time for that later -- but as he scrambled out on the pavement he saw the filling station and the public telephone booth and knew instantly how he had been summoned .
The police car had pulled up behind a small sedan , its headlights still on .
Slowly he pulled out the hand throttle until the boat was moving at little more than a crawl , and watched Elaine rapidly spin from one station to another , tune in the null , then draw in a line on the chart .
`` We're out just a little too far .
Make a 90 degree straight for shore '' .
Poet came in , raising his eyebrows appreciatively as he saw Elaine .
`` Now '' ? ?
He asked .
`` Pretty quick '' , she replied .
`` Will you drop the anchor '' ? ?
Poet nodded , swung below and a moment later emerged from the forward hatch where he picked up the anchor .
The rock and roll music coming from the radio station suddenly faded as the boat coasted into the null on the Aj .
`` Reverse '' , Elaine said , then peered through the loop of the RDF and waved to Poet .
A second later she came behind the wheel and backed off the anchor line until it was set in the ocean floor .
She cut the engines and slowly the cruiser swung around on the end of its lines until its bow was pointing into the wind and the cockpit faced toward the shore .
Nick watched her somewhat enviously as she efficiently cut the engines , and started the auxiliary motor .
Poet came up from below , wearing new bathing trunks .
The price tag hung from the belt and he pulled it off as he entered the chartroom and looked at it curiously .
Nick wondered if Elaine had bought them , but he said nothing .
Nobody , he suddenly realized , was saying anything .
It seemed as if they were all under a spell .
There should be an excited conversation , for somewhere , directly below them , was a treasure lost for more than four hundred years .
But instead of chatter there was a null , like on the radio direction finder .
Once , in New York , he had gone flying with some friends in a small private airplane with a single engine .
They had all been laughing , joking , when suddenly the engine had failed .
No one had screamed .
No one had prayed .
All had fallen into a complete silence , listening to the wind whistle over the wings .
The pilot had been good .
He'd landed the plane on a small airstrip in Connecticut and as soon as the aircraft had coasted to a stop , everyone had burst into chatter at the same moment .
There had been tension in the plane during the silent descent ; ;
a tension similar to the one now .
But in the plane there was a concrete reason for it .
Now , at this moment , there should be none unless skin diving was much more dangerous than he had been led to believe .
Yet tension existed .
The same taut-nerved relationship as there had been between the passengers on the plane now strained at the three of them here on the boat .
It hung over them like a cloud , its arrival as sudden as a cloud skidding over the sun .
Silently , Elaine picked up her keys from the table and went out into the cockpit , Poet behind her , Nick trailing behind him .
She threw back a cushion over one of the seats , unlocked a padlock on the chest beneath it , then presently straightened , holding a long knife and a wicked looking spear gun in her hand .
Poet whistled softly as he looked at the gun .
`` Hydraulic '' ? ?
He asked .
Elaine nodded .
`` They are the best '' .
She kicked the locker lid shut and replaced the cushion .
`` They are the most efficient '' .
`` And the deadliest '' , Poet commented as he buckled on his tank harness .
`` Why do you need an arsenal '' ? ?
Nick asked , apprehensively , staring at the weapon .
`` It's quite possible there's more than codfish down there , man '' , Poet replied with a short , nervous laugh as he held the harness for Elaine .
A moment later , moving awkwardly because of the swimming fins , she picked up the gun , handed the knife to Poet , then rolled off the transom of the boat , back first .
Poet nodded to Nick and entered the water in a similar fashion .
Another moment and they were out of sight , leaving behind only a string of bubbles as a clue to their whereabouts .
For a while Nick followed the twisting course of the bubbles , wondering which set came from Elaine .
They remained close together , their air trail wiggling like serpents traveling side by side .
Eventually the bubbles became lost in the sparkle of the ocean surface , and he rolled over on his back .
Clasping his hands behind his head , he stared at the blue sky .
There was nothing quite like being alone on a boat on the ocean .
Alfredo certainly must have enjoyed being alone .
Next to the ocean , probably the loneliest spot was the desert .
If Elaine's uncle had stuck to this desire for aloneness , he probably would still be alive .
Yet Alfredo wanted money wanted money to roam through the deserts .
And Graham wanted money probably to roam among the dice tables in Las Vegas .
It was an odd combination a strange pair to stumble upon the wreck of the Trinidad .
But Graham hadn't stumbled on it .
Two to three weeks prior to the charter of the Virginia , Graham had been snooping around the San Luis Rey Mission .
The small helicopter with its two steel skids churned offshore and Nick raised up to watch it heading south .
That was a hell of a note , he thought .
A couple couldn't even find a secluded spot anywhere on a beach to neck nowadays without someone swooping down upon them .
If the character flying that thing had gone over San Clemente Island yesterday he would have had an eyeful .
Off to the west a beautiful schooner slowly beat its way into the wind , headed on a tack toward San Clemente .
Behind it a cabin cruiser drifted crossways in the small ground-swell , a lone fisherman in the chair aft .
The fisherman was right in the middle of the Deep .
Nick recalled stories that the two best fishing spots in Southern California were over the La Jolla Deep and the Redondo Deep , two spots where the ocean dropped off to fantastic depths almost from the shoreline .
Someday , geologists had warned , the land on both sides of these deeps would fall into the ocean and no more La Jolla or Redondo Beach .
Meanwhile , fishermen took advantage of them to pull up whoppers .
Sometimes the fish exploded as they neared the surface because of the difference in pressure .
Why , he wondered , had Elaine wanted him along on this trip ? ?
He couldn't skindive , he couldn't run a boat , except on the open sea .
He stood up , stretched , looked around for the bubbles , but could see none .
Strolling down to the galley , he lit the butane under the coffee pot and when the brew was heated , poured himself a cup and went up to the chartroom .
Turning on the hi-fi , he went back to the cockpit , stretched out on the cushions and listened to the music .
Elaine and Poet returned together , popping up over the transom almost like dolphins breaking water .
He sat up and watched as they pulled themselves over the stern .
`` Any luck '' ? ?
He asked .
Poet shook his head , sliding his face mask up on his forehead .
`` We're right on the edge of the Deep '' , Elaine said .
Pulling off her face mask , she carefully placed the spear gun across the stern , then lifted her wet hair from her back and squeezed out the water .
`` Which is a break as the area to search is less than a square mile '' , she added as she swung her legs over the transom .
`` Any news '' ? ?
`` Not a thing '' .
He tossed her a towel , then repeated the service for Poet .
`` Cigarette '' ? ?
Elaine shook her head as she slipped out of her harness , but Poet nodded .
His feet still hung over the stern of the transom , but as he reached for the smoke he raised them to swing them in .
The fin on his foot caught on the moulding , throwing him off balance .
His forearm smashed painfully into the narrow washboard and he grimaced as he grabbed his bruised limb with his other hand and rolled into the boat .
`` Kee-reist '' ! !
The word hissed distinctly from Poet's lips as he struggled to his feet .
Nick's body became rigid .
Turning slowly he saw Poet in a brilliant glare of horror .
Poet ! !
His face was still creased in pain as he studied the underside of his arm .
Poet a murderer ? ?
Turning quickly toward Elaine , Nick saw that she , too , stood in shocked surprise .
The sudden silence was too silent .
Instinctively aware of the charged atmosphere , Poet raised his head slowly , looking first at Elaine .
She had caught the implication of the oath .
Her face was frozen into the mask of a mannequin , her body absolutely motionless .
And then Nick knew that all of them knew Elaine , himself and Poet .
Elaine recovered first , so quickly that Nick thought he might have imagined her sudden reaction .
`` Do you need a bandage '' ? ?
She asked steadily .
Poet rubbed his arm .
`` It's like banging a shin '' , he said , his eyes lingered on Nick's face , then moved back to Elaine .
`` Hurts like hell for a second , then it disappears '' .
`` I'll get some ointment '' .
Elaine turned and started toward the companionway .
But her walk was too steady , too slow , telegraphing her fear .
Nick sensed it .
So did Poet .
Springing like a cat , he leaped back , swooped up the spring gun and , whirling , pointed it toward the cabin .
At the same instant , Nick hit the barrel and threw himself upon the smaller man .
The gun fired next to his ear with a vicious whoosh like the first stroke of an old steam engine .
At the same instant , Elaine screamed wildly , the sound ending abruptly as Nick went off the boat and into the water on top of the frantic , struggling Poet .
The moment the sea closed over Nick , some atavistic sense warned him that he would survive in this alien element only if he did not panic .
But the murderer to whom he clung had a tremendous advantage .
The wide flippers on Poet's feet gave his legs incredible power , driving the two of them down into the water as they rolled over and over .
Poet was the captured , arms pinioned to his side , and he twisted convulsively trying to escape .
Poet would escape , Nick thought grimly , because he wore the apparatus which would keep him alive under water .
But Nick would not let go .
The rubber and glass face mask slipped from Poet's forehead , bounced painlessly off Nick's chin , then disappeared .
Poet twisted again and Nick's knuckles scraped on the air tank , ripping off the skin .
For a split second , Nick relaxed his grip and Poet's slippery body spun completely around before Nick could stop him , holding him now from the rear .
Something flailed at the side of Nick's head as they rolled around and around .
Suddenly Poet stopped struggling and the two of them hung suspended in the water , not rising , not sinking .
A sharp pain lanced across Nick's chest and a bubble of air escaped from his tortured lungs , joining dozens of others that sailed lazily toward the surface like helium balloons rising into the sky .
A black , snake-like object swayed eerily in front of him , spewing bubbles from its flat cobra head .
The air hose was free ! !
The discovery struck Nick like a blow .
Desperately , Nick flashed one hand up , catching Poet's neck in the bend of his elbow .
At the same instant , he grabbed the loose , writhing hose with his other hand and bit down on the hard rubber mouthpiece .
Instinctively he exhaled through his nose then sucked in the air from the hose .
At once the excruciating pain in his chest stopped and he was seized with a sudden , wild exultation .
As if this was a signal , Poet abruptly began to thrash the water and the quick movement slowly made them sink through the water .
Relentlessly , Nick held on , sucking on the hose , inhaling the air that belonged to Poet .
Poet was not fighting Nick now .
Harbor Point sticks out into the ocean like the fat neck of a steamer clam .
It's a rich village but not much for action -- too many solid residents , not enough tourists or working stiffs .
It's at the far end of the county and the last time I came here was for a hit and run manslaughter -- about seven months ago .
Chief Bob Moore looked his same hick-self ; ;
a man mountain running to lard in his middle-age .
Seeing me he said with real surprise , `` Well , well , ain't we honored ! !
Hardly expected the head of County Homicide up for this murder .
You sure climbed fast , Jed .
Rookie investigator last summer and now it's Inspector Jed .
Took me 19 years to become Chief of our three man police force .
Proves a college education pays off '' .
His sarcasm was followed by a stupid grin of his thick mouth and bad teeth .
`` I guess it helps '' , I said , paying no attention to his ribbing .
`` Never could figure out why you ever wanted to be a cop , Jed .
You're not only young but well , you don't even look like a police officer .
A runt with narrow shoulders and that brush haircut hell , you'd pass for a juvenile delinquent of the hotrod set .
In my day the first requirement for a cop was to look like the law , big and tough .
Man , when my 275 pounds and six-four comes along , why it's the same as another badge .
When I say move , a guy moves '' ! !
`` Don't worry about my being tough , Moore .
Also , it's far too early in the day for corny lines like the bigger they come You've had your gassy lecture , let's get to work .
Who was the murdered woman Mrs. Buck '' ? ?
`` Widow , nice sort of woman .
Comfortably fixed .
Ran a fair-sized farm .
Came to the Harbor as a bride and Don't worry Jed , this one is in the bag .
I know the killer , have the only road off the peninsula covered '' .
`` Yeah , passed your road block as I drove in '' , I said , sitting on his polished desk .
Although Bob dressed like a slob , he kept a neat office .
`` Okay , what happened '' ? ?
`` About nine this morning Mrs. Buck phones me she's having trouble with one of her farm hands -- money trouble .
Colored fellow named Tim Williams -- only hand she has working for her now .
Tim come with the migratory workers that follow the crops up from the South last year , but Tim and his wife settled here .
Never had no trouble with him before , thought he was a hard worker , hustling around to get a full week's work .
Anyway , Julia asks me to .
''
`` Julia '' ? ?
`` Come on , Inspector , look alive .
Julia Buck , the deceased '' , Moore said , slipping me his smug , idiot-grin again .
`` Julia asks me to come out at once .
But she didn't sound real alarmed you know , like there was any immediate danger .
I got there at 9:47 A.M. , found her strangled .
I would have come sooner if I'd known .
No doubt about Tim being the killer -- I have a witness .
Don't know why the County had to send anybody up here .
Told them I can handle this '' .
`` Yeah , seems you have a nice package , with all the strings tied .
Who's '' ? ?
`` I'll collar Tim before night '' .
`` Who's your witness '' ? ?
`` Julia had -- has -- an old Indian woman cooking for her -- Nellie Harris .
Probably the last of the original Island Indians .
Nellie was in the kitchen , had just come to work , when she heard Tim arguing with Julia in the living room .
Swears she recognized his voice , that Tim yelled , ' It's my money and I want it ' ! !
And then rushed out of the house .
Then she heard Julia phone me .
Nellie went on with her house work -- until I found Julia dead .
And before you say it , Nellie ain't near strong enough to have strangled Julia .
There's no doubt this Tim sneaked back and killed Mrs. Buck .
Another fact : Tim's disappeared -- on the run .
But there's no way off the Point except through my road block .
Guess you want to see the body -- have her up the street in Doc Abel's office '' .
`` Let's see it '' .
We walked up Main Street to this big white house , then around to the back .
Being the Harbor's sole doctor , Abel was also its Medical Examiner .
The corpse was on a table , covered by a sheet .
Doc Abel was busy up front with some of his live patients .
Pulling back the sheet , I examined the bruises around Julia Buck's once slender throat .
Powerful hands had killed her .
`` Find any prints '' ? ?
Chief Moore shook his big head , seemed lost in thought as he stared at the nude body .
Then he said , `` Never noticed it before I mean , when she was dressed but for a woman her age , Julia had a real fine figure '' .
I dropped the sheet , glanced at my watch .
It was almost one and I hadn't had lunch .
Still , I wanted to get this over with , had a lot of paper work waiting in my own office .
I told him , `` I want to go see the Buck house '' .
`` Sure '' .
Walking back down Main Street , I said , `` I saw the Harbor's one squad car at the road block , we'll ride out in my car '' .
`` Naw , we'll use mine '' , Moore said , opening the door of a sleek white Jaguar roadster .
As I slid in beside him he said , `` Some heap , hey ? ?
Got a heck of a buy on this , dirt cheap '' .
`` Yeah , it's a real load '' , I told him , looking up the street at my battered Ford .
Five racing minutes later we pulled into the driveway of this typical two-story house , and when the Jaguar stopped I managed to swallow .
There was a garage and a modern barn in the rear , all of it standing between two large flat fields planted in early potatoes .
Everything shouted gentleman farming , the kind of grandfather-father-to-son folding money the Point is known for .
The fins of a Caddy were sticking out of the garage , while the inside of the house was a comfortable mixture of old and expensive contemporary furniture .
Nellie Harris wasn't old , she was ancient -- a tiny shriveled woman with a face like a tan prune .
She was also stone deaf in her right ear .
She calmly repeated what Moore had told me .
When I asked , `` Why didn't you go into the living room to see how Mrs. Buck was '' ? ?
The old gal stared at me with her hard eyes , said , `` She didn't call .
I do the living room last .
I went up stairs and did the bath and her bedroom -- way I always do in the morning '' .
`` Have you any idea what this Tim and Mrs. Buck were arguing about '' ? ?
`` Probably wages .
Miss Julia was a hard woman with a dollar .
Years ago when I asked her to put me in Social Security , so's I wouldn't have to be working now , Miss Julia threatened to fire me -- all because it would mean a few more dollars a year to her '' .
`` Did you hear Tim return '' ? ?
`` No sir .
Nobody came until Chief Moore '' .
I drummed on the kitchen table with my pencil .
`` Mrs. Buck have any men friends '' ? ?
`` Her '' ? ?
The wrinkled mouth laughed , revealing astonishingly strong , white , teeth .
`` I never see none .
But then I wasn't her social secretary '' .
`` Was she on friendly terms with other members of her family '' ? ?
`` Didn't have no family -- around here .
They had a son -- killed in the war '' .
I walked into the living room .
There didn't seem to be any signs of a struggle .
I told Moore , `` Where does Tim's wife live '' ? ?
`` I'll take you there .
Look Jed , this is an open and shut case and I have to relieve my men at the road block soon .
Okay , come on '' .
We did 80 miles an hour across a hard dirt road to a cluster of shacks .
In late summer migratory workers lived five and six to a room in these .
Now they were empty , except for a cottage across the road .
Mrs. Tim Williams was about 21 , with skin the color of bitter chocolate , and if you discounted the plain dress and worn slippers , she was startlingly pretty .
The inside of their place was full of new furniture , five bucks down and a buck a week stuff , but all of it clean and full of the warmth of a home .
Mrs. Williams was both sullen and frightened .
She said she didn't know a thing -- Tim had left the house at six in the morning , as usual .
She hadn't seen him since .
`` Did Mrs. Buck owe him any wages '' ? ?
I asked .
`` Well , for this week , but they wasn't due 'till Saturday .
Listen , Mr. Inspector , no matter what anybody say , my Tim didn't kill that woman ! !
Tim is a good man , hard working .
He strong as a bull but gentle as a baby .
Even if he angry , Tim wouldn't hurt a woman .
He never in his life took a hand to a woman or ''
`` We'll get him soon , see what he says '' , Chief Moore cut in .
`` Does your husband have a car '' ? ?
I asked .
`` Got us an old station wagon .
Need it for the job '' .
I asked a silly question : `` You've no idea where your husband could be , now '' ? ?
She shook her head .
I knew she was lying .
I stood there , staring at her for a moment -- thinking mostly of her beauty and her poverty .
Moore said , `` Come on , Jed , I have to get to my men '' .
On my way out I told her , `` If you should eh just happen to see your husband , get him to give himself up .
He'll get a fair trial .
Hiding out like this won't get him anything , except more trouble , or a bullet '' .
`` Yes .
I'll tell him -- if I see him '' .
We made it back to the Harbor in less than four minutes .
I tried not to act scared .
That Jaguar could really barrel along .
I told Moore I was going to eat , get some forms filled out by Doc Abel .
Chief Moore said , `` If I don't see you when I return , see you for certain at my road block , Inspector '' .
I had a bowl of decent chowder , phoned the Doc and he said he'd leave the death statements with his girl -- in a half hour .
Lighting my pipe , I took a walk .
The Harbor is a big yachting basin in the summer .
Even now , there were several slick cruisers tied to the dock , an ocean-going yawl anchored inside the breakwater .
There was a 34 foot Wheeler with Chief Bob's in big gold letters on its stern also tied up at the dock .
It wasn't a new boat , about five years old , but fitted with fishing outriggers and chairs .
I asked an old guy running a fishing station if the boat was Moore's .
He said , `` You bet .
Bob Moore is plumb crazy about blue fishing '' .
I dropped into the doctor's office , picked up my forms .
As I was walking back to the Police Station , which was in the same building with the City Hall and Post Office , I saw Mrs. Tim Williams sneaking into the back of my car .
If she moved gracefully , she was clumsy at it .
I got into the front seat .
She was ' hiding ' on the floor of the back seat , the soft curves of her back and hips -- rousing lines .
I drove out of the Harbor , turned off into a dirt road among the scrub pine trees and stopped .
I waited a few minutes and she sat up .
For another moment we didn't talk , then she began to weep .
She mumbled , `` I just know that Chief Moore is out to kill my Tim '' ! !
`` Maybe .
I never saw him so anxious before '' , I said , lighting my pipe and offering her a cigarette .
`` Of course , it could be because this is his first murder case .
You know where Tim is , don't you , Mrs. Williams '' ? ?
She puffed on the cigarette slowly , sitting slumped against the back seat ; ;
didn't answer .
But the police have dropped the case .
I want you to go to Pearson City and find out why -- first-hand stuff for your modern crime series .
Take the same train Diana Beauclerk took and get there at the same time .
Go to the same hotel and occupy the same suite -- 1105 '' .
`` Will the hotel rent it so soon after the crime '' ? ?
`` Why not ? ?
The police have finished with it .
Besides , the number of the suite hasn't been published in any newspaper .
To the hotel people , you'll just be an innocent tourist who happens to ask for that particular suite '' .
`` Still , they may not want to rent it '' .
`` That's your headache .
Once inside , keep your eyes open '' ! !
`` For what '' ! !
Alec was growing more and more skeptical .
`` The police will have gone over every square inch of the place with a fine-tooth comb .
The hotel people will have scoured and vacuumed it .
Ten to one , it's even been redecorated '' ! !
`` There's always a chance they may have overlooked something '' , returned the chief .
`` I'm betting on that chance .
Interview the bellboy and chambermaid who waited on Beauclerk .
Study the topography of the suite .
Soak up local color .
Reenact everything Beauclerk did .
Try to imagine you're going to be murdered yourself -- between eleven p.m. and one a.m. the night you arrive '' .
Alec smirked .
`` Cheerful way to spend an evening '' ! !
A sudden thought wiped the smirk from his face .
`` Suppose the murderer should return to the scene of the crime '' ! !
The chief's eyes gleamed .
He spoke softly .
`` That is exactly what I'm hoping for .
After all , the murderer is still at large .
And the key to the suite is still missing '' .
On the train Alec refreshed his memory of the Beauclerk case by reading teletype flimsies -- spot-news stories about the crime sent out by the Pearson City Star , a member of the Syndicate Press .
Diana Beauclerk was a second-rate actress living in New York .
Two weeks ago she had gone west to Pearson City .
Daniel Forbes , her divorced husband , lived there .
So did the firm of lawyers who had got her the divorce , Kimball and Stacy .
She reached Pearson City at nine p.m. and went straight to the Hotel Westmore .
She telephoned the junior partner of her law firm , Martin Stacy , and asked him to call at her hotel that evening .
At the time of her divorce Forbes had promised to pay her a lump sum in lieu of further alimony if she remarried .
According to Stacy , she told him she was planning to remarry and she wanted him to ask Forbes for the lump sum .
Stacy replied that it would bankrupt Forbes , who had just sunk all his money in a real estate venture .
Stacy said he left her suite at nine forty-five p.m. .
She was in good health and spirits , but still determined to get the money from Forbes .
No one saw Stacy leave .
No other visitor inquired for her that evening .
Next morning she was found dead in her suite with a bullet from a
Colt revolver in her brain .
According to the medical examiner , she was shot between eleven p.m. and one a.m. .
Her door was locked and the key was missing .
So was the gun .
When Alec finished reading he was sure that either Forbes or Stacy had killed Diana Beauclerk .
Forbes had motive and Stacy had opportunity .
Find a motive for Stacy or an opportunity for Forbes and the case would be solved .
The Hotel Westmore proved to be one of the older hotels in Pearson City , and definitely second-rate .
Alec's first impression of the lobby was gloomy , Victorian dignity -- black walnut and red plush , a black and white tiled floor , and Persian rugs .
He studied the night clerk as a man measures an adversary .
`` I'd like the room I had the last time '' .
`` Certainly , sir '' .
The clerk was young and limp , with a tired smile .
`` Do you recall the number '' ? ?
`` It was 1105 '' .
The clerk's smile congealed .
`` That suite is taken '' .
Alec's glance went to a chart of guest names and room numbers hanging on the wall behind the clerk .
Opposite the number 1105 stood one word : Unoccupied .
The clerk's glance followed Alec's .
`` We have better rooms vacant now '' , he babbled .
`` Larger and more comfortable .
At the same rate '' .
Alec's face was dark , blunt , and sulky .
He always looked impertinent and he could look dangerous .
He was looking dangerous now .
He raised his voice .
`` Anything wrong with the plumbing in 1105 '' ? ?
There was a sudden stillness in the lobby .
Two women , who had been chattering like parrots , were struck dumb .
A man , lighting a match for his cigar , paused until the flame burned his fingers .
Even the bellboys on their bench were listening .
The clerk's eyes flickered .
`` Of course not '' ! !
`` Anybody with a contagious disease been in there '' ? ?
`` No '' ! !
The clerk was almost hysterical .
`` It's just that -- well , 1105 is being redecorated '' .
`` I don't believe it '' .
Alec leaned on the desk , holding the clerk's eyes with his .
`` Suppose you tell me the real reason '' , he drawled .
`` There might be a story in it '' .
`` St-story '' ? ?
`` I'm with the Syndicated Press , Feature Service .
Either I get the story -- or I get the suite '' .
It was blackmail and the clerk knew it .
`` There is no story '' , he piped tremulously .
`` Front ! !
Show this gentleman to 1105 '' ! !
The stillness persisted as Alec followed a bellboy across the lobby to the elevator .
He could feel eyes on his back .
He wished it had not been necessary to announce the number of his suite quite so publicly .
The corridor on the eleventh floor was dimly lighted by electric globes at intervals of thirty feet .
A thick , crimson carpet muffled every footfall .
At the end of the corridor Alec noticed a door marked : Fire Stairs .
It was a neat setup for murder .
The bellboy unlocked a white door numbered 1105 .
The room was dark but a neon sign flashed and faded beyond the window .
A few snowflakes sifted down through that theatrical red glow , languid as falling feathers .
Hastily the boy switched on a ceiling light .
The room looked normal and even commonplace .
There was no hint of a violent struggle now .
Deal furniture with a mahogany finish was neatly arranged as if it stood in the window of a department store .
The blue rug was suspiciously bright and new .
It had never been stained with blood .
Table covers and towels were clean , ashtrays empty and supplied with fresh matches .
The mirror over the bureau was a blank eye , round and innocent .
Alec played the part of an innocent tourist .
`` Is there anything wrong with this room '' ? ?
`` N-no '' .
The boy dropped his eyes .
`` Afraid you'll lose your job if you don't keep your mouth shut '' ? ?
The boy raised his eyes .
`` Listen , mister .
If you want my advice , pack up and take the next train back to New York '' .
`` Were you on duty here two weeks ago '' ? ?
The boy hesitated .
Then , `` I'm not talking .
But I wouldn't spend a night in here for a million bucks '' ! !
He was in a hurry to get out of the room .
Alec gave him a tip and let him go .
Alone , Alec examined the doors .
There were three -- one leading to a bathroom , one to the hall , and one to the room next door which was immovable -- locked or bolted on the other side .
Alec locked the hall door and put the key with his watch on the bedside table .
It was just quarter of nine .
As he ranged his belongings on the bureau he noticed a film of white dust on the dark surface of the wood beyond the linen cover .
Not gray like the dust that collects in an unused room , but white .
Women didn't use white face powder nowadays , he recalled .
They used pink , tan , or cream powder .
Alec glanced into the bathroom .
Blood in the bathtub where the murderer appears to have washed his hands .
It seemed clean now , but Alec decided against a bath .
He crawled into bed and switched off the light .
In the darkness he could see the rosy reflection of the neon sign on the wall opposite the window .
It winked as steadily as a metronome -- on , off -- on , off .
In less than five minutes Alec was asleep .
He never knew just what woke him .
Yet suddenly he was wide-awake .
There was no sound and apparently no movement in the room except the noiseless pulsation of the red light on the wall .
He lay still , listening to the silence , watching the light .
Somewhere in the city a big clock sounded twelve solemn notes -- midnight .
According to the medical examiner she was shot between eleven p.m. and one a.m. .
Alec heard a faint sound .
His heart seemed to swell and knock against the wall of his chest .
For the sound was inside the room .
He let his eyelids droop and breathed heavily , feigning sleep .
The sound was coming nearer .
A monstrous shadow fell across the illuminated wall , distorted and indefinable .
When the neon sign faded out , the shadow disappeared .
When the neon sign flashed on , the shadow was still there .
It stretched to an impossible height , climbing the wall to the ceiling .
That meant that something between the light and its reflection on the wall was moving closer to the source of the light -- in this case , the window .
Cautiously Alec tensed his muscles , ready to jump .
The bedsprings betrayed him with a creak .
The shadow vanished .
Someone had moved beyond the range of the light from the window .
Abandoning caution , Alec leaped out of bed and groped for the light switch .
Before he could snap it on , a stinging blow caught him in the ribs .
He lashed out blindly with his right .
There was a thick , squashy crack of fist on flesh .
Something hard grazed his knuckles .
He put everything he had into the next and aimed down where the stomach ought to be .
Rough cloth rasped his fist .
There was a grunt , curiously inarticulate , like that of an animal in pain .
Something heavy shook the floor as it dropped .
Alec waited a moment , on guard .
Nothing happened .
Again he groped for the light switch .
The blue rug had been rolled up and stacked in one corner of the room .
On the bare floorboards a man lay face down .
He had a short , heavy , powerful body .
Alec turned him over and discovered a round , lumpy face with narrow , slanting eyes -- a primitive Tartar face from Russia or the Balkans .
The man's shoes were too pointed , his overcoat too broad at the shoulders and too narrow at the waist .
There was a slight bulge under the left armpit -- a shoulder holster .
Alec promptly removed the gun .
He was familiar with this type .
He had seen it in the lineup at Police Headquarters in New York , in Broadway night clubs and Seventh Avenue pool rooms , in the criminal courts .
But he was surprised to meet it here .
Diana Beauclerk had no connection with the underworld .
A professional gunman would not have killed her with a weapon of such small caliber as a
.
Nor would he choose a respectable hotel as the scene for a killing when it would be so much safer to take his victim for a one-way ride on a lonely country road .
The man's eyelids fluttered .
He opened his eyes .
`` What are you doing here '' ? ?
Demanded Alec .
The man made no reply .
His eyes were dazed .
His lips were bruised and swollen where Alec had hit him .
`` Did you kill Diana Beauclerk '' ? ?
Alec expected an indignant denial , but there was no response at all .
`` Oh , come on , snap out of it ! !
Or I'll turn you over to the police '' ! !
The silence was getting on Alec's nerves .
The man opened his mouth , but no words came .
Only that curious , animal grunting Alec had heard during their fight .
`` Don't you speak English '' ? ?
The man opened his mouth wider .
A forefinger pointed toward his gullet .
Alec leaned forward to look .
There were hideous scars inside the throat and the palate was mutilated .
In good time I shall get to the distressing actuality , to Red McIver and Handley Walker , to murder and sudden death .
But you realize , I am sure , how much old deeds incite to new ones , and you must forgive me if I tell you first of the old ones .
It was in 1814 that Abraham Wharf and his sister sat by a meager fire in their house on Dogtown Common , a desolate place even then .
He was sharpening his razor .
`` Sister '' , said he `` do you think people who commit suicide go to heaven '' ? ?
And she answered , `` I don't know , but I hope you'll never do such a thing '' .
Without a tremor , `` God forbid '' ! !
He said , and went out and cut his throat in the cave near Granny Day's swamp .
What has this to do with the present ? ?
Much , I assure you .
You must know what gets into people , even such as Red and Handley , before you can tell what comes out of them .
They had learned , both of them , about Abraham Wharf .
That's why I beg you not to forget him .
His ghost is not laid .
Red and Handley , God help them , knew the old Dogtown lore ; ;
and I knew they knew it , for I'd told them a lot of it .
And isn't it true that you get a deeper perception about a man and his motives when you know what it is he knows ? ?
Yes , gentlemen , I am getting to the point , to my point .
You know the facts ; ;
they are set forth in your own newspapers .
You want from me the story , but a story is about ' why ' and then , perhaps , about how .
The ' when ' you know ; ;
yesterday morning .
So what I am trying to tell you is the ' why ' -- that is my point -- and that concerns the spirit of the matter .
There is an inwardness and a luster to old furniture ( look at that mahogany highboy behind you ) which has a provocative emanation , if I may say so .
Places , too , have their haunting qualities .
Even people .
And my point in this sad story is the spirit of the matter .
When you hold the spirit of a thing , then somehow you know the truth -- you know a fake antique from the real thing .
And the truth is what you've come for , is it not ? ?
Now , Dogtown is one of those places that creeps into the marrow as worms get into old wood , under the veneer .
In fact , all the folk who lived on the back of Cape Ann , they are not just like others .
There's a different hall-mark on them .
There were no witch burnings here because everyone had a witch in the family .
Just think of old Granther Stannard who pulled the teeth of Dark Younger ( her real name was Dorcas ) , and because he bungled the job and left two protruding tusks she put such a hex on him that he thought his legs were made of glass .
After that he was never known to run or even walk fast .
Today Dogtown is the only deserted village in all New England that I know of .
There it sits , a small highland , with towns like Gloucester near by ; ;
but now it's the most lost and tortured place in the world .
Those who lived in that desolation of rocky deformity took on some of the moraine's stony character .
Scientists say it is the last spewings of a great glacier , but one rather feels that only a malevolent giant could have piled up those crouching monsters of granite which still seem to preserve a sort of suspended , ominous life in them .
We'll walk up there later .
It's perhaps a mile from here where we sit .
And not one single dwelling left there , though once , in the early eighteenth century , there were close to a hundred houses .
( I myself have identified about sixty sites , from the old maps and registers .
A fascinating pursuit , I assure you .
) Even I can remember nothing but ruined cellars and tumbled pillars , and nobody has lived there in the memory of any living man .
It is now a sweep of boulders and ledges , with oak , walnut and sumac creeping across the common , and everywhere the ruins and the long , long shadows .
That's your setting , and a sinister one .
Please get that in your reports .
It accounts for so many things .
Both Red McIver and Handley Walker lived nearby , almost as near as I do .
Red lived at Lanesville , and from his house he could be up on the Common in a half hour's brisk walk ; ;
Handley lived further on , at Pigeon Cove .
I'd often find one or other of them up around Dogtown sketching .
They were both painters , ( They were ? ?
They are ? ?
What should one say ? ?
) Well , anyhow , Dogtown Common is so much off the beaten track nowadays that only Sunday picnickers still stray up there , from time to time .
Sea-road , railroad , lack of water , killed Dogtown .
Dead , dead as a brass door nail , and I sometimes feel like the Sexton , for I'm about the last to be even interested .
I knew Red and Handley well .
As I said , they were both painters .
They'd come , separately , to Gloucester some twenty years ago -- there's always been an artists' colony somewhere on Cape Ann -- and each married here .
They married cousins , Anta and Freya Norberg .
There are a lot of Scandinavians in this neck of the woods , and many still make painted furniture and take steam-baths .
Pretty girls among them , with blonde hair and pert faces .
Handley married Freya and Red , of the red beard , married Anta .
And it was because of an old Norberg inheritance that I got to understand them all so well .
The quarrel ended in a ridiculous draw , but I must tell you about it .
Oh , yes , I'm quite sure it's important , because of the Beech Pasture .
What's that ? ?
Why , that's what gave me the feeling , gave me as-it-were the spirit , the demoniac , evil spirit of this whole affair .
You see , besides being custodian of antiquities , I am also registrar .
No , I don't hold with those who live entirely among dead things .
I know as well as the next man that a ship is called from the rigging she carries , where the live wind blows , and not from the hull .
But you've got to know both .
What's below the water-line interests me also .
As I was saying , I've known all about the old records , including the old Norberg deed .
Some ten years ago that page was torn out , I don't know by whom .
About five years ago , Handley came to ask me if he could see the tattered register .
He was courteous and casual about it , as though it were of no consequence .
He's always like that , in spite of being a big man .
( When you see him , you'll notice his habit of fingering , I might almost say , stroking a large mole with black hairs on it , by his right temple .
) A sensual man , but very courteous , some would say slick .
Like his glossy black hair .
Too many outside manners , to my taste .
He is the sort who , with an appraising eye , would cross the street to help a strange woman on to a bus and then pinch her .
A real gentleman , I feel , would do neither .
He's always worn a broad-brimmed hat , and I've noticed , in my small study at the Society , that he rather smells of cosmetics .
The next week , cousin Red wandered in as casually , but curt and untidy .
Red was small and fine-boned , like ivory-inlay .
He too asked to see the same page .
When I told him someone had torn it out , he shouted .
`` By God , it's that damn Handley , the sneak '' ! !
And later in the same week they both came together to examine the register .
Fortunately we were alone in the building -- so few people nowadays are interested even in their own past or in the lovely craft of other days -- for they began to abuse each other in the foulest language .
Red thrusting out his tawny beard , Handley glowering under his suddenly rumpled black hair .
They actually bristled .
Le rouge et le noir .
Violent men both .
Red always was morose , yet that day the dapper Handley was the louder of the two .
But for my presence , they would have been at each others' throats .
During the quarrel I learned what the trouble was , from the accusations each hurled at the other .
The Beech Pasture had suddenly become valuable .
There's a fine granite quarry there , and granite's coming back for public buildings .
Both men knew it was in the Norberg family holdings , but to which of the cousins did it belong , Anta or Freya ? ?
Fortunately , I knew almost exactly what the will had said .
It began with a preamble , of course .
This explained that the judge of probate of Essex County , 1785 or 1786 , appointed three free-holders of Gloucester to divide and establish the Norberg estate .
After the usual Honorable Sirs , it went on to say that there had been set off to the widow one full third part of the real estate of the deceased Salu Norberg , one lower room , on the Western side , privileges to the well and bake-oven and to one third of the cellar ( I can show you the cellar when we go up ) , also one Cow Right , and lastly they set off to the widow her own land that she brought with her as dower , namely the Beech Pasture .
And I remember that the whole of the privileges , not counting the Beech Pasture , was valued at twenty pounds .
I wish you could have seen the crests fall on these two sparring coxcombs when I told them that obviously the pasture belonged to their wives jointly .
That battle scene , ridiculous as it was , remained in my mind .
A disturbing picture of bad blood , to be further heightened with illicit if buccolic colors , for on a subsequent day I saw Handley escorting Anta , Red's wife , up on Dogtown Common .
I felt it would be inopportune to disclose my presence .
Not that I intentionally go unperceived , but the boulders up there are very high and I am a small woman .
One other cause of jealousy between them I must tell you .
Paint ! !
Gloomy and unkempt as Red McIver was , he was much the better painter .
I suppose Handley knew it .
If Red had a show at Gloucester , Handley would hurry to hang his pictures in Rockport .
You may say this has little pertinence , but , gentlemen , remember that all this prepared my mind , alerted my intelligence .
By such touches the pattern takes shape .
You would call these the motives of crime .
I would call them the patterns of life , perhaps even the designs of destiny .
Yet with all this knowledge I had nothing of substance to unravel our case , as you would call it , till yesterday .
One month ago , on the 20th of October , was the opening of the gunning season in Massachusetts .
Not much to shoot , but there are a few pheasant .
Rabbits , too , if you care for them , which most of the folk around here haven't the sense to appreciate .
Any more than they have the sense to eat mussels .
That was the day Red was said to have gone away .
Oh yes , he'd talked about doing so .
In fact , he often disappeared , from time to time , -- off to paint the sea , aboard a dragger out from Gloucester .
Anta , his wife , never seemed to mind .
I suppose these absences gave her more clearance for her embraces with Cousin Handley .
Anyhow , I wasn't surprised , early that morning , to see Handley himself crossing from Dogtown Common Road to the Back Road .
No , he didn't have his gun , which he should have .
It would have been a good excuse for his being there at all .
I myself had been up there by seven o'clock , after mushrooms , since there'd been a week of rain which had stopped early that morning and the day was as clear as Sandwich glass .
That's what the man had said .
Haney peered doubtfully at his drinking companion through bleary , tear-filled eyes .
He had no ready answer , as much from surprise as from the fit of coughing .
Was the man drunk or crazy or both ? ?
But his new-found buddy had matched him drink for drink until he lost count , and the man's eyes were still clear .
The guy is off his rocker , Haney thought to himself , and looked away from those eyes .
Eyes that were clear , but also bright with a strange intensity , a sort of cold fire burning behind them .
Why hadn't he noticed it before ? ?
No , the man was not drunk
He wondered how he got tied up with this stranger .
But , of course , he remembered now .
It was blurred , after two hours of steady drinking , but the occasion of it came back to him .
The stranger , his head seemingly sunk in thought , started to cross the street against the light just as a huge moving van roared through the intersection .
Brakes howled and a horn blared furiously , but the man would have been hit if Phil hadn't called out to him a second before .
His shout had been involuntary , something anybody might have done without thinking , on the spur of the moment .
As a matter of fact , he wouldn't have cared at all if the guy had been hit .
Actually , he regretted having opened his mouth when the truck came to a stop and the angry driver jumped down from the cab and walked back toward them .
By then , the stranger was thanking Haney profusely and had one arm around his shoulders as if he were an old friend .
So the driver started to curse at both of them as if they had been in a plot together to ruin his safe-driving record .
Then the man he saved turned and looked squarely into the truck driver's face , without saying a word .
Very suddenly , the driver stopped swearing at them , turned on his heel and went back to his truck .
Haney hadn't given it much thought at the time .
Now he recalled it very clearly , and wondered what the truck driver had seen in those eyes to make him back off .
It must have been the sort of look that can call a bluff without saying a word .
When the light went their way , they went on across the street .
And when the stranger found out that Phil was on the way to one of his favorite bars , he insisted on offering to buy drinks for both of them .
Phil usually went alone and kept to himself , sitting in a corner and passing the time by nursing his favorite grudges .
But he decided he wouldn't mind company in return for free drinks , even though he made good money at his job .
Phil was like that .
Now he wondered if it was worth it , having a screwball for company .
He really didn't take the offer seriously , but he began to feel uneasy .
When he finally got the coughing under control , he realized that Pete ( all he gave was his first name ) was still waiting for an answer -- he didn't even seem to wink as he continued to stare .
Haney managed a weak laugh .
`` Guess I can't think of anyone , Pete .
Thanks anyhow '' .
A faint crease appeared between the man's eyebrows .
`` I think you aren't taking me seriously , Phil .
I meant it .
And everybody has some kind of grudge .
I might have got hit by that truck if it wasn't for you .
I believe in returning favors .
I'll do anything for somebody I like .
It won't cost you a cent , Phil .
Go ahead and try me '' ! !
Phil rubbed his forehead wearily .
He was beginning to feel woolly .
Maybe it would be better to humor the guy and then make an exit .
He really didn't expect anything to come of it , and there were a few people
`` All right '' , he conceded finally , `` if you must know , I don't get along with the landlord .
He keeps riding me because I like to listen to the radio and sing while I'm taking a bath .
He says the neighbors complain , but I don't believe it .
Why don't they tell me themselves if it bothers them '' ? ?
The man closed his eyes and nodded .
When he looked up again , he seemed almost contented .
`` Fine .
Give me your address .
It will take a little time .
