The best course is to recover his physical excitement by a change of pace that makes him ardent again .
This may require imagination and reminding himself that now he can be demanding and self-centered .
He can take security from the fact that the progress he has made by his gentle approach will not be lost .
Now while he uses talk , caresses or requires caresses from her , his bride will sympathetically understand the situation and eagerly help him restore his physical situation so they can have the consummation they both so eagerly desire .
A final word .
The accumulated information on this point shows that first intercourse , even when it is achieved with minimum pain or difficulty , is seldom an overwhelming sexual experience to a woman .
Too many new things are happening for it to be a complete erotic fulfillment .
Only under rare circumstances would a bride experience an orgasm during her first intercourse .
Both man and wife should be aware of the fact that a lack of climax , and even the absence of the anticipated keen pleasure are not a sign that the wife may be cold or frigid .
If the early approaches are wise , understanding and patient , the satisfactions of marital fulfillment will probably be discovered before the marriage is much older .
Writing in a large volume on the nude in painting and sculptures , titled The Nude : A Study In Ideal Form , Kenneth Clark declares : `` The human body , as a nucleus , is rich in associations .
It is ourselves and arouses memories of all the things we wish to do with ourselves '' .
Perhaps this is a clue to the amazing variety and power of reactions , attitudes , and emotions precipitated by the nude form .
The wide divergence of reactions is clearly illustrated in the Kinsey studies in human sexuality .
Differences were related to social , economic , and educational backgrounds .
Whereas persons of eighth grade education or less were more apt to avoid or be shocked by nudity , those educated beyond the eighth grade increasingly welcomed and approved nudity in sexual relations .
Such understanding helps to explain why one matron celebrating thirty-five years of married life could declare with some pride that her husband had `` never seen her entirely naked '' , while another woman , boasting an equal number of years of married life , is proud of having `` shared the nudist way of life -- the really free , natural nude life -- for most of that period '' .
Attempts at censorship always involve and reveal such complex and multiple individual reactions .
The indignant crusader sees the nude or semi-nude human form as `` lewd and pornographic , a threat and danger '' to all the young , or good , or religious , or moral persons .
The equally ardent proponent of freedom from any kind of censorship may find the nude human form the `` natural , honest , free expression of man's spirit and the epitome of beauty and inspiration '' .
One is always a little surprised to bump into such individual distinctions when it is unexpected .
I still recall the mild shock I experienced in reading material of an enthusiastic advocate of the `` clean , healthful , free way of natural life in nudism '' , who seemed to brave much misunderstanding and persecution in fine spirit .
In tradition and in poetry , the marriage bed is a place of unity and harmony .
The partners each bring to it unselfish love , and each takes away an equal share of pleasure and joy .
At its most ecstatic moments , husband and wife are elevated far above worldly cares .
Everything else is closed away .
This is the ideal .
But marriage experts say that such mutual contribution and mutual joy are seldom achieved .
Instead one partner or the other dominates the sexual relationship .
In the past , it has been the husband who has been dominant and the wife passive .
But today there are signs that these roles are being reversed .
In a growing number of American homes , marriage counselors report , the wife is taking a commanding role in sexual relationships .
It is she who decides the time , the place , the surroundings , and the frequency of the sexual act .
It is she who says aye or nay to the intimate questions of sexual technique and mechanics -- not the husband .
The whole act is tailored to her pleasure , and not to theirs .
Beyond a certain point , of course , no woman can be dominant -- nature has seen to that .
But there is little doubt that in many marriages the wife is boss of the marital bed .
Of course , there remain many `` old-fashioned '' marriages in which the husband maintains his supremacy .
Yet even in these marriages , psychologists say , wives are asserting themselves more strongly .
The meekest , most submissive wife of today is a tiger by her mother's or grandmother's standards .
To many experts , this trend was inevitable .
They consider it simply a sign of our times .
Our society has `` emancipated '' the woman , giving her new independence and new authority .
It is only natural that she assert herself in the sexual role .
`` The sexual relationship does not exist in a vacuum '' , declares Dr. Mary Steichen Calderone , medical director of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and author of the recent book , Release From Sexual Tensions .
`` It reflects what is going on in other areas of the marriage and in society itself .
A world in which wives have taken a more active role is likely to produce sexual relationships in which wives are more self-assertive , too '' .
Yet many psychologists and marriage counselors agree that domination of the sex relationship by one partner or the other can be unhealthy and even dangerous .
It can , in fact , wreck a marriage .
When a husband is sexually selfish and heedless of his wife's desires , she is cheated of the fulfillment and pleasure nature intended for her .
And she begins to regard him as savage , bestial and unworthy .
On the other hand , wifely supremacy demeans the husband , saps his self-respect , and robs him of his masculinity .
He is a target of ridicule to his wife , and often -- since private affairs rarely remain private -- to the outside world as well .
`` A marriage can survive almost any kind of stress except an open and direct challenge to the husband's maleness '' , declares Dr. Calderone .
This opinion is supported by one of the nation's leading psychiatrists , Dr. Maurice E. Linden , director of the Mental Health Division of the Philadelphia Department of Public Health .
`` When the roles of husband and wife are reversed , so that the wife becomes leader and the husband follower '' , Dr. Linden says , `` the effects on their whole relationship , sexual and otherwise , can be disastrous '' .
In one extreme case , cited by a Pittsburgh psychologist , an office worker's wife refused to have sexual relations with her husband unless he bought her the luxuries she demanded .
To win her favors , her husband first took an additional job , then desperately began to embezzle from his employer .
Caught at last , he was sentenced to prison .
While he was in custody his wife divorced him .
More typical is the case of a suburban Long Island housewife described by a marriage counselor .
This woman repeatedly complained she was `` too tired '' for marital relations .
To please her , her husband assumed some of the domestic chores .
Finally , he was cooking , washing dishes , bathing the children , and even ironing -- and still his wife refused to have relations as often as he desired them .
One wife , described by a New York psychologist , so dominated her husband that she actually placed their sexual relationship on a schedule , writing it down right between the weekly PTA meetings and the Thursday-night neighborhood card parties .
Another put sex on a dollars-and-cents basis .
After every money argument , she rebuffed her husband's overtures until the matter was settled in her favor .
Experts say the partners in marriages like these can almost be typed .
The wife is likely to be young , sophisticated , smart as a whip -- often a girl who has sacrificed a promising career for marriage .
She knows the power of the sex urge and how to use it to manipulate her husband .
The husband is usually a well-educated professional , preoccupied with his job -- often an organization man whose motto for getting ahead is : `` Don't rock the boat '' .
Sometimes this leads to his becoming demandingly dominant in marriage .
Hemmed in on the job and unable to assert himself , he uses the sex act so he can be supreme in at least one area .
More often , though , he is so accustomed to submitting to authority on the job without argument that he lives by the same rule at home .
Some psychologists , in fact , suggest that career-bound husbands often are more to blame for topsy-turvy marriages than their wives .
The wife's attempt at control , these psychologists contend , is sometimes merely a pathetic effort to compel her husband to pay as much attention to her as he does to his job .
Naturally no woman can ever completely monopolize the sexual initiative .
Unless her husband also desires sex , the act cannot be consummated .
Generally , however , in such marriages as those cited , the husband is at his wife's mercy .
`` The pattern '' , says Dr. Morton Schillinger , psychologist at New York's Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy , `` is for the husband to hover about anxiously and eagerly , virtually trembling in his hope that she will flash him the signal that tonight is the night '' .
No one seriously contends , of course , that the domineering wife is , sexually speaking , a new character in our world .
After all , the henpecked husband with his shrewish wife is a comic figure of long standing , in literature and on the stage , as Dr. Schillinger points out .
There is no evidence that these Milquetoasts became suddenly emboldened when they crossed the threshhold of the master bedroom .
Furthermore , Dr. Calderone says , a certain number of docile , retiring men always have been around .
They aren't `` frigid '' and they aren't homosexual ; ;
they're just restrained in all of life .
They like to be dominated .
One such man once confided to Dr. Theodor Reik , New York psychiatrist , that he preferred to have his wife the sexual aggressor .
Asked why , he replied primly : `` Because that's no activity for a gentleman '' .
But such cases were , in the past , unusual .
Society here and abroad has been built around the dominating male -- even the Bible appears to endorse the concept .
Family survival on our own Western frontier , for example , could quite literally depend on a man's strength and ability to bring home the bacon ; ;
and the dependent wife seldom questioned his judgment about anything , including the marriage bed .
This carried over into the more urbanized late 19th and early 20th centuries , when the man ruled the roost in the best bull-roaring Life With Father manner .
In those days , a wife had mighty few rights in the domestic sphere and even fewer in the sexual sphere .
`` Grandma wasn't expected to like it '' , Dr. Marion Hilliard , the late Toronto gynecologist , once summed up the attitude of the '90s .
Wives of the period shamefacedly thought of themselves as `` used '' by their husbands -- and , history indicates , they often quite literally were .
When was the turning point ? ?
When did women begin to assert themselves sexually ? ?
Some date it from woman suffrage , others from when women first began to challenge men in the marketplace , still others from the era of the emancipated flapper and bathtub gin .
Virtually everyone agrees , however , that the trend toward female sexual aggressiveness was tremendously accelerated with the postwar rush to the suburbs .
Left alone while her husband was miles away in the city , the modern wife assumed more and more duties normally reserved for the male .
Circumstances gave her almost undisputed sway over child-rearing , money-handling and home maintenance .
She found she could cope with all kinds of problems for which she was once considered too helpless .
She liked this taste of authority and independence , and , with darkness , was not likely to give it up .
`` Very few wives '' , says Dr. Calderone , `` who balance the checkbook , fix the car , choose where the family will live and deal with the tradesmen , are suddenly going to become submissive where sex is concerned .
A woman who dominates other family affairs will dominate the sexual relationship as well '' .
And an additional factor was helping to make women more sexually self-assertive -- the comparatively recent discovery of the true depths of female desire and response .
Marriage manuals and women's magazine articles began to stress the importance of the female climax .
They began to describe in detail the woman's capacity for response .
In fact , the noted psychologist and sex researcher , Dr. Albert Ellis , has declared flatly that women are `` sexually superior '' to men .
According to Dr. Ellis , the average 20-year-old American woman is capable of far greater sexual arousal than her partner .
Not surprisingly , Dr. Ellis says , some recently enlightened wives are out to claim these capabilities .
Yet , paradoxically , according to Dr. Maurice Linden , many wives despise their husbands for not standing up to them .
An aggressive woman wants a man to demand , not knuckle under .
`` When the husband becomes passive in the face of his wife's aggressiveness '' , Dr. Linden says , `` the wife , in turn , finds him inadequate .
Often she fails to gain sexual satisfaction '' .
One such wife , Dr. Linden says , became disgusted with her weak husband and flurried through a series of extramarital affairs in the hope of finding a stronger man .
But her personality was such that each affair lasted only until that lover , too , had been conquered and reduced to passivity .
Then the wife bed-hopped to the next on the list .
In some cases , however , domination of the sex act by one partner can be temporary , triggered by a passing but urgent emotional need .
Thus a man who is butting a stone wall at the office may become unusually aggressive in bed -- the one place he can still be champion .
If his on-the-job problems work out , he may return to his old pattern .
Sometimes a burst of aggressiveness will sweep over a man -- or his wife -- because he or she feels age creeping up .
On the other hand , a husband who always has been vigorous and assertive may suddenly become passive -- asking , psychologists say , for reassurance that his wife still finds him desirable .
Or a wife may make sudden demands that she be courted , flattered or coaxed , simply because she needs her ego lifted .
In any case , Dr. Calderone remarks , such problems are a couple's own affair , and can't always be measured by a general yardstick .
`` As long as the couple is in agreement in their approach to sex , it makes little difference if one or the other dominates '' , Dr. Calderone declares .
`` The important point is that both be satisfied with the adjustment '' .
Other experts say , however , that if sexual domination by one or the other partner exists for longer than a brief period , it is likely to shake the marriage .
And just as domination today often begins with the wife , so the cure generally must lie with the husband .
`` To get a marriage back where it belongs '' , comments Dr. Schillinger of the Lincoln Institute , `` the husband must take some very basic steps .
He must begin , paradoxically , by becoming more selfish .
He must become more expressive of his own desires , more demanding and less ' understanding ' '' .
Too many husbands , Dr. Schillinger continues , worry about `` how well they're doing '' , and fear that their success depends on some trick or technique of sexual play .
She gave herself a title , Lady Diana Harrington .
The New York D.A. gave her another , The Golden Girl of cafe society .
Houston police gave her a third , less flamboyant , title , prostitute .
And Houston police have the final say in the matter since she died there on September 20 , 1960 , `` Diane Harris Graham , 30 , D.O.A. , circumstances -- unusual '' .
Early in her life she had discovered that where there were men , there was money , and with the two came luxury and liquor .
She was still in the play for pay business when she died , a top trollop who had given the world's oldest profession one of its rare flashes of glamour .
She never hid the fact that she liked to play .
Her neighbors in the expensive Houston apartment building told reporters that the ash-blonde beauty had talked at times about her past as `` the Golden Girl of the Mickey Jelke trial '' .
It was the trial of oleomargarine heir Minot ( Mickey ) Jelke for compulsory prostitution in New York that put the spotlight on the international play-girl .
( Jelke later served 21 months when he was found guilty of masterminding a ring of high-priced call girls .
)
Diane was needed as a material witness in the case and New York police searched three continents before they found her in their own back yard -- in a swank hotel , of course .
She had been moving in cafe society as Lady Diana Harrington , a name that made some of the gossip columns .
It was when she was seized as a material witness that she got the designation she liked best .
Clad in mink and diamonds , she listened to Assistant District Attorney Anthony Liebler describe her to the arraigning judge :
`` This girl is the Golden Girl of cafe society .
`` In 1951 she was a prostitute in New York County .
In the spring and early summer of that year she met a wealthy foreign tycoon who took her to France , where she later met a very wealthy man and toured all Europe with him .
`` At Deauville she met an Egyptian by the name of Pulley Bey .
He was the official procurer for King Farouk , now in exile .
She was in Egypt during the revolution and had passport difficulty .
She lied in order to get it .
`` We have checked her in different parts of Europe and Egypt and finally back into this country .
She has been acting as a prostitute .
`` Our information is that she gave the proceeds of her acts to Jelke '' .
Diane sobbingly denied this to the court .
`` That's a lie .
I never gave that boy a cent .
I am not a prostitute , and I had only one very wealthy boy friend '' , she said .
During the course of the trial , Jelke backed up part of that statement .
`` Diane is the type of girl '' , Jelke said , `` who wouldn't get loving -- even on her wedding night -- unless you piled up all your money in the middle of the floor '' .
But she seemed to have underestimated the number of her `` boy friends '' .
She came to New York from Detroit as a teenager , but with a `` sponsor '' instead of a chaperone .
As she told it , `` He's a rich boy friend , an old guy about 60 '' .
She was Mary Lou Brew then , wide-eyed , but not naive .
She had talked her `` boy friend '' into sending her to New York to take a screen test .
The screen test was never made -- but Diane was .
She quickly moved into cafe society , possibly easing her conscience by talking constantly of her desire to be in show business .
She seemed so anxious to go on the stage that some of her friends in the cocktail circuit set up a practical joke .
An ex-fighter was introduced to her in a bar as `` Mr. Warfield , the famous producer '' .
The phony producer asked her if she would like to be in one of his shows .
`` I'd love to audition for you '' , she gushed .
The audition was held a few minutes later in somebody's apartment .
She thought she had great possibilities in the ballet and wanted to show the eminent producer how well she could dance .
After a few minutes he said , `` I can't use you if you dance like that .
I'd like to see you dance nude '' .
She hastily complied .
Diane loved to dance in the nude , something she was to demonstrate time and again .
She developed another quaint habit .
Even among the fast set in which she was moving , her method for keeping an escort from departing too early was unique .
When the date would try to bid her good-night at the door , she would tell him , `` If you go home now , I'll scream '' .
More often than not he would bow to the inevitable .
One who needed no such threats was a French financier .
One of the blonde's yearnings that he satisfied was for travel .
She wanted to go around the world , but she settled for a French holiday .
In an anonymous interview with a French newspaper the financier told of spending several months with her .
`` Then she went to Deauville where she met a member of a powerful Greek syndicate of gamblers '' .
The Greek evidently fell for her , `` Monsieur X '' recounted , and to clinch what he thought was an affair in the making he gave her 100,000 francs ( about $300 ) and led her to the roulette tables .
She could do no wrong at the tables that time .
And in short order the croupier had pushed several million francs her way .
Smarter than most gamblers , she slipped away from the casino , packed her bag and took the night train to Paris .
No one ever learned what happened to the Greek .
The luxury of Paris' most fashionable hotel , the George 5 , , bored the beautifully-built blonde , so she high-tailed it to Rome .
She teamed up with another beauty , whose name has been lost to history , and commenced with some fiddling that would have made Nero envious .
To climax her Roman revels , she was thrown out of the swanky Hotel Excelsior after she had run naked through its marble halls screaming for help .
It was a rugged finish for what must have been a very interesting night .
Discreet Italian police described it in a manner typically continental .
`` There had been a threesome at the party in the suite's bedroom : Miss Harrington ( this was Diane's choice for a Roman name ) , another woman who has figured in other very interesting events and one of your well-known American actors .
`` The actor had had much to drink and apparently became very violent .
The hotel staff , as well as residents of the Excelsior , told us they saw that both ladies were bleeding from scratches as they were seen fleeing down the hall .
`` They were wearing nothing but their scratches .
They were asked to leave the hotel .
No charges were filed '' .
The girls , after dressing , were indignant .
`` You can't do this to us '' , Diane screamed .
`` We are Americans '' .
In the morning she found rooms directly across from the Excelsior at the equally luxurious Hotel Ambassador .
With the Ambassador as headquarters , she continued to promote good will abroad .
Of course , her benevolence was limited to those who could afford it , but then there is a limit to what one person can do .
By this time Diane was a beguiling lass of 19 and still seeking her place in the world .
She thought royal status might come her way when , while she was still in Rome , she met Pulley Bey , a personal procurer to King Farouk of Egypt .
A close friend of hers in the Roman days described it this way :
`` It was a strange relationship .
Pulley Bey spoke no English .
Diane spoke no Italian or French .
She had a hard time making him understand that it was Farouk she wished to meet .
`` Pulley Bey insisted that she bestow her favors on him '' , the friend continued .
It seemed as though she were always auditioning .
No believer in the traditional devotion of royal servitors , the plump Pulley broke the language barrier and lured her to Cairo where she waited for nine months , vainly hoping to see Farouk .
Pulley had set her up at the Semiramis Hotel , but she grew impatient waiting for a royal reception and moved to a luxurious apartment to which the royal pimp had no key .
She picked her own Middle-Eastern friends from the flock of ardent Egyptians that buzzed around her .
Tewfik Badrawi , Mohammed Gaafer and numerous other wealthy members of Cairo society enjoyed her company .
`` So extensive became her circle of admirers '' , Egyptian police said , `` that her escapades caused distrust '' .
The roof was about ready to fall in on Diane's little world , but it took nothing less than the Egyptian revolution to bring it down .
When Farouk was overthrown , police picked up his personal pimp , Pulley Bey .
They also called upon Diane with a request for a look at her passport .
The cagey Pulley Bey , who spoke no English , had taken the passport so that Diane couldn't leave the country without his approval .
Officials provided a temporary passport , good only for return to the United States .
And return to the United States she did , into waiting arms -- the unromantic ones of the New York District Attorney's office .
Held as a material witness in the compulsory prostitution trial of Mickey Jelke , the comely courtesan was unable to raise bail and was committed to the Women's House of Detention , a terribly overcrowded prison .
It is a tribute to her talents that she was able to talk the District Attorney into having her removed from the prison to a hotel room , with her meals taken at Vesuvio's , an excellent Italian restaurant .
Newspapers at the time noted that the move indicated that she was co-operating with the District Attorney .
With the end of the trial Diane disappeared from New York .
It was no longer fashionable to be seen with fabulous `` Lady Harrington '' .
Several years ago she married a Houston business man , Robert Graham .
She later divorced Graham , who is believed to have moved to Bolivia .
Houston police got to know Diane two years ago when the vice squad picked her up for questioning about a call girl ring .
Last May , they said , she admitted being a prostitute .
The next time the police saw her she was dead .
It was September 20 , 1960 , in a lavishly decorated apartment littered with liquor bottles .
She had had a party with a regular visitor , Dr. William W. McClellan .
McClellan , who had once lost his medical license temporarily on a charge of drug addiction , was with her when she died .
He had been in the apartment two days and was hazy about what had happened during that time .
When he realized she was dead , he called two lawyers and then the police .
When the police arrived , they found McClellan and the two lawyers sitting and staring silently .
The blonde's nude body was in bed , a green sheet and a pink blanket covered her .
Pictures of her in more glamorous days were on the walls .
An autopsy disclosed a large amount of morphine in Diane's body .
Police theorize that a combination of dope , drink and drugs killed her .
`` I think that maybe she wanted it this way '' , a vice squad cop said .
`` A maid told us that she still bragged about getting $50 a date .
She was on the junk , and they slide fast when that happens .
At least she never knew what the bottom was like '' .
I am a carpet salesman .
I work for one of the biggest chains of retail carpet houses in the East .
We cater mostly to nice people in the $5-8,000 annual income bracket and we run a string of snazzy , neon-lit , chromium-plated suburban stores .
I am selling the stuff of which is made one of the Great American Dreams -- wall-to-wall carpeting .
There is only one trouble with this big , beautiful dream .
From where I sit it looks more like a nightmare .
People come to me with confidence .
They depend on my supposedly expert knowledge of a trade of which they themselves know little .
But I knowingly abuse their confidence .
Franklin D. Lee proved a man of prompt action when Mrs. Claire Shaefer , accompanied by a friend , visited him in Bakersfield , California , several months ago as a prospective patient .
`` Doctor '' Lee asked her to lie down on a bed and remove her shoes .
Then , by squeezing her foot three times , he came up -- presto -- with a different diagnosis with each squeeze .
She had -- he informed her -- kidney trouble , liver trouble , and a severe female disorder .
( He explained that he could diagnose these ailments from squeezing her foot because all of the nervous system was connected to it .
) He knew just the thing for her -- a treatment from his `` cosmic light ozone generator '' machine .
As he applied the applicator extending from the machine -- which consisted of seven differently colored neon tubes superimposed on a rectangular base -- to the supposedly diseased portions of Mrs. Shaefer's body , Lee kept up a steady stream of pseudo-scientific mumbo-jumbo .
Yes , the ozone from his machine would cure practically everything , he assured her .
Did she know , he asked , why the colors of the tubes were important to people's health ? ?
The human body -- he pointed out , for example -- required 33 units of blue light .
For that reason , he informed her , the Lord made the sky blue .
Continuing glibly in this vein , he paused to comfort her :
`` Don't you worry .
This machine will cure your cancer-ridden body '' .
`` Cancer '' ! !
Mrs. Shaefer practically shrieked .
`` You didn't tell me I had cancer '' .
`` You have it , all right .
But as long as you can have treatment from my machine you have nothing to worry about .
Why , I once used this machine to cure a woman with 97 pounds of cancer in her body '' .
He urged her to buy one of his machines -- for $300 .
When she said that she didn't have the money , he said that she could come in for treatment with his office model until she was ready to buy one .
He then sold her minerals to cure her kidney ailment , a can of sage `` to make her look like a girl again '' , and an application of plain mud to take her wrinkles away .
Lee renewed his pressure on Mrs. Shaefer to buy his machine when she visited him the next day .
After another treatment with the machine , he told her that `` her entire body was shot through with tumors and cysts '' .
He then sold her some capsules that he asserted would take care of the tumors and cysts until she could collect the money for buying his machine .
When she submitted to his treatment with the capsules , Mrs. Shaefer felt intense pain .
Leaving Lee's office , Mrs. Shaefer hurried over to her family physician , who treated her for burned tissue .
For several days , she was ill as a result of Lee's treatment .
Mrs. Shaefer never got around to joining the thousand or so people who paid Lee some $30,000 for his ozone machines .
For Mrs. Shaefer -- who had been given a clean bill of health by her own physician at the time she visited Lee -- and her friend were agents for the California Pure Food and Drug Inspection Bureau .
And she felt amply rewarded for her suffering when the evidence of Lee's quack shenanigans , gathered by the tape recorder under her friend's clothing , proved adequate in court for convicting Franklin D. Lee .
The charge : violation of the California Medical Practices Act by practicing medicine without a license and selling misbranded drugs .
The sentence : 360 days' confinement in the county jail .
An isolated case of quackery ? ?
By no means .
Rather , it is typical of the thousands of quacks who use phony therapeutic devices to fatten themselves on the miseries of hundreds of thousands of Americans by robbing them of millions of dollars and luring them away from legitimate , ethical medical treatment of serious diseases .
The machine quack makes his Rube Goldberg devices out of odds and ends of metals , wires , and radio parts .
With these gadgets -- impressive to the gullible because of their flashing light bulbs , ticks , and buzzes -- he then carries out a vicious medical con game , capitalizing on people's respect for the electrical and atomic wonders of our scientific age .
He milks the latest scientific advances , translating them into his own special Buck Rogers vocabulary to huckster his fake machines as a cure-all for everything from hay fever to sexual impotence and cancer .
The gadget faker operates or sells his phony machines for $5 to $10,000 -- anything the traffic will bear .
He may call himself a anaprapath , a physiotherapist , an electrotherapist , a naturopath , a sanipractor , a medical cultist , a masseur , a `` doctor '' -- or what have you .
Not only do these quacks assume impressive titles , but represent themselves as being associated with various scientific or impressive foundations -- foundations which often have little more than a letterhead existence .
The medical device pirate of today , of course , is a far more sophisticated operator than his predecessor of yesteryear -- the gallus-snapping hawker of snake oil and other patent medicines .
His plunder is therefore far higher -- running into hundreds of millions .
According to the Food And Drug Administration ( FDA ) , `` Doctor '' Ghadiali , Dr. Albert Abrams and his clique , and Dr. Wilhelm Reich -- to name three notorious device quacks -- succeeded , respectively , in distributing 10,000 , 5000 , and 2000 fake health machines .
Authorities believe that many of the Doctor Frauds using these false health gadgets are still in business .
Look at the sums paid by two device quack victims in Cleveland .
Sarah Gross , a dress shop proprietor , paid $1020 to a masseur , and Mr. A. , a laborer , paid $4200 to a chiropractor for treatment with two fake health machines -- the `` radioclast '' and the `` diagnometer '' .
Multiply these figures by the millions of people known to be conned by medical pirates annually .
You will come up with a frightening total .
That's why the FDA , the American Medical Association ( AMA ) , and the National Better Business Bureau ( BBB ) have estimated the toll of mechanical quackery to be a substantial portion of the $610 million or so paid to medical charlatans annually .
The Postmaster General recently reported that mail order frauds -- among which fake therapeutic devices figure prominently -- are at the highest level in history .
Similarly , the American Cancer Society ( ACS ) , the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation , and the BBB have each stated lately that medical quackery is at a new high .
For example , the BBB has reported it was receiving four times as many inquiries about quack devices and 10 times as many complaints compared with two years ago .
Authorities hesitate to quote exact figures , however , believing that any sum they come up with is only a surface manifestation -- turned up by their inevitably limited policing -- of the real loot of the medical racketeer .
In this sense , authorities believe that all estimates of phony device quackery are conservative .
The economic toll that the device quack extracts is important , of course .
But it is our health -- more precious than all the money in the world -- that these modern witch doctors with their fake therapeutic gadgets are gambling away .
By preying on the sick , by playing callously on the hopes of the desperate , by causing the sufferer to delay proper medical care , these medical ghouls create pain and misery by their very activity .
Typically , Sarah Gross and Mr. A both lost more than their money as the result of their experiences with their Cleveland quacks .
Sarah Gross found that the treatments given her for a nervous ailment by the masseur were not helping her .
As a result , she consulted medical authorities and learned that the devices her quack `` doctor '' was using were phony .
She suffered a nervous breakdown and had to be institutionalized .
Mr. A. , her fellow townsman , also experienced a nervous breakdown just as soon as he discovered that he had been bilked of his life savings by the limited practitioner who had been treating his wife -- a woman suffering from an incurable disease , multiple sclerosis -- and himself .
Mr. A has recovered , but he is , justifiably , a bitter man .
`` That's a lot of hard-earned money to lose '' , he says today .
`` Neither me nor my wife were helped by that chiropractor's treatments '' .
And there was the case of Tom Hepker , a machinist , who was referred by a friend to a health machine quack who treated him with a so-called diagnostic machine for what Doctor Fraud said was a system full of arsenic and strychnine .
After his pains got worse , Tom decided to see a real doctor , from whom he learned he was suffering from cancer of the lung .
Yes , Tom caught it in time to stay alive .
But he's a welfare case now -- a human wreck -- thanks to this modern witch doctor .
But the machine quack can cause far more than just suffering .
In such diseases as cancer , tuberculosis , and heart disease , early diagnosis and treatment are so vital that the waste of time by the patient with Doctor Fraud's cure-all gadget can prove fatal .
Moreover , the diabetic patient who relies on cure by the quack device and therefore cuts off his insulin intake can be committing suicide .
For instance :
In Chicago , some time ago , Mr. H. , age 27 , a diabetic since he was six , stopped using insulin because he had bought a `` magic spike '' -- a glass tube about the size of a pencil filled with barium chloride worth a small fraction of a cent -- sold by the Vrilium Company of Chicago for $306 as a cure-all .
`` Hang this around your neck or attach it to other parts of your anatomy , and its rays will cure any disease you have '' , said the company .
Mr. H. is dead today because he followed this advice .
Doris Hull , suffering from tuberculosis , was taken by her husband to see Otis G. Carroll , a sanipractor -- a licensed drugless healer -- in Spokane .
Carroll diagnosed Mrs. Hull by taking a drop of blood from her ear and putting it on his `` radionic '' machine and twirling some knobs ( fee $50 ) .
His prescription : hot and cold compresses to increase her absorption of water .
Although she weighed only 108 pounds when she visited him , Carroll permitted her to go on a 10-day fast in which she took nothing but water .
Inevitably , Mrs. Hull died of starvation and tuberculosis , weighing 60 pounds .
Moreover , her husband and child contracted T.B. from her .
( Small wonder a Spokane jury awarded the husband $35,823 for his wife's death .
)
In California , a few years ago , a ghoul by the name of H. F. Bell sold electric blankets as a cure for cancer .
He did this by the charming practice of buying up used electric blankets for $5 to $10 from survivors of patients who had died , reconditioning them , and selling them at $185 each .
When authorities convicted him of practicing medicine without a license ( he got off with a suspended sentence of three years because of his advanced age of 77 ) , one of his victims was not around to testify : He was dead of cancer .
By no means are these isolated cases .
`` Unfortunately '' , says Chief Postal Inspector David H. Stephens , who has prosecuted many device quacks , `` the ghouls who trade on the hopes of the desperately ill often cannot be successfully prosecuted because the patients who are the chief witnesses die before the case is called up in court '' .
Death ! !
Have no doubt about it .
That's where device quackery can lead .
The evidence shows that fake therapeutic machines , substituted for valid medical cures , have hastened the deaths of thousands .
Who are the victims of the device quacks ? ?
Authorities say that oldsters are a prime target .
Says Wallace F. Jannsen , director of the FDA's Division of Public Information : `` Quacks are apt to direct their appeal directly to older people , or to sufferers from chronic ailments such as arthritis , rheumatism , diabetes , and cancer .
People who have not been able to get relief from regular medical doctors are especially apt to be taken in by quacks '' .
The victims of the quacks are frequently poor people , like Mr. A. , who scrape up their life savings to offer as a sacrifice to Doctor Fraud's avarice .
They are often ignorant as well as underprivileged .
Ten-year-old Richard Stewart had been irritable and quarrelsome for almost a year .
His grades had gone steadily downhill , and he had stopped bringing friends and classmates home from school .
Mr. and Mrs. Stewart were puzzled and concerned .
Then one day Dick's classmate Jimmy , from next door , let the cat out of the bag .
The youngsters in the boys' class had nicknamed Dick `` Bugs Bunny '' because his teeth protruded .
When Richard's parents told him they wanted to take him to an orthodontist -- a dentist who specializes in realigning teeth and jaws -- their young son was interested .
During the year that followed , Dick co-operated whole-heartedly with the dentist and was delighted with the final result achieved -- an upper row of strong straight teeth that completely changed his facial appearance .
Richard Stewart is no special case .
`` The majority of children in the United States could benefit by some form of orthodontic treatment '' , says Dr. Allan G. Brodie , professor and head of the department of orthodontics at the University of Illinois and a nationally recognized authority in his field .
What do parents need to know about those `` years of the braces '' in order not to waste a child's time and their money ? ?
How can they tell whether a child needs orthodontic treatment ? ?
Why and when should tooth-straightening be undertaken ? ?
What is it likely to cost ? ?
Tooth fit explained
occlusion is the dentist's expression for the way teeth fit together when the jaws are closed .
Malocclusion , or a bad fit , is what parents need to look out for .
One main type of malocclusion is characterized by a receding chin and protruding upper front teeth .
A chin too prominent in relation to the rest of the face , a thrusting forward of the lower front teeth , an overdeveloped lower jawbone , and an underdeveloped upper jaw indicate the opposite type of malocclusion .
These two basic malformations have , of course , many variations .
A child probably requires some form of treatment if he has any of the following conditions :
A noticeable protrusion of the upper or lower jaw .
Crooked , overlapping , twisted , or widely spaced teeth .
Front teeth not meeting when the back teeth close .
Upper teeth completely covering the lowers when the back teeth close .
The eyeteeth ( third from the middle on top , counting each front tooth as the first ) beginning to protrude like fangs .
Second teeth that have come in before the first ones have fallen out , making a double row .
Contrary to the thinking of 30 to 40 years ago , when all malocclusion was blamed on some unfortunate habit , recent studies show that most tooth irregularity has at least its beginning in hereditary predisposition .
However , this does not mean that a child's teeth or jaws must necessarily resemble those of someone in his family .
Tooth deformity may be the result of excessive thumb- or finger-sucking , tongue-thrusting , or lip-sucking -- but it's important to remember that there's a difference between normal and excessive sucking habits .
It's perfectly normal for babies to suck their thumbs , and no mother need worry if a child continues this habit until he is two or three years old .
Occasional sucking up to the fifth year may not affect a youngster's teeth ; ;
but after that , if thumb-sucking pressure is frequent , it will have an effect .
Malocclusion can also result if baby teeth are lost too soon or retained too long .
If a child loses a molar at the age of two , the adjoining teeth may shift toward the empty space , thus narrowing the place intended for the permanent ones and producing a jumble .
If baby teeth are retained too long , the incoming second teeth may be prevented from emerging at the normal time or may have to erupt in the wrong place .
Correction can save teeth
every orthodontist sees children who are embarrassed by their malformed teeth .
Some such youngsters rarely smile , or they try to speak with the mouth closed .
In certain cases , as in Dick Stewart's , a child's personality is affected .
Yet from the dentist's point of view , bad-fitting teeth should be corrected for physical reasons .
Bad alignment may result in early loss of teeth through a breakdown of the bony structure that supports their roots .
This serious condition , popularly known as pyorrhea , is one of the chief causes of tooth loss in adults .
Then , too , misplaced or jammed-together teeth are prone to trapping food particles , increasing the likelihood of rapid decay .
`` For these and other reasons '' , says Dr. Brodie , `` orthodontics can prolong the life of teeth '' .
The failure of teeth to fit together when closed interferes with normal chewing , so that a child may swallow food whole and put a burden on his digestive system .
Because of these chewing troubles , a child may avoid certain foods he needs for adequate nutrition .
Badly placed teeth can also cause such a speech handicap as lisping .
The when and how of straightening
`` most orthodontic work is done on children between the ages of 10 and 14 , though there have been patients as young as two and as old as 55 '' , says Dr. Brodie .
In the period from 10 to 14 the permanent set of teeth is usually completed , yet the continuing growth of bony tissue makes moving badly placed teeth comparatively easy .
Orthodontic work is possible because teeth are held firmly but not rigidly , by a system of peridontal membrane with an involved nerve network , to the bone in the jaw ; ;
they are not anchored directly to the bone .
Abnormal pressure , applied over a period of time , produces a change in the bony deposit , so a tooth functions normally in the new position into which it has been guided .
What can 10-year-old Susan expect when she enters the orthodontist's office ? ?
On her first visit the orthodontist will take x-rays , photographs , tooth measurements , and `` tooth prints '' -- an impression of the mouth that permits him to study her teeth and jaws .
If he decides to proceed , he will custom-make for Susie an appliance consisting of bands , plastic plates , fine wires , and tiny springs .
This appliance will exert a gentle and continuous or intermittent pressure on the bone .
As the tooth moves , bone cells on the pressure side of it will dissolve , and new ones will form on the side from which the tooth has moved .
This must be done at the rate at which new bony tissue grows , and no faster .
`` If teeth are moved too rapidly , serious injury can be done to their roots as well as to the surrounding bone holding them in place '' , explains Dr. Brodie .
`` Moving one or two teeth can affect the whole system , and an ill-conceived plan of treatment can disrupt the growth pattern of a child's face '' .
During the first few days of wearing the appliance and immediately following each adjustment , Susan may have a slight discomfort or soreness , but after a short time this will disappear .
Parents are often concerned that orthodontic appliances may cause teeth to decay .
When in place , a well-cemented band actually protects the part of the tooth that is covered .
Next Susie will enter the treatment stage and visit the orthodontist once or twice a month , depending on the severity of her condition .
During these visits the dentist will adjust the braces to increase the pressure on her teeth .
Last comes the retention stage .
Susie's teeth have now been guided into a desirable new position .
But because teeth sometimes may drift back to their original position , a retaining appliance is used to lock them in place .
Usually this is a thin band of wire attached to the molars and stretching across the teeth .
Susie may wear this only at night or for a few hours during the day .
Then comes the time when the last wire is removed and Susie walks out a healthier and more attractive girl than when she first went to the orthodontist .
How long will this take ? ?
Straightening one tooth that has come in wrong may take only a few months .
Aligning all the teeth may take a year or more .
An added complication such as a malformed jaw may take two or three years to correct .
What is the cost ? ?
The charge for a complete full-banded job differs in various parts of the country .
Work that might cost $500 to $750 in the South could cost $750 to $1,200 in New York City or Chicago .
An average national figure for two to three years of treatment would be $650 to $1,000 .
`` Factors in the cost of treatment are the length of time involved and the skill and education of the practitioner '' , says Dr. Brodie .
To become an orthodontist , a man must first be licensed by his state as a dentist , then he must spend at least two years in additional training to acquire a license as a specialist .
`` Costs may seem high , but they used to be even higher '' , says Dr. Brodie .
`` Fees are about half to a third of what they were 25 years ago '' .
The reason ? ?
People today are aware of the value of orthodontics , and as a result there are more practitioners in the field .
Most orthodontists require an initial payment to cover the cost of diagnostic materials and construction of the appliances , but usually the remainder of the cost may be spread over a period of months or years .
In many cities in the United States clinics associated with dental schools will take patients at a nominal fee .
Some municipal agencies will pay for orthodontic treatment for children of needy parents .
Research helps families
growth studies have been carried on consistently by orthodontists .
Dr. Brodie has 30-year records of head growth , started 20 minutes after children's births .
`` In the past anyone who said that 90% of all malocclusion is hereditary was scoffed at ; ;
now we know that family characteristics do affect tooth formation to a large extent '' , he says .
`` Fortunately through our growth studies we have been able to see what nature does , and that helps us know what we can do '' .
This knowledge both modifies and dictates diagnosis and treatment .
For example , a boy may inherit a small jaw from one ancestor and large teeth from another .
In the past an orthodontist might have tried , over four or five years , to straighten and fit the boy's large teeth into a jaw that , despite some growth , would never accommodate them .
Now a dentist can recommend extraction immediately .
In other cases , in view of present-day knowledge of head growth , orthodontists will recommend waiting four or five years before treatment .
The child is kept on call , and the orthodontist watches the growth .
`` Nature often takes care of the problem '' , says Dr. Brodie .
`` A child with a certain type of head and teeth will outgrow tooth deformity '' .
That is why Dr. Brodie asks parents not to insist , against their dentist's advice , that their child have orthodontic work done too early .
`` Both because of our culture's stress on beauty and our improved economic conditions , some parents demand that the dentist try to correct a problem before it is wise to do so .
Let the orthodontist decide the proper time to start treatment '' , he urges .
Superior new material for orthodontic work is another result of research .
Plastics are easier to handle than the vulcanized rubber formerly used , and they save time and money .
Plaster of Paris , once utilized in making impressions of teeth , has been replaced by alginates ( gelatin-like material ) that work quickly and accurately and with least discomfort to a child .
Prevention is best
as a rule , the earlier general dental treatment is started , the less expensive and more satisfactory it is likely to be .
`` After your child's baby teeth are all in -- usually at the age of two and one half to three -- it's time for that first dental appointment '' , Dr. Brodie advises .
`` Then see that your youngster has a routine checkup once a year '' .
To help prevent orthodontic problems from arising , your dentist can do these things :
He can correct decay , thus preventing early loss of teeth .
If a child does lose his first teeth prematurely because of decay -- and if no preventive steps are taken -- the other teeth may shift out of position , become overcrowded and malformed .
In turn the other teeth are likely to decay because food particles may become impacted in them .
From time to time the medium mentions other people `` around him '' , who were `` on the other side '' , and reports what they are saying .
After a while there come initials and names , and he is interested to hear some rather unusual family nicknames .
As the hour progresses , the sensitive seems to probe more deeply and to make more personal and specific statements .
There are a few prognoses of coming events .
Another medium , another sitter , would produce a somewhat different content , but in general it would probably sound much like the foregoing reading .
Some mediums speak in practical , down-to-earth terms , while others may stress the spiritual .
Not all , as a matter of fact , consider themselves `` mediums '' in the sense of receiving messages from the deceased .
In fact , some sensitives rule this out , preferring to consider their expression as strictly extra-sensory perception ( ESP ) , on this side of the `` veil '' .
However that may be , people are known to go to mediums for diverse reasons .
Perhaps they are mourning a recent death and want comfort , to feel in touch with the deceased , or seek indications for future plans .
They may , of course , be curiosity seekers -- or they may just be interested in the phenomenon of mediumship .
The mediums with whom the Parapsychology Foundation is working in this experiment are in a waking or only slightly dissociated state , so that the sitter can make comments , ask and answer questions , instead of talking with a `` control '' who speaks through an entranced sensitive .
What we have here is in some ways more like an ordinary conversation .
But it is not really only a conversation .
Many a sitter ( in a personal sitting ) has been amazed to realize that the medium was describing very vividly his state of mind .
He himself might not have been really aware of his own mood ; ;
it had been latent , unspecified , semi-conscious and only partly realized -- until she described it to him ! !
Most striking indeed is this beyond-normal ability to put a finger on `` pre-conscious '' moods and to clarify them .
However , in the next visit that the researcher made to the medium , he did not receive a personal reading .
Instead he brought with him the names of some people he had never met and of whom the medium knew nothing .
For this was to be a `` proxy sitting '' .
As was noted earlier , it is important that in valid , objective study of this sort of communication , the interested sitter should be separated from the sensitive .
Dr. Karlis Osis , Director of Research at the Parapsychology Foundation , described the basis for the experiment in a tomorrow article , ( `` New Research On Survival After Death '' , Spring 1958 ) .
He remarked : `` It has been clearly established that in a number of instances the message did not come from a spirit but was received telepathically by the medium from the sitter '' .
The possibility has to be ruled out that the medium's ESP may tap the memory of the sitter , and to do this , the two central characters in this drama must be separated .
One way to do this is by `` proxy sittings '' , wherein the person seeking a message does not himself meet with the medium but is represented by a substitute , the proxy sitter .
If the latter knows nothing about the absent sitter except his name ( given by the experimenter ) , he cannot possibly give any clues , conscious or unconscious , far less ask leading questions .
All he can do is to be an objective and careful questioner , seeking to help the sensitive in clarifying and making more specific her paranormal impressions .
Sometimes in these experiments `` appointment sittings '' are used .
Here the absent sitter makes a `` date '' with a communicator ( someone close to him who is deceased ) , asking him to `` come in '' at a certain hour , when a channel will be open for him .
In this case the proxy sitter will know only the name of the communicator , nothing else .
He gives this to the medium at the appointed time , and the reading then will be concerned with material about or messages from the communicator .
As always , a tape recording or detailed notes are made , and a typescript of this is sent to the absent sitter .
So this proxy situation has set up at least a partial barrier between the medium's ESP and the absent sitter's mind .
It is now harder to assume telepathy as a basis for the statements -- though research still does not know how far afield ESP can range .
Now the original absent sitter must decide whether the statements are meaningful to him .
Here again laboratory approaches are being evolved , for it is recognized how `` elastic '' these readings can be , how they can apply to many people , and are often stated in general terms all too easily applied to any individual's own case .
If you look at a reading meant for someone else , you will probably see that many of the items could be considered as applicable to you , even when you were not in the picture at all ! !
An interested sitter may think the sensitive has made a `` hit '' , describing something accurately for him , but can he really be sure that another sitter , hearing the same statement , would not apply it subjectively to his own circumstances ? ?
It is , of course , easy to see how `` J '' will mean Uncle Jack to one person and little Jane to another .
`` A journey '' , `` a little white house '' , `` a change of outlook '' , can apply to many people .
And even more complex items can be interpreted to conform to one's own point of view , which is by nature so personal .
One sitter may think `` a leather couch '' identifies a reading as surely directed to him ; ;
to another , it seems that nobody but his father ever used the phrase , `` Atta boy '' ! !
To get around this quite difficult corner , there is one first aid to objectiveness : prevent the distant sitter from knowing which reading was for him .
If he is not told which of four or five readings was meant for him , he can more readily assess each item in a larger frame : `` Does that statement really sound as if it were for me , significant in my particular life ? ?
Or am I taking something that could really apply to almost anybody , and forgetting that many other people probably have had a similar experience '' ? ?
Conversely , experimenters would consider as impressive such statements as the following , which , if they turned out to be hits , are so unusual as to be really significant :
`` He had four children , two sets of twins .
After being a lawyer for twenty-five years he started studying for the ministry .
Part of his house had been moved to the other side of the road .
He died of typhoid in 1921 '' .
Methods have been developed of assigning `` weights '' to statements ; ;
that is , it is known empirically that names beginning with R are more common than those beginning with Z ; ;
that fewer women are named Miranda than Elizabeth ; ;
that in the United States more people die of heart disease than of smallpox .
So each reading can be given a weight and each reading a score by adding up these weights .
Specific dates would be important , as would double names .
Various categories have been explored to find out about these `` empirical probabilities '' against which to measure the readings .
In the parapsychology foundation's long-range experiment , readings are made by a variety of sensitives for a large number of cooperating sitters , trying to throw light on this question of the significance of mediumistic statements .
It is very important indeed , in the field of extra-sensory perception and its relation to the survival hypothesis , to know whether the statements are actually only those which any intuitive person might venture and an eager sitter attach to himself .
Or , on the other hand , are unlikely facts being stated , facts which are in themselves significant and not easily applicable to everybody ? ?
That is one thing the experiments are designed to find out .
So , after the sitting has been held , several readings at one time are mailed , and the distant sitter ( whose name or whose communicator's name was given to the medium ) must mark each little item as Correct ( Hit ) , Incorrect ( Miss ) , Doubtful , or Especially Significant ( applying to him and , he feels , not to anyone else ) .
He is required to mark every item and to indicate which reading he feels is actually his .
All these evaluations are then totted up and tabulated , by adding up the Hits and Significants , with the weight placed on those in the sitter's own reading .
That is , if he marks as most correct a reading not meant for him , the total experimental score falls .
Conversely , if he gives a heavy rating to his own reading , and finds more accurate facts in it than in the others , a point is chalked up for the intrinsic , objective meaningfulness of this type of mediumistic material .
And there are some positive results , though the final findings will not be known for a long time -- and then further research can be formulated .
In another approach to the same procedure , the content of the readings is analyzed so as to see how the particular medium is likely to slant her statements .
Does she often speak of locations , of cause of death ? ?
Does she accurately give dates , ages , kind of occupation ? ?
It is possible to find out in which categories most of her correct statements fall , and where she makes most of her `` hits '' .
Now when , so to speak , the cream has been skimmed off , and the items in the successful categories separated out , the sitter can be asked to consider and rate only this concentrated `` cream '' , where the sensitive is at her best .
Mediumistic impressions are evidently of all sorts and seem to involve all the senses .
`` I feel cold '' , the medium says , or `` My leg aches '' , `` My head is heavy '' .
Or perhaps she hears words or sounds : `` There's such a noise of loud machinery '' , or `` I hear a child crying '' , or `` He says we're all here and glad to see you '' .
Maybe an entire scene comes into consciousness , with action and motion , or a static view : `` a house under a pine tree , with a little stone path going up to the door '' .
The sensitive often seems to smell definite odors , too , or subjectively feels emotions .
Sometimes she displays amazing eidetic imagery and seems to see all details in perspective , as if the scene were actually there .
If pressed by the sitter for more detail , she may be able to bring the picture more into focus and see more sharply , almost as if she were physically going closer .
If asked how she gets her impressions , she probably can only say that she `` just gets them '' -- some more vividly than others .
Perhaps this is not so extraordinary after all .
Even in normal experience one gets impressions without knowing exactly how -- of atmosphere , of one another's personalities , moods , intentions .
Of course , there is an element of training here : these gifted people , by concentration , study , guidance , have learned to develop their power .
Simply using it increases its intensity , I was told by one sensitive .
Nor does a medium automatically know how to interpret her imagery .
Impressions often appear in a symbolic form and cannot be taken at face value .
It is apparently by symbols that the unconscious speaks to the conscious , and the medium has to translate these into meaning .
If communication with an entity on the `` other side '' is taking place , this too may assume the form of clairvoyant symbolism .
During one reading an image appeared of a prisoner in irons .
But this did not necessarily refer to an actual jail ; ;
taken with other details it could have referred to a state of mental or spiritual confinement .
In this connection it is worth noting how names are sometimes obtained .
Though they are often heard clairaudiently , as if a voice were speaking them , in other cases they are apprehended visually as symbols : a slope to signify the name `` Hill '' , for instance .
One medium saw two sheets flapping on a line and found that the name Shietz was significant to the sitter .
Farming is confining .
The farmer's life must be arranged to meet the demands of crops and livestock .
Livestock must be tended every day , routinely .
A slight change in the work schedule may cut the production of cows or chickens .
Even if there are no livestock , the farmer cannot leave the farm for long periods , particularly during the growing season .
The worker who lives on a farm cannot change jobs readily .
He cannot leave the farm to take work in another locality on short notice ; ;
such a move may mean a loss of capital .
Hard physical labor and undesirable hours are a part of life .
The farmer must get up early , and , at times , work late at night .
Frequently he must work long hours in the hot sun or cold rain .
No matter how well work is planned , bad weather or unexpected setbacks can cause extra work that must be caught up .
It may not be profitable for a part-time farmer to own the labor-saving machinery that a full-time farmer can invest in profitably .
Production may fall far below expectations .
Drought , hail , disease , and insects take their toll of crops .
Sickness or loss of some of the livestock may cut into the owner's earnings , even into his capital .
Returns for money and labor invested may be small even in a good year .
The high cost of land , supplies , and labor make it difficult to farm profitably on a part-time basis .
Land within commuting distance of a growing city is usually high in price , higher if it has subdivision possibilities .
Part-time farmers generally must pay higher prices for supplies than full-time farmers because they buy in smaller quantities .
If the farm is in an industrial area where wages are high , farm labor costs will also be high .
A part-time farmer needs unusual skill to get as high production per hen , per cow , or per acre as can be obtained by a competent full-time farmer .
It will frequently be uneconomical for him to own the most up-to-date equipment .
He may have to depend upon custom service for specialized operations , such as spraying or threshing , and for these , he may have to wait his turn .
There will be losses caused by emergencies that arise while he is away at his off-farm job .
The farm may be an additional burden if the main job is lost .
This may be true whether the farm is owned or rented .
If the farm is rented , the rent must be paid .
If it is owned , taxes must be paid , and if the place is not free of mortgage , there will be interest and payments on the principal to take care of .
Advantages
A farm provides a wholesome and healthful environment for children .
It gives them room to play and plenty of fresh air .
The children can do chores adapted to their age and ability .
Caring for a calf , a pig , or some chickens develops in children a sense of responsibility for work .
Part-time farming gives a measure of security if the regular job is lost , provided the farm is owned free of debt and furnishes enough income to meet fixed expenses and minimum living costs .
For some retired persons , part-time farming is a good way to supplement retirement income .
It is particularly suitable for those who need to work or exercise out of doors for their health .
Generally , the same level of living costs less in the country than in the city .
The savings are not as great , however , as is sometime supposed .
Usually , the cost of food and shelter will be somewhat less on the farm and the cost of transportation and utilities somewhat more .
Where schools , fire and police protection , and similar municipal services are of equal quality in city and country , real estate taxes are usually about the same .
A part-time farmer and his family can use their spare time profitably .
Some persons consider the work on a farm recreational .
For some white-collar workers it is a welcome change from the regular job , and a physical conditioner .
Land , labor , and equipment needed
Part-time farming can take comparatively little land , labor , and equipment -- or a great deal .
It depends on the kind and the scale of the farming operation .
General requirements for land , labor , and equipment are discussed below .
Specific requirements for each of various types of enterprises are discussed on pages 8 to 14 .
Land
Three quarters to 1 acre of good land is enough for raising fruits and vegetables for home use , and for a small flock of chickens , a cow , and two pigs .
You could not , of course , raise feed for the livestock on a plot this small .
If you want to raise feed or carry out some enterprise on a larger scale , you'll need more land .
In deciding how much land you want , take into account the amount you'll need to bring in the income you expect .
But consider also how much you and your family can keep up along with your other work .
The cost of land and the prospects for appreciation in value may influence your decision .
Some part-time farmers buy more land than they need in anticipation of suburban development .
This is a highly speculative venture .
Sometimes a desired acreage is offered only as part of a larger tract .
When surplus land is not expensive to buy or to keep up , it is usually better to buy it than to buy so small an acreage that the development of adjoining properties might impair the residential value of the farm .
Labor
If you have a year-round , full-time job you can't expect to grow much more than your family uses -- unless other members of the family do a good deal of the work or you hire help .
As a rule , part-time farmers hire little help .
In deciding on the enterprises to be managed by family labor , compare the amount of labor that can be supplied by the family with the labor needs of various enterprises listed in table 1 .
List the number of hours the family can be expected to work each month .
You may want to include your own regular vacation period if you have one .
Do not include all your spare time or all your family's spare time -- only what you are willing to use for farm work .
Equipment
If you are going to produce for home use only , you will need only hand tools .
You will probably want to hire someone to do the plowing , however .
For larger plantings , you'll need some kind of power for plowing , harrowing , disking , and cultivating .
If you have a planting of half an acre or more you may want to buy a small garden tractor ( available for $300 to $500 with attachments , 1960 prices ) .
These tractors are not entirely satisfactory for plowing , particularly on heavier soils , so you may still want to hire someone to do the plowing .
Cost of power and machinery is often a serious problem to the small-scale farmer .
If you are going to farm for extra cash income on a part-time basis you must keep in mind the needed machinery investments when you choose among farm enterprises .
You can keep your machinery investment down by buying good secondhand machinery , by sharing the cost and upkeep of machinery with a neighbor , and by hiring someone with machinery to do certain jobs .
If an expensive and specialized piece of machinery is needed -- such as a spray rig , a combine , or a binder -- it is better to pay someone with a machine to do the work .
Selecting a farm
Before you look for a farm you'll need to know ( 1 ) the kind and scale of farming you want to undertake ; ;
and ( 2 ) whether you want to buy or rent .
Information on pages 8 to 14 may help you in deciding on the kind and scale of your farming venture .
If you are not well acquainted with the area in which you wish to locate , or if you are not sure that you and your family will like and make a success of farming , usually you would do better to rent a place for a year or two before you buy .
Discussed below are some of the main things to look for when you select a part-time farm .
Location
nearness to work .
--
Choose a location within easy commuting distance of both the regular job and other employment opportunities .
Then if you change jobs you won't necessarily have to sell the farm .
The presence of alternative job opportunities also will make the place easier to sell if that should become desirable .
Obviously the farm should be on an all-weather road .
Nearness to markets .
--
If you grow anything to sell you will need markets nearby .
If you plan to sell fresh vegetables or whole milk , for example , you should be close to a town or city .
Kind of neighborhood .
--
Look for a farm in a neighborhood of well-kept homes .
There are slums in the country as well as in the city .
Few rural areas are protected by zoning .
A tavern , filling station , junk yard , rendering plant , or some other business may go up near enough to hurt your home or to hurt its value .
Facilities in the area .
--
Check on the schools in the area , the quality of teaching , and the provision for transportation to and from them .
Find out whether fire protection , sewage system , gas , water mains , and electrical lines are available in the locality .
If these facilities are not at the door , getting them may cost more than you expect .
You may have to provide them yourself or get along without them .
You cannot get along without an adequate supply of pure water .
If you are considering a part-time farm where the water must be provided by a well , find out if there is a good well on the farm or the probable cost of having one drilled .
A pond may provide adequate water for livestock and garden .
Pond water can be filtered for human use , but most part-time farmers would not want to go to so much trouble .
The following amounts of water are needed per day for livestock and domestic uses .
Topography and soil
Is the land suited to the crops you intend to raise ? ?
If you can't tell , get help from your county agricultural agent or other local specialist .
Soil type , drainage , or degree of slope can make the difference between good crops and poor ones .
Small areas that aren't right for a certain crop may lie next to areas that are well suited to that crop .
The house
Will the house on any part-time farm you are considering make a satisfactory full-time residence ? ?
How much will it cost to do any necessary modernizing and redecorating ? ?
If the house is not wired adequately for electricity or if plumbing or a central heating system must be installed , check into the cost of making these improvements .
Buying a farm
The value of the farm to you will depend on --
Its worth as a place to live .
The value of the products you can raise on it .
The possibilities of selling the property later on for suburban subdivision .
Decide first what the place is worth to you and your family as a home in comparison with what it would cost to live in town .
Take into account the difference in city and county taxes , insurance rates , utility rates , and the cost of travel to work .
Next , estimate the value of possible earnings of the farm .
To do this , set up a plan on paper for operating the farm .
List the kind and quantity of things the farm can be expected to produce in an average year .
Estimate the value of the produce at normal prices .
The total is the probably gross income from farming .
To find estimated net farm income , subtract estimated annual farming expenditures from probable gross income from farming .
Include as expenditures an allowance for depreciation of farm buildings and equipment .
Also count as an expense a charge for the labor to be contributed by the family .
It may be hard to decide what this labor is worth , but charge something for it .
Otherwise , you may pay too much for the farm and get nothing for your labor .
To figure the value of the farm in terms of investment income , divide the estimated annual net farm income by the percentage that you could expect to get in interest if the money were invested in some other way .
Everyone with a personal or group tragedy to relate had to be given his day in court as in some vast collective dirge .
For almost two months , the defendant and the world heard from individuals escaped from the grave about fathers and mothers , graybeards , adolescents , babies , starved , beaten to death , strangled , machine-gunned , gassed , burned .
One who had been a boy in Auschwitz had to tell how children had been selected by height for the gas chambers .
The gruesome humor of the Nazis was not forgotten -- the gas chamber with a sign on it with the name of a Jewish foundation and bearing a copper Star of David -- nor the gratuitous sadism of SS officers .
Public relations strategists everywhere , watching the reaction of the German press , the liberal press , the lunatic-fringe press , listening to their neighbors , studying interviews with men and women on the street , cried out : Too much , too much -- the mind of the audience is becoming dulled , the horrors are losing their effect .
And still another witness , one who had crawled out from under a heap of corpses , had to tell how the victims had been forced to lay themselves head to foot one on top of the other before being shot .
Most of this testimony may have been legally admissible as bearing on the corpus delicti of the total Nazi crime but seemed subject to question when not tied to the part in it of the defendant's Department of Jewish Affairs .
Counsel for the defense , however , shrewdly allowing himself to be swept by the current of dreadful recollections , rarely raised an objection .
Would not the emotional catharsis eventually brought on by this awfulness have a calming , if not exhausting , effect likely to improve his client's chances ? ?
Those who feared `` emotionalism '' at the Trial showed less understanding than Dr. Servatius of the route by which man achieves the distance necessary for fairness toward enemies .
Interruptions came largely from the bench , which numerous times rebuked the Attorney General for letting his witnesses run on , though it , too , made no serious effort to choke off the flow .
But there was a contrast even more decisive than a hunger for fact between the Trial in Jerusalem and those in Moscow and New York .
In each of the last , the trial marked the beginning of a new course : in Moscow the liquidation of the Old Bolsheviks and the tightening of Stalin's dictatorship ; ;
in the United States the initiation of militant anti-Communism , with the repentant ex-Communist in the vanguard .
These trials were properly termed `` political cases '' in that the trial itself was a political act producing political consequences .
But what could the Eichmann Trial initiate ? ?
Of what new course could it mark the beginning ? ?
The Eichmann case looked to the past , not to the future .
It was the conclusion of the first phase of a process of tragic recollection , and of refining the recollection , that will last as long as there are Jews .
As such , it was beyond politics and had no need of justification by a `` message '' .
`` It is not an individual that is in the dock at this historical trial '' -- said Ben Gurion , `` and not the Nazi regime alone -- but anti-Semitism throughout history '' .
How could supplying Eichmann with a platform on which to maintain that one could collaborate in the murder of millions of Jews without being an anti-semite contribute to a verdict against anti-Semitism ? ?
And if it was not an individual who was in the dock , why was the Trial , as we shall observe later , all but scuttled in the attempt to prove Eichmann a `` fiend '' ? ?
These questions touch the root of confusion in the prosecution's case .
It might be contended , of course , that Eichmann in stubbornly denying anti-Semitic feelings was lying or insisting on a private definition of anti-Semitism .
But in either event he was the wrong man for the kind of case outlined by Ben Gurion and set forth in the indictment .
In such a case the defendant should serve as a clear example and not have to be tied to the issue by argument .
One who could be linked to anti-Semitism only by overcoming his objections is scarcely a good specimen of the Jew-baiter throughout the ages .
Shout at Eichmann though he might , the Prosecutor could not establish that the defendant was falsifying the way he felt about Jews or that what he did feel fell into the generally recognized category of anti-Semitism .
Yes , he believed that the Jews were `` enemies of the Reich '' , and such a belief is , of course , typical of `` patriotic '' anti-Semites ; ;
but he believed in the Jew-as-enemy in a kind of abstract , theological way , like a member of a cult speculating on the nature of things .
The real question was how one passed from anti-Semitism of this sort to murder , and the answer to this question is not to be found in anti-Semitism itself .
In regard to Eichmann , it was to be found in the Nazi outlook , which contained a principle separate from and far worse than anti-Semitism , a principle by which the poison of anti-Semitism itself was made more virulent .
Perhaps under the guidance of this Nazi principle one could , as Eichmann declared , feel personally friendly toward the Jews and still be their murderer .
Not through fear of disobeying orders , as Eichmann kept trying to explain , but through a peculiar giddiness that began in a half-acceptance of the vicious absurdities contained in the Nazi interpretation of history and grew with each of Hitler's victories into a permanent light-mindedness and sense of magical rightness that was able to respond to any proposal , and the more outrageous the better , `` Well , let's try it '' .
At any rate , the substance of Eichmann's testimony was that all his actions flowed from his membership in the party and the SS , and though the Prosecutor did his utmost to prove actual personal hatred of Jews , his success on this score was doubtful and the anti-Semitic lesson weakened to that extent .
But if the Trial did not expose the special Nazi mania so deadly to Jews as well as to anyone upon whom it happened to light , neither did it warn very effectively against the ordinary anti-Semitism of which the Nazis made such effective use in Germany and wherever else they could find it .
If anti-Semitism was on trial in Jerusalem , why was it not identified , and with enough emphasis to capture the notice of the world press , in its connection with the activities of Eichmann's Department of Jewish Affairs , as exemplified by the betrayal and murder of Jews by non-police and non-party anti-Semites in Germany , as well as in Poland , Czechoslovakia , Hungary ? ?
The infamous Wansee Conference called by Heydrich in January 1942 , to organize the material and technical means to put to death the eleven million Jews spread throughout the nations of Europe , was attended by representatives of major organs of the German state , including the Reich Minister of the Interior , the State Secretary in charge of the Four Year Plan , the Reich Minister of Justice , the Under Secretary of Foreign Affairs .
The measures for annihilation proposed and accepted at the Conference affected industry , transportation , civilian agencies of government .
Heydrich , in opening the Conference , followed the reasoning and even the phraseology of the order issued earlier by Goering which authorized the Final Solution as `` a complement to '' previous `` solutions '' for eliminating the Jews from German living space through violence , economic strangulation , forced emigration , and evacuation .
In other words , the promulgators of the murder plan made clear that physically exterminating the Jews was but an extension of the anti-Semitic measures already operating in every phase of German life , and that the new conspiracy counted on the general anti-Semitism that had made those measures effective , as a readiness for murder .
This , in fact , it turned out to be .
Since the magnitude of the plan made secrecy impossible , once the wheels had began to turn , persons controlling German industries , social institutions , and armed forces became , through their anti-Semitism or their tolerance of it , conscious accomplices of Hitler's crimes ; ;
whether in the last degree or a lesser one was a matter to be determined individually .
What more could be asked for a Trial intended to warn the world against anti-Semitism than this opportunity to expose the exact link between the respectable Anti-Semite and the concentration-camp brute ? ?
Not in Eichmann's anti-Semitism but in the anti-Semitism of the sober German man of affairs lay the potential warning of the Trial .
No doubt many of the citizens of the Third Reich had conceived their anti-Semitism as an `` innocent '' dislike of Jews , as do others like them today .
The Final Solution proved that the Jew-baiter of any variety exposes himself as being implicated in the criminality and madness of others .
Ought not an edifying Trial have made every effort to demonstrate this once and for all by showing how representative types of `` mere '' anti-Semites were drawn step by step into the program of skull-bashings and gassings ? ?
The Prosecutor in his opening remarks did refer to `` the germ of anti-Semitism '' among the Germans which Hitler `` stimulated and transformed '' .
But if there was evidence at the Trial that aimed over Eichmann's head at his collaborators in the societies where he functioned , the press seems to have missed it .
Nor did the Trial devote much attention to exposing the usefulness of anti-Semitism to the Nazis , both in building their own power and in destroying that of rival organizations and states .
Certainly , one of the best ways of warning the world against anti-Semitism is to demonstrate its workings as a dangerous weapon .
Eichmann himself is a model of how the myth of the enemy-Jew can be used to transform the ordinary man of present-day society into a menace to all his neighbors .
Do patriots everywhere know enough about how the persecution of the Jews in Germany and later in the occupied countries contributed to terrorizing the populations , splitting apart individuals and groups , arousing the meanest and most dishonest impulses , pulverizing trust and personal dignity , and finally forcing people to follow their masters into the abyss by making them partners in unspeakable crimes ? ?
The career of Eichmann made the Trial a potential showcase for anti-Semitic demoralization : fearful of being mistaken for a Jew , he seeks protection in his Nazi uniform ; ;
clinging to the enemy-Jew idea , he is forced to overcome habits of politeness and neighborliness ; ;
once in power he begins to give vent to a criminal opportunism that causes him to alternate between megalomania and envy of those above him .
`` Is this the type of citizen you desire '' ? ?
The Trial should have asked the nations .
But though this characterization in no way diminished Eichmann's guilt , the Prosecutor , more deeply involved in the tactics of a criminal case than a political one , would have none of it .
Finally , if the mission of the Trial was to convict anti-Semitism , how could it have failed to post before the world the contrasting fates of the countries in which the Final Solution was aided by native Jew-haters -- i.e. , Germany , Poland , Hungary , Czechoslovakia -- and those in which it met the obstacle of human solidarity -- Denmark , Holland , Italy , Bulgaria , France ? ?
Should not everyone have been awakened to it as an outstanding fact of our time that the nations poisoned by anti-Semitism proved less fortunate in regard to their own freedom than those whose citizens saved their Jewish compatriots from the transports ? ?
Wasn't this meaning of Eichmann's experience in various countries worth highlighting ? ?
As the first collective confrontation of the Nazi outrage , the Trial of Eichmann represents a recovery of the Jews from the shock of the death camps , a recovery that took fifteen years and which is still by no means complete ( though let no one believe that it could be hastened by silence ) .
Only across a distance of time could the epic accounting begin .
It is already difficult to recall how little we knew before the Trial of what had been done to the Jews of Europe .
It is not that the facts of the persecution were unavailable ; ;
most of the information elicited in Jerusalem had been brought to the surface by the numerous War Crimes tribunals and investigating commissions , and by reports , memoirs , and survivors' accounts .
In Poughkeepsie , N.Y. , , in 1952 , a Roman Catholic hospital presented seven Protestant physicians with an ultimatum to quit the Planned Parenthood Federation or to resign from the hospital staff .
Three agreed , but four declined and were suspended .
After a flood of protests , they were reinstated at the beginning of 1953 .
The peace of the community was badly disturbed , and people across the nation , reading of the incident , felt uneasy .
In New York City in 1958 , the city's Commissioner of Hospitals refused to permit a physician to provide a Protestant mother with a contraceptive device .
He thereby precipitated a bitter controversy involving Protestants , Jews and Roman Catholics that continued for two months , until the city's Board of Hospitals lifted the ban on birth-control therapy .
A year later in Albany , N.Y. , a Roman Catholic hospital barred an orthopedic surgeon because of his connection with the Planned Parenthood Association .
Immediately , the religious groups of the city were embroiled in an angry dispute over the alleged invasion of a man's right to freedom of religious belief and conscience .
These incidents , typical of many others , dramatize the distressing fact that no controversy during the last several decades has caused more tension , rancor and strife among religious groups in this country than the birth-control issue .
It has flared up periodically on the front pages of newspapers in communities divided over birth-prevention regulations in municipal hospitals and health and family-welfare agencies .
It has erupted on the national level in the matter of including birth-control information and material in foreign aid to underdeveloped countries .
Where it is not actually erupting , it rumbles and smolders in sullen resentment like a volcano , ready to explode at any moment .
The time has come for citizens of all faiths to unite in an effort to remove this divisive and nettlesome issue from the political and social life of our nation .
The first step toward the goal is the establishment of a new atmosphere of mutual good will and friendly communication on other than the polemical level .
Instead of emotional recrimination , loaded phrases and sloganeering , we need a dispassionate study of the facts , a better understanding of the opposite viewpoint and a more serious effort to extend the areas of agreement until a solution is reached .
`` All too frequently '' , points out James O'Gara , managing editor of Commonweal , `` Catholics run roughshod over Protestant sensibilities in this matter , by failure to consider the reasoning behind the Protestant position and , particularly , by their jibes at the fact that Protestant opinion on birth control has changed in recent decades '' .
All too often our language is unduly harsh .
The second step is to recognize the substantial agreement -- frequently blurred by emotionalism and inaccurate newspaper reporting -- already existing between Catholics and Non-Catholics concerning the over-all objectives of family planning .
Instead of Catholics' being obliged or even encouraged to beget the greatest possible number of offspring , as many Non-Catholics imagine , the ideal of responsible parenthood is stressed .
Family planning is encouraged , so that parents will be able to provide properly for their offspring .
Pope Pius 12 , declared in 1951 that it is possible to be exempt from the normal obligation of parenthood for a long time and even for the whole duration of married life , if there are serious reasons , such as those often mentioned in the so-called medical , eugenic , economic and social `` indications '' .
This means that such factors as the health of the parents , particularly the mother , their ability to provide their children with the necessities of life , the degree of population density of a country and the shortage of housing facilities may legitimately be taken into consideration in determining the number of offspring .
These are substantially the same factors considered by Non-Catholics in family planning .
The laws of many states permit birth control only for medical reasons .
The Roman Catholic Church , however , sanctions a much more liberal policy on family planning .
Catholics , Protestants and Jews are in agreement over the objectives of family planning , but disagree over the methods to be used .
The Roman Catholic Church sanctions only abstention or the rhythm method , also known as the use of the infertile or safe period .
The Church considers this to be the method provided by nature and its divine Author : It involves no frustration of nature's laws , but simply an intelligent and disciplined use of them .
With the exception of the Roman Catholic and the Orthodox Catholic Churches , most churches make no moral distinction between rhythm and mechanical or chemical contraceptives , allowing the couple free choice .
There is a difference in theological belief where there seems little chance of agreement .
The grounds for the Church's position are Scriptural ( Old Testament ) , the teachings of the fathers and doctors of the early Church , the unbroken tradition of nineteen centuries , the decisions of the highest ecclesiastical authority and the natural law .
The latter plays a prominent role in Roman Catholic theology and is considered decisive , entirely apart from Scripture , in determining the ethical character of birth-prevention methods .
The Roman Catholic natural-law tradition regards as self-evident that the primary objective purpose of the conjugal act is procreation and that the fostering of the mutual love of the spouses is the secondary and subjective end .
This conclusion is based on two propositions : that man by the use of his reason can ascertain God's purpose in the universe and that God makes known His purpose by certain `` given '' physical arrangements .
Thus , man can readily deduce that the primary objective end of the conjugal act is procreation , the propagation of the race .
Moreover , man may not supplant or frustrate the physical arrangements established by God , who through the law of rhythm has provided a natural method for the control of conception .
Believing that God is the Author of this law and of all laws of nature , Roman Catholics believe that they are obliged to obey those laws , not frustrate or mock them .
Let it be granted then that the theological differences in this area between Protestants and Roman Catholics appear to be irreconcilable .
But people differ in their religious beliefs on scores of doctrines , without taking up arms against those who disagree with them .
Why is it so different in regard to birth control ? ?
It is because each side has sought to implement its distinctive theological belief through legislation and thus indirectly force its belief , or at least the practical consequences thereof , upon others .
It is always a temptation for a religious organization , especially a powerful or dominant one , to impose through the clenched fist of the law its creedal viewpoint upon others .
Both Roman Catholics and Protestants have succumbed to this temptation in the past .
Consider what happened during World War 1 , , when the Protestant churches united to push the Prohibition law through Congress .
Many of them sincerely believe that the use of liquor in any form or in any degree is intrinsically evil and sinful .
With over four million American men away at war , Protestants forced their distinctive theological belief upon the general public .
With the return of our soldiers , it soon became apparent that the belief was not shared by the great majority of citizens .
The attempt to enforce that belief ushered in a reign of bootleggers , racketeers , hijackers and gangsters that led to a breakdown of law unparalleled in our history .
The so-called `` noble experiment '' came to an inglorious end .
That tumultuous , painful and costly experience shows clearly that a law expressing a moral judgment cannot be enforced when it has little correspondence with the general view of society .
That experience holds a lesson for us all in regard to birth control today .
Up to the turn of the century , contraception was condemned by all Christian churches as immoral , unnatural and contrary to divine law .
This was generally reflected in the civil laws of Christian countries .
Today , the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Churches stand virtually alone in holding that conviction .
The various Lambeth Conferences , expressing the Anglican viewpoint , mirror the gradual change that has taken place among Protestants generally .
In 1920 , the Lambeth Conference repeated its 1908 condemnation of contraception and issued `` an emphatic warning against the use of unnatural means for the avoidance of conception , together with the grave dangers -- physical , moral , and religious -- thereby incurred , and against the evils which the extension of such use threaten the race '' .
Denouncing the view that the sexual union is an end in itself , the Conference declared : `` We steadfastly uphold what must always be regarded as the governing considerations of Christian marriage .
One is the primary purpose for which marriage exists , namely , the continuance of the race through the gift and heritage of children ; ;
the other is the paramount importance in married life of deliberate and thoughtful self-control '' .
The Conference called for a vigorous campaign against the open or secret sale of contraceptives .
In 1930 , the Lambeth Conference again affirmed the primary purpose of marriage to be the procreation of children , but conceded that , in certain limited circumstances , contraception might be morally legitimate .
In 1958 , the Conference endorsed birth control as the responsibility laid by God on parents everywhere .
Many other Protestant denominations preceded the Anglicans in such action .
In March , 1931 , 22 out of 28 members of a committee of the Federal Council of Churches ratified artificial methods of birth control .
`` As to the necessity '' , the committee declared , `` for some form of effective control of the size of the family and the spacing of children , and consequently of control of conception , there can be no question .
There is general agreement also that sex union between husbands and wives as an expression of mutual affection without relation to procreation is right '' .
Since then , many Protestant denominations have made separate pronouncements , in which they not only approved birth control , but declared it at times to be a religious duty .
What determines the morality , they state , is not the means used , but the motive In general , the means ( excluding abortion ) that prove most effective are considered the most ethical .
This development is reflected in the action taken in February , 1961 , by the general board of the National Council of Churches , the largest Protestant organization in the Aj .
The board approved and commended the use of birth-control devices as a part of Christian responsibility in family planning .
It called for opposition to laws and institutional practices restricting the information or availability of contraceptives .
The general board declared : `` Most of the Protestant churches hold contraception and periodic continence to be morally right when the motives are right .
The general Protestant conviction is that motives , rather than methods , form the primary moral issue , provided the methods are limited to the prevention of conception '' .
An action once universally condemned by all Christian churches and forbidden by the civil law is now not only approved by the overwhelming majority of Protestant denominations , but also deemed , at certain times , to be a positive religious duty .
This viewpoint has now been translated into action by the majority of people in this country .
Repeated polls have disclosed that most married couples are now using contraceptives in the practice of birth control .
For all concerned with social-welfare legislation , the significance of this radical and revolutionary change in the thought and habits of the vast majority of the American people is clear , profound and far-reaching .
To try to oppose the general religious and moral conviction of such a majority by a legislative fiat would be to invite the same breakdown of law and order that was occasioned by the ill-starred Prohibition experiment .
This brings us to the fact that the realities we are dealing with lie not in the field of civil legislation , but in the realm of conscience and religion : They are moral judgments and matters of theological belief .
Conscience and religion are concerned with private sin : The civil law is concerned with public crimes .
Only confusion , failure and anarchy result when the effort is made to impose upon the civil authority the impossible task of policing private homes to preclude the possibility of sin .
Among the chief victims of such an ill-conceived imposition would be religion itself .
On April 17 , 1610 , the sturdy little three-masted bark , Discovery , weighed anchor in St. Katherine's Pool , London , and floated down the Thames toward the sea .
She carried , besides her captain , a crew of twenty-one and provisions for a voyage of exploration of the Arctic waters of North America .
Seventeen months later , on September 6 , 1611 , an Irish fishing boat sighted the Discovery limping eastward outside Galway Bay .
When she reached port , she was found to have on board only eight men , all near starvation .
The captain was gone , and the mate was gone .
The man who now commanded her had started the voyage as an ordinary seaman .
What disaster struck the Discovery during those seventeen months ? ?
What happened to the fourteen missing men ? ?
These questions have remained one of the great sea mysteries of all time .
For hundreds of years , the evidence available consisted of ( 1 ) the captain's fragmentary journal , ( 2 ) a highly prejudiced account by one of the survivors , ( 3 ) a note found in a dead man's desk on board , and ( 4 ) several second-hand reports .
All told , they offered a highly confused picture .
But since 1927 , researchers digging into ancient court records and legal files have been able to find illuminating pieces of information .
Not enough to do away with all doubts , but sufficient to give a fairly accurate picture of the events of the voyage .
Historians have had two reasons for persisting so long in their investigations .
First , they wanted to clarify a tantalizing , bizarre enigma .
Second , they believed it important to determine the fate of the captain -- a man whose name is permanently stamped on our maps , on American towns and counties , on a great American river , and on half a million square miles of Arctic seas .
The name : Henry Hudson .
This is the story of his last tragic voyage , as nearly as we are able -- or ever , probably , will be able -- to determine :
The sailing in the spring of 1610 was Hudson's fourth in four years .
Each time his objective had been the same -- a direct water passage from Western Europe to the Far East .
In 1607 and 1608 , the English Muscovy Company had sent him northward to look for a route over the North Pole or across the top of Russia .
Twice he had failed , and the Muscovy Company indicated it would not back him again .
In 1609 , the Dutch East India Company hired Hudson , gave him two learned geographers , fitted him out with a ship called the Half Moon , and supplied him with Dutch sailors .
This time he turned westward , to the middle Atlantic coast of North America .
His chief discovery was important -- the Great North ( later , the Hudson ) River -- but it produced no northwest passage .
When the Half Moon put in at Dartmouth , England , in the fall of 1609 , word of Hudson's findings leaked out , and English interest in him revived .
The government forbade Hudson to return to Amsterdam with his ship .
He thereupon went to London and spent the winter talking to men of wealth .
By springtime , he was supported by a rich merchant syndicate under the patronage of Henry , Prince of Wales .
He had obtained and provisioned a veteran ship called the Discovery and had recruited a crew of twenty-one , the largest he had ever commanded .
The purpose of this fourth voyage was clear .
A century of exploration had established that a great land mass , North and South America , lay between Europe and the Indies .
One by one , the openings in the coast that promised a passage through had been explored and discarded .
In fact , Hudson's sail up the Great North River had disposed of one of the last hopes .
But there remained one mysterious , unexplored gap , far to the north .
Nearly twenty-five years before , Captain John Davis had noted , as he sailed near the Arctic Circle , `` a very great gulf , the water whirling and roaring , as it were the meeting of tides '' .
He named this opening , between Baffin Island and Labrador , the `` Furious Overfall '' .
( Later , it was to be called Hudson Strait .
)
In 1602 , George Waymouth , in the same little Discovery that Hudson now commanded , had sailed 300 miles up the strait before his frightened men turned the ship back .
Hudson now proposed to sail all the way through and test the seas beyond for the long-sought waterway .
Even Hudson , experienced in Arctic sailing and determined as he was , must have had qualms as he slid down the Thames .
Ahead were perilous , ice-filled waters .
On previous voyages , it had been in precisely such dangerous situations that he had failed as a leader and captain .
On the second voyage , he had turned back at the frozen island of Novaya Zemlya and meekly given the crew a certificate stating that he did so of his own free will -- which was obviously not the case .
On the third voyage , a near-mutiny rising from a quarrel between Dutch and English crew members on the Half Moon had almost forced him to head the ship back to Amsterdam in Mid-Atlantic .
Worse , his present crew included five men who had sailed with him before .
Of only one could he be sure -- young John Hudson , his second son .
The mate , Robert Juet , who had kept the journal on the Half Moon , was experienced -- but he was a bitter old man , ready to complain or desert at any opportunity .
Philip Staffe , the ship's carpenter , was a good worker , but perversely independent .
Arnold Lodley and Michael Perse were like the rest -- lukewarm , ready to swing against Hudson in a crisis .
But men willing to sail at all into waters where wooden ships could be crushed like eggs were hard to find .
Hudson knew he had to use these men as long as he remained an explorer .
And he refused to be anything else .
It is believed that Hudson was related to other seafaring men of the Muscovy Company and was trained on company ships .
He was a Londoner , married , with three sons .
( The common misconception that he was Dutch and that his first name was Hendrik stem from Dutch documents of his third voyage .
) In 1610 , Hudson was probably in his early forties , a good navigator , a stubborn voyager , but otherwise fatally unsuited to his chosen profession .
Hudson's first error of the fourth voyage occurred only a few miles down the Thames .
There at the river's edge waited one Henry Greene , whom Hudson listed as a `` clerk '' .
Greene was in actuality a young ruffian from Kent , who had broken with his parents in order to keep the company he preferred -- pimps , panders and whores .
He was not the sort of sailor Hudson wanted his backers to see on board and he had Greene wait at Gravesend , where the Discovery picked him up .
For the first three weeks , the ship skirted up the east coast of Great Britain , then turned westward .
On May 11 , she reached Iceland .
Poor winds and fog locked her up in a harbor the crew called `` Lousie Bay '' .
The subsequent two-weeks wait made the crew quarrelsome .
With Hudson looking on , his protege Greene picked a fight with the ship's surgeon , Edward Wilson .
The issue was settled on shore , Greene winning and Wilson remaining ashore , determined to catch the next fishing boat back to England .
With difficulty , Hudson persuaded him to rejoin the ship , and they sailed from Iceland .
Early in June , the Discovery passed `` Desolation '' ( southern Greenland ) and in mid-June entered the `` Furious Overfall '' .
Floating ice bore down from the north and west .
Fog hung over the route constantly .
Turbulent tides rose as much as fifty feet .
The ship's compass was useless because of the nearness of the magnetic North Pole .
As the bergs grew larger , Hudson was forced to turn south into what is now Ungava Bay , an inlet of the Great Strait .
After finding that its coasts led nowhere , however , he turned north again , toward the main , ice-filled passageway -- and the crew , at first uneasy , then frightened , rebelled .
The trouble was at least partly Juet's doing .
For weeks he had been saying that Hudson's idea of sailing through to Java was absurd .
The great , crushing ice masses coming into view made him sound like the voice of pure reason .
A group of sailors announced to Hudson that they would sail no farther .
Instead of quelling the dissension , as many captains of the era would have done ( Sir Francis Drake lopped a man's head off under similar circumstances ) , Hudson decided to be reasonable .
He went to his cabin and emerged carrying a large chart , which he set up in view of the crew .
Patiently , he explained what he knew about their course and their objectives .
When Hudson had finished , the `` town meeting '' broke down into a general , wordy argument .
One man remarked that if he had a hundred pounds , he would give ninety of them to be back in England .
Up spoke carpenter Staffe , who said he wouldn't give ten pounds to be home .
The statement was effective .
The meeting broke up .
Hudson was free to sail on .
All through July the Discovery picked her way along the 450-mile-long strait , avoiding ice and rocky islands .
On August 3 , two massive headlands reared out of the mists -- great gateways never before , so far as Hudson knew , seen by Europeans .
To starboard was a cape a thousand feet high , patched with ice and snow , populated by thousands of screaming sea birds .
To port was a point 200 feet high rising behind to a precipice of 2,000 feet .
Hudson named the capes Digges and Wolstenholme , for two of his backers .
Hudson pointed the Discovery down the east coast of the newly discovered sea ( now called Hudson Bay ) , confident he was on his way to the warm waters of the Pacific .
After three weeks' swift sailing , however , the ship entered an area of shallow marshes and river deltas .
The ship halted .
The great `` sea to the westwards '' was a dead end .
This must have been Hudson's blackest discovery .
For he seemed to sense at once that before him was no South Sea , but the solid bulk of the North American continent .
This was the bitter end , and Hudson seemed to know he was destined to failure .
Feverishly , he tried to brush away this intuition .
North and south , east and west , back and forth he sailed in the land-locked bay , plowing furiously forward until land appeared , then turning to repeat the process , day after day , week after week .
Hundreds of miles to the north , the route back to England through the `` Furious Overfall '' was again filling with ice .
The men were at first puzzled , then angered by the aimless tacking .
Once more , Juet's complaints were the loudest .
Hudson's reply was to accuse the mate of disloyalty .
Juet demanded that Hudson prove his charges in an open trial .
The trial was held September 10 .
Hudson , presiding , heard Juet's defense , then called for testimony from crew members .
Juet had made plentiful enemies , several men stepped forward .
Hands on Bible , seaman Lodley and carpenter Staffe swore that Juet had tried to persuade them to keep muskets and swords in their cabins .
Cook Bennett Mathues said Juet had predicted bloodshed on the ship .
Others added that Juet had wanted to turn the ship homeward .
Hudson deposed Juet and cut his pay .
The new mate was Robert Bylot , talented but inexperienced .
There were other shifts and pay cuts according to the way individuals had conducted themselves .
The important result , however , was that Juet and Francis Clemens , the deposed boatswain , became Hudson's sworn enemies .
As Hudson resumed his desperate criss-crossing of the little bay , every incident lessened the crew's respect for him .
Once , after the Discovery lay for a week in rough weather , Hudson ordered the anchor raised before the sea had calmed .
Just as it was being hauled inboard , a sea hit the ship .
Michael Butt and Adame Moore were thrown off the capstan and badly injured .
The anchor cable would have been lost overboard , but Philip Staffe was on hand to sever it with his axe .
Thomas Douglas , fifth Earl of Selkirk , a noble humanitarian Scot concerned with the plight of the crofters of his native Highlands , conceived a plan to settle them in the valley of the Red River of the North .
Since the land he desired lay within the great northern empire of the Hudson's Bay Company , he purchased great blocks of the Comany's stock with the view to controlling its policies .
Having achieved this end , he was able to buy 116,000 square miles in the valleys of the Red and Assiniboine rivers .
The grant , which stretched southward to Lake Traverse -- the headwaters of the Red -- was made in May , 1811 , and by October of that year a small group of Scots was settling for the winter at York Factory on Hudson Bay .
Thus at the same time that William Henry Harrison was preparing to pacify the aborigines of Indiana Territory and winning fame at the battle of Tippecanoe , Anglo-Saxon settlement made a great leap into the center of the North American continent to the west of the American agricultural frontier .
Seven hundred miles south of York Factory , at `` the Forks '' of the Red and the Assiniboine , twenty-three men located a settlement in August 1812 .
By October the little colony about Fort Douglas ( present-day Winnipeg ) numbered 100 .
Within a few years the Scots , engaged in breaking the thick sod and stirring the rich soil of the valley , were joined by a group called Meurons .
The latter , members of two regiments of Swiss mercenaries transported by Great Britain to Canada to fight the Americans in the War of 1812 , had settled in Montreal and Kingston at the close of the war in 1815 .
Selkirk persuaded eighty men and four officers to go to Red River where they were to serve as a military force to protect his settlers from the hostile Northwest Company which resented the intrusion of farmers into the fur traders' empire .
The mercenaries were little interested in farming and added nothing to the output of the farm plots on which all work was still done with hoes as late as 1818 .
It was the low yield of the Selkirk plots and the ravages of grasshoppers in 1818 that led to the dispersal of the settlement southward .
When late in the summer the full extent of the damage was assessed , all but fifty of the Scots , Swiss and metis moved up the Red to the mouth of the Pembina river .
Here they built huts and a stockade named Fort Daer after Selkirk's barony in Scotland .
The new site was somewhat warmer than Fort Douglas and much closer to the great herds of buffalo on which the settlement must depend for food .
The Selkirk settlers had been anticipated in their move southward by British fur traders .
For many years the Northwest Company had its southern headquarters at Prairie Du Chien on the Mississippi River , some 300 miles southeast of present-day St. Paul , Minnesota .
When in 1816 an act of Congress forced the foreign firm out of the United States , its British-born employees , now become American citizens -- Joseph Rolette , Joseph Renville and Alexis Bailly -- continued in the fur business .
On Big Stone Lake near the headwaters of the Red River , Robert Dickson , Superintendent of the Western Indian Department of Canada , had a trading post and planned in 1818 to build a fort to be defended by twenty men and two small artillery pieces .
His trading goods came from Canada to the Forks of Red River and from Selkirk's settlement he brought them south in carts .
These carts were of a type devised in Pembina in the days of Alexander Henry the Younger about a decade before the Selkirk colony was begun .
In 1802 Henry referred to `` our new carts '' as being about four feet off the ground and carrying five times as much as a horse could pack .
They were held together by pegs and withes and in later times drawn by a single ox in thills .
It was Dickson who suggested to Lord Selkirk that he return to the Atlantic coast by way of the United States .
In September 1817 at Fort Daer ( Pembina ) Dickson met the noble lord whom , with the help of a band of Sioux , he escorted to Prairie Du Chien .
During the trip Selkirk decided that the route through Illinois territory to Indiana and the eastern United States was the best route for goods from England to reach Red River and that the United States was a better source of supply for many goods than either Canada or England .
Upon arriving at Baltimore , Selkirk on December 22 wrote to John Quincy Adams , Secretary of State at Washington , inquiring about laws covering trade with `` Missouri and Illinois Territories '' .
This traffic , he declared prophetically , `` tho' it might be of small account at first , would increase with the progress of our Settlements .
''
The route which he had traveled and which he believed might develop into a trade route was followed by his settlers earlier than he might have expected .
In 1819 grasshoppers again destroyed the crop at `` the Forks '' ( Fort Douglas ) and in December 1819 , twenty men left Fort Daer for the most northerly American outpost at Prairie Du Chien .
It was a three-month journey in the dead of winter followed by three months of labor on Mackinac boats .
With these completed and ice gone from the St. Peter's River ( present-day Minnesota river ) their 250 bushels of wheat , 100 bushels of oats and barley and 30 bushels of peas and some chickens were loaded onto the flat-bottomed boats and rowed up the river to Big Stone Lake , across into Lake Traverse , and down the Red .
They reached Fort Douglas in June 1820 .
This epic effort to secure seed for the colony cost Selkirk Ab1,040 .
Nevertheless so short was the supply of seed that the settlers were forced to retreat to Fort Daer for food .
Thereafter seed and food became more plentiful and the colony remained in the north the year round .
Activity by British traders and the presence of a colony on the Red prompted the United State War Department in 1819 to send Lieutenant-Colonel Henry Leavenworth from Detroit to put a post 300 miles northwest of Prairie Du Chien , until then the most advanced United States post .
In September 1822 two companies of infantry arrived at the mouth of the St. Peter's River , the head of navigation on the Mississippi , and began construction of Fort St. Anthony which , upon completion , was renamed in honor of its commander , Colonel Josiah Snelling .
It was from the American outposts that Red River shortages of livestock were to be made good .
Hercules L. Dousman , fur trader and merchant at Prairie Du Chien , contracted to supply Selkirk's people with some 300 head of cattle , and Alexis Bailly and Francois Labothe were hired as drovers .
Bailly , after leaving Fort Snelling in August 1821 , was forced to leave some of the cattle at the Hudson's Bay Company's post on Lake Traverse `` in the Sieux Country '' and reached Fort Garry , as the Selkirk Hudson's Bay Company center was now called , late in the fall .
He set out on his 700-mile return journey with five families of discontented and disappointed Swiss who turned their eyes toward the United States .
Observing their distressing condition , Colonel Snelling allowed these half-starved immigrants to settle on the military reservation .
As these Swiss were moving from the Selkirk settlement to become the first civilian residents of Minnesota , Dousman of Michilimackinac , Michigan , and Prairie Du Chien was traveling to Red River to open a trade in merchandise .
Early in 1822 he was at Fort Garry offering to bring in pork , flour , liquor and tobacco .
Alexander McDonnell , governor of Red River , and James Bird , a chief factor of the Hudson's Bay Company , ordered such `` sundry articles '' to a value of Ab4,500 .
For its part the Hudson's Bay Company was troubled by the approach of American settlement .
As the time drew near for the drawing of the British-American frontier by terms of the agreement of 1818 , the company suspected that the Pembina colony -- its own post and Fort Daer -- was on American territory .
Accordingly Selkirk's agents ordered the settlers to move north , and by October , John Halkett had torn down both posts , floating the timber to `` the Forks '' in rafts .
`` I have done everything '' , he wrote , `` to break up the whole of that unfortunate establishment .
'' Despite Company threats , duly carried through , to cut off supplies of powder , ball , and thread for fishing nets , about 350 persons stayed in the village .
They would attempt to bring supplies from St. Louis or Prairie Du Chien at `` great expense as well as danger '' .
At Fort Garry some of the Swiss also decided to cast their lot with the United States , and in 1823 several families paid guides to take them to Fort Snelling .
The disasters of 1825-1826 caused more to leave .
After heavy rains and an onslaught of mice , snow fell on October 15 , 1825 , and remained on the ground through a winter so cold that the ice on the Red was five feet thick .
In April came a rapid thaw that produced high waters which did not recede until mid-June .
On June 24 more than 400 families started the three-month trip across the plains to the Mississippi .
By fall , 443 survivors of this arduous journey were clustered about Fort Snelling , but most of them were sent on to Galena and St. Louis , with a few going as far as Vevay , Indiana , a notable Swiss center in the United States .
In 1837 , 157 Red River people with more than 200 cattle were living on the reservation at Fort Snelling .
Below the fort , high bluffs extended uninterruptedly for six miles along the Mississippi River .
At the point where they ended , another settlement grew up around a chapel built at the boat landing by Father Lucian Galtier in 1840 .
Its people , including Pierre Bottineau and other American Fur Company employees and the refugees from Fort Garry , were joined by the remaining Scots and Swiss from Fort Snelling when Major Joseph Plympton expelled them from the reservation in May 1840 .
The resultant town , platted in 1847 and named for the patron of Father Galtier's mission , St. Paul , was to become an important center of the fur trade and was to take on a new interest for those Selkirkers who remained at Red River .
While population at Fort Garry increased rapidly , from 2,417 in 1831 to 4,369 in 1840 , economic opportunities did not increase at a similar rate .
Accordingly , though the practice violated the no-trading provision of the Selkirk charter which reserved all such activity in merchandise and furs to the Hudson's Bay Company , some settlers went into trade .
The Company maintained a store at which products of England could be purchased and brought in goods for the new merchants on the understanding that they refrain from trading in furs .
Despite this prohibiton , by 1844 some of the Fort Garry merchants were trading with the Indians for furs .
In June 1845 , the Governor and Council of Assiniboia imposed a 20 per cent duty on imports via Hudson's Bay which were viewed as aimed at the `` very vitals of the Company's trade and power '' .
To reduce further the flow of goods from England , the Company's local officials asked that its London authorities refrain from forwarding any more trade goods to these men .
With their customary source of supply cut off , the Fort Garry free traders engaged three men to cart goods to them from the Mississippi country .
Others carried pemmican from `` the Forks '' to St. Paul and goods from St. Paul to Red River , as in the summer of 1847 when one trader , Wells , transported twenty barrels of whisky to the British settlement .
This trade was subject to a tariff of 7.5 per cent after February 1835 , but much was smuggled into Assiniboia with the result that the duty was reduced by 1841 to 4 per cent on the initiative of the London committee .
The trade in a few commodities noted above was to grow in volume as a result of changes both north and south of the 49th parallel .
The letters of the common soldiers are rich in humor .
Indeed , no richer humor is to be found in the whole of American literature than in the letters of the semi-literate men who wore the blue and the gray .
Some of their figures of speech were colorful and expressive .
A Confederate observed that the Yankees were : `` thicker than lise on a hen and a dam site ornraier '' .
Another reported that his comrades were `` in fine spirits pitching around like a blind dog in a meat house '' .
A third wrote that it was `` raining like poring peas on a rawhide '' .
Yanks were equally adept at figurative expression .
One wrote : `` ( I am so hungry ) I could eat a rider off his horse & snap at the stirups '' .
A second reported that the dilapidated houses in Virginia `` look like the latter end of original sin and hard times '' .
A third remarked of slowness of Southerners : `` they moved about from corner to corner , as uneasy as a litter of hungry leaches on the neck of a wooden god '' .
Still another , annoyed by the brevity of a recently received missive , wrote : `` yore letter was short and sweet , jist like a roasted maget '' .
A Yankee sergeant gave the following description of his sweetheart : `` my girl is none of your one-horse girls .
She is a regular stub and twister , double geered .
She is well-educated and refined , all wildcat and fur , and Union from the muzzle to the crupper '' .
Humor found many modes of expression .
A Texan wrote to a male companion at home : `` what has become of Halda and Laura ? ?
When you see them again give them my love -- not best respects now , but love by God '' .
William R. Stillwell , an admirable Georgian whose delightful correspondence is preserved in the Georgia Department of Archives and History , liked to tease his wife in his letters .
After he had been away from home about a year he wrote : `` ( dear Wife ) if I did not write and receive letters from you I believe that I would forgit that I was married .
I don't feel much like a maryed man but I never forgit it sofar as to court enny other lady but if I should you must forgive me as I am so forgitful '' .
A Yank , disturbed by his increasing corpulence , wrote : `` I am growing so fat I am a burden 2 myself '' .
Another Yank parodied the familiar bedtime prayer : `` now I lay me down to sleep , the gray-backs o'er my body creep ; ;
if they should bite before I wake , I pray the Lord their jaws to break '' .
Charles Thiot , a splendid Georgia soldier , differed from most of his comrades in the ranks in that he was the owner of a large plantation , well-educated , and nearly fifty years of age .
But he was very much like his associates in his hatred of camp routine .
Near the end of his service he wrote that when the war was over he was going to buy two pups , name one of them `` Fall-in '' and the other `` Close-up '' , and then shoot them both , `` and that will be the end of Fall-in and Close-up '' .
The soldiers who comprised the rank and file of the Civil War armies were an earthy people .
They talked and wrote much about the elemental functions of the body .
One of the most common of camp maladies was diarrhoea .
Men of more delicate sensibilities referred to this condition as `` looseness of the bowels '' ; ;
but a much more common designation was `` the sh-ts '' .
A Michigan soldier stationed in Georgia wrote in 1864 : :
`` I expect to be tough as a knott as soon as I get over the Georgia Shitts '' .
Johnny Rebs from the deep South who were plagued with diarrhoea after transfer to the Virginia front often informed their families that they were suffering from the `` the Virginia quickstep '' .
A Georgia soldier gave his wife the following description of the cause and consequence of diarrhoea : `` I have bin a little sick with diorah two or three days .
I eat too much eggs and poark .
It sowered ( on ) my stomack and turn loose on me '' .
A Michigan soldier wrote his brother : `` I am well at present with the exception I have got the Dyerear and I hope thease few lines find you the same '' .
The letters which poured forth from camps were usually written under adverse circumstances .
Save for brief periods in garrison or winter quarters , soldiers rarely enjoyed the luxury of a writing desk or table .
Most of the letters were written in the hubbub of camp , on stumps , pieces of bark , drum heads , or the knee .
In the South , after the first year of the war , paper and ink were very poor .
Scarcity of paper caused many Southerners to adopt the practice of cross-writing , i.e. , after writing from left to right of the page in the usual manner , they gave the sheet a half turn and wrote from end to end across the lines previously written .
Sometimes soldiers wrote letters while bullets were whizzing about their heads .
A Yank writing from Vicksburg , May 28 , 1863 , stated : `` not less than 50 balls have passed over me since I commenced writing .
I could tell you of plenty narrow escapes , but we take no notice of them now '' .
A Reb stationed near Petersburg informed his mother : `` I need not tell you that I dodge pretty often for you can see that very plainly by the blots in this letter .
Just count each blot a dodge and add in a few for I don't dodge every time '' .
Another Reb writing under similar circumstances before Atlanta reported : `` the Yankees keep shooting so I am afraid they will knock over my ink , so I will close '' .
3 ,
the most common type of letter was that of soldier husbands to their wives .
But fathers often addressed communications to their small children ; ;
and these , full of homely advice , are among the most human and revealing of Civil War letters .
Rebs who owned slaves occasionally would include in their letters admonitions or greetings to members of the Negro community .
Occasionally they would write to the slaves .
Early in the war it was not uncommon for planters' sons to retain in camp Negro `` body servants '' to perform the menial chores such as cooking , foraging , cleaning the quarters , shining shoes , and laundering clothes .
Sometimes these servants wrote or dictated for enclosure with the letters of their soldier-masters messages to their relatives and to members of their owners' families .
Unmarried soldiers carried on correspondence with sweethearts at home .
Owing to the restrained usages characteristic of 19th-century America , these letters usually were stereotyped and revealed little depth of feeling .
Occasionally gay young blades would write vividly to boon companions at home about their amorous exploits in Richmond , Petersburg , Washington , or Nashville .
But these comments are hardly printable .
An Alabama soldier whose feminine associations were of the more admirable type wrote boastfully of his achievements among the Virginia belles : `` they thout I was a saint .
I told them some sweet lies and they believed it all .
I would tell them I got a letter from home stating that five of my Negroes had runaway and ten of Pappy's .
But I wold say I recond he did not mind it for he had a plenty more left and then they would lean to me like a sore eyd kitten to a basin of milk '' .
Some of the letters were pungently expressive .
An Ohio soldier who , from a comrade just returned from leave , received an unfavorable comment on the conduct of his sister , took pen in hand and delivered himself thus : `` dear Sis .
Alf sed he heard that you and Hardy was a runing together all the time and he though he wod gust quit having any thing mor to doo with you for he thought it was no more yuse .
I think you made a dam good chouise to turn off as nise a feler as Alf Dyer and let that orney thefin , drunkard , damed card playing sun of a bich com to sea you , the god damed theaf and lop yeard pigen tode helion , he is too orney for hel .
I will shute him as shore as I sea him '' .
Initiation into combat sometimes elicited from soldier correspondents choice comments about their experiences and reactions .
A Federal infantryman wrote to his father shortly after his first skirmish in Virginia : `` dear Pa .
Went out a skouting yesterday .
We got to one house where there were five secessionists .
They brok & run and Arch holored out to shoot the ornery suns of biches and we all let go at them .
Thay may say what they please but godamit Pa it is fun '' .
Some of the choicest remarks made by soldiers in their letters were in disparagement of unpopular officers .
A Mississippi soldier wrote : `` our General Reub Davis is a vain , stuck-up , illiterate ass '' .
An Alabamian wrote : `` Col. Henry is ( an ignoramus ) fit for nothing higher than the cultivation of corn '' .
A Floridian stated that his officers were `` not fit to tote guts to a bear '' .
On December 9 , 1862 , Sergeant Edwin H. Fay , an unusual Louisianan who held A.B. and M.A. degrees from Harvard University and who before the war was headmaster of a private school for boys in Louisiana , wrote his wife : `` I saw Pemberton and he is the most insignificant puke I ever saw .
His head cannot contain enough sense to command a regiment , much less a corps .
Jackson runs first and his Cavalry are well drilled to follow their leader .
He is not worth shucks .
But he is a West Point graduate and therefore must be born to command '' .
Similar comments about officers are to be found in the letters of Northern soldiers .
A Massachusetts soldier , who seems to have been a Civil War version of Bill Mauldin , wrote : `` the officers consider themselves as made of a different material from the low fellows in the ranks .
They get all the glory and most of the pay and don't earn ten cents apiece on the average , the drunken rascals '' .
Private George Gray Hunter of Pennsylvania wrote : `` I am well convinced in my own mind that had it not been for officers this war would have ended long ago '' .
Another Yankee became so disgusted as to state : `` I wish to God one half of our officers were knocked in the head by slinging them against ( the other half ) '' .
No group of officers came in for more spirited denunciation than the doctors .
One Federal soldier wrote : `` the docters is no aconte -- hell will be filde with do(c)ters and offersey when this war is over '' .
Shortly after the beginning of Sherman's Georgia campaign , an ailing Yank wrote his homefolk : `` the surgeon insisted on sending me to the hospital for treatment .
I insisted on takeing the field and prevailed -- thinking that I had better die by rebel bullets than ( by ) Union quackery '' .
The attitudes which the Rebs and Yanks took toward each other were very much the same and ranged over the same gamut of feeling , from friendliness to extreme hatred .
The Rebs were , to a Massachusetts corporal , `` fighting madmen or not men at all but whiskey & gunpowder put into a human frame '' .
A Pennsylvania soldier wrote that `` they were the hardest looking set of men that ever I saw .
They looked as if they had been fed on vinegar and shavings .
'' Private Jenkins Lloyd Jones of the Wisconsin Light Artillery wrote in his diary : `` I strolled among the Alabamans on the right , found some of the greenest specimens of humanity I think in the universe , their ignorance being little less than the slave they despise with as imperfect a dialect .
They recooned as how you'uns all would be a heap wus to we'uns all ' '' .
In a similar vein , but writing from the opposite side , Thomas Taylor , a private in the 6th Alabama Volunteers , in a letter to his wife , stated : `` you know that my heart is with you but I never could have been satisfied to have staid at home when my country is invaded by a thievin foe , by a set of cowardly skunks whose motto is Booty .
The popularity of folklore in America stands in direct proportion to the popularity of nationalism in America .
And the emphasis on nationalism in America is in proportion to the growth of American influence across the world .
Thus , if we are to observe American folklore in the twentieth century , we will do well to establish the relationships between folklore , nationalism and imperialism at the outset .
Historians have come to recognize two cardinal facts concerning nationalism and international influence .
1 ) Every age rewrites the events of its history in terms of what should have been , creating legends about itself that rationalize contemporary beliefs and excuse contemporary actions .
What actually occurred in the past is seldom as important as what a given generation feels must have occurred .
2 ) As a country superimposes its cultural and political attitudes on others , it searches its heritage in hopes of justifying its aggressiveness .
Its folklore and legend , usually disguised as history , are allowed to account for group actions , to provide a focal point for group loyalty , and to become a cohesive force for national identification .
One can apply these facts to Britain in the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries as she spread her dominion over palm and pine , and they can be applied again to the United States in more recent years .
The popularity of local color literature before the Spanish-American War , the steady currency of the Lincoln myth , the increased emphasis on the frontier West in our mass media are cases in point .
Nor is it an accident that baseball , growing into the national game in the last 75 years , has become a microcosm of American life , that learned societies such as the American Folklore Society and the American Historical Association were founded in the 1880s , or that courses in American literature , American civilization , American anything have swept our school and college curricula .
Of course , nationalism has really outlived its usefulness in a country as world-oriented as ours , and its continued existence reflects one of the major culture lags of the twentieth-century United States .
Yet nationalism has lost few of its charms for the historian , writer or man in the street .
It is an understandable paradox that most American history and most American literature is today written from an essentially egocentric and isolationistic point of view at the very time America is spreading her dominion over palm and pine .
After all , the average American as he lies and waits for the enemy in Korea or as she scans the newspaper in some vain hope of personal contact with the front is unconcerned that his or her plight is the result of a complex of personal , economic and governmental actions far beyond the normal citizen's comprehension and control .
Anyone's identification with an international struggle , whether warlike or peaceful , requires absurd oversimplification and intense emotional involvement .
Such identification comes for each group in each crisis by rewriting history into legend and developing appropriate national heroes .
In America , such self-deception has served a particularly useful purpose .
A heterogeneous people have needed it to attain an element of cultural and political cohesion in a new and ever-changing land .
But we must never forget , most of the appropriate heroes and their legends were created overnight , to answer immediate needs , almost always with conscious aims and ends .
Parson Weems's George Washington became the symbol of honesty and the father image of the uniting States .
Abraham Lincoln emerged as an incarnation of the national Constitution .
Robert E. Lee represented the dignity needed by a rebelling confederacy .
And their roles are paralleled by those of Patrick Henry , Nathan Hale , Andrew Jackson , Davy Crockett , Theodore Roosevelt and many , many more .
Therefore , the scholar , as he looks at our national folklore of the last 60 years , will be mindful of two facts .
1 ) Most of the legends that are created to fan the fires of patriotism are essentially propagandistic and are not folk legends at all .
2 ) The concept that an `` American national folklore '' exists is itself probably another propagandistic legend .
Folklore is individually created art that a homogeneous group of people preserve , vary and recreate through oral transmission .
It has come to mean myths , legends , tales , songs , proverbs , riddles , superstitions , rhymes and such literary forms of expression .
Related to written literature , and often remaining temporarily frozen in written form , it loses its vitality when transcribed or removed from its oral existence .
Though it may exist in either literate or illiterate societies , it assumes a role of true cultural importance only in the latter .
In its propagandistic and commercial haste to discover our folk heritage , the public has remained ignorant of definitions such as this .
Enthusiastically , Americans have swept subliterary and bogus materials like Paul Bunyan tales , Abe Lincoln anecdotes and labor union songs up as true products of our American oral tradition .
Nor have we remembered that in the melting pot of America the hundreds of isolated and semi-isolated ethnic , regional and occupational groups did not fuse into a homogeneous national unit until long after education and industrialization had caused them to cast oral tradition aside as a means of carrying culturally significant material .
Naturally , such scholarly facts are of little concern to the man trying to make money or fan patriotism by means of folklore .
That much of what he calls folklore is the result of beliefs carefully sown among the people with the conscious aim of producing a desired mass emotional reaction to a particular situation or set of situations is irrelevant .
As long as his material is Americana , can in some way be ascribed to the masses and appears `` democratic '' to his audience , he remains satisfied .
From all this we can now see that two streams of development run through the history of twentieth-century American folklore .
On the one side we have the university professors and their students , trained in Teutonic methods of research , who have sought out , collected and studied the true products of the oral traditions of the ethnic , regional and occupational groups that make up this nation .
On the other we have the flag-wavers and the national sentimentalists who have been willing to use any patriotic , `` frontier western '' or colonial material willy-nilly .
Unfortunately , few of the artists ( writers , movie producers , dramatists and musicians ) who have used American folklore since 1900 have known enough to distinguish between the two streams even in the most general of ways .
After all , the field is large , difficult to define and seldom taught properly to American undergraduates .
In addition , this country has been settled by many peoples of many heritages and their lore has become acculturated slowly , in an age of print and easy communication , within an ever-expanding and changing society .
The problems confuse even the experts .
For that matter , the experts themselves are a mixed breed .
Anthropologists , housewives , historians and such by profession , they approach their discipline as amateurs , collectors , commercial propagandists , analysts or some combination of the four .
They have widely varying backgrounds and aims .
They have little `` esprit de corps '' .
The outlook for the amateur , for instance , is usually dependent on his fondness for local history or for the picturesque .
His love of folklore has romanticism in it , and he doesn't care much about the dollar-sign or the footnote .
Folklore is his hobby , and he , all too rightly , wishes it to remain as such .
The amateur is closely related to the collector , who is actually no more than the amateur who has taken to the field .
The collector enjoys the contact with rural life ; ;
he hunts folklore for the very `` field and stream '' reasons that many persons hunt game ; ;
and only rarely is he acutely concerned with the meaning of what he has located .
Fundamentally , both these types , the amateur and the collector , are uncritical and many of them don't distinguish well between real folklore and bogus material .
But there are also the commercial propagandists and the analysts -- one dominated by money , the other by nineteenth-century German scholarship .
Both are primarily concerned with the uses that can be made of the material that the collector has found .
Both shudder at the thought of proceeding too far beyond the sewage system and the electric light lines .
The commercial propagandist , who can't afford to be critical , gets along well with the amateur , from whom he feeds , but he frequently steps on the analyst's toes by refusing to keep his material genuine .
His standards are , of course , completely foreign to those of the analyst .
To both the amateur and the commercial progandist the analyst lacks a soul , lacks appreciation with his endless probings and classifications .
Dominated by the vicious circle of the university promotion system , the analyst looks down on and gets along poorly with the other three groups , although he cannot deny his debt to the collector .
The knowledge that most Americans have of folklore comes through contact with commercial propagandists and a few energetic amateurs and collectors .
The work done by the analysts , the men who really know what folklore is all about , has no more appeal than any other work of a truly scientific sort and reaches a limited , learned audience .
Publishers want books that will sell , recording studios want discs that will not seem strange to ears used to hillbilly and jazz music , grade and high schools want quaint , but moral , material .
The analyst is apt to be too honest to fit in .
As a result , most people don't have more than a vague idea what folklore actually is ; ;
they see it as a potpourri of charming , moral legends and patriotic anecdotes , with a superstition or remedy thrown in here and there .
And so well is such ignorance preserved by the amateur and the money-maker that even at the college level most of the hundred-odd folklore courses given in the United States survive on sentiment and nationalism alone .
If one wishes to discuss a literary figure who uses folklore in his work , the first thing he must realize is that the literary figure is probably part of this ignorant American public .
And while every writer must be dealt with as a special case , the interested student will want to ask himself a number of questions about each .
Does the writer know the difference between an `` ersatz '' ballad or tall tale and a true product of the folk ? ?
When the writer uses material does he tamper with it to improve its commercial effect or does he leave it pure ? ?
Is the writer propagandistic ? ?
Is he swept away by sentiment and nostalgia for an America that was ? ?
Or does he sincerely want to tap the real springs of American attitude and culture regardless of how unpopular and embarrassing they may be ? ?
When he gets the answers to his questions he will be discouraged .
In the first place , a good many writers who are said to use folklore , do not , unless one counts an occasional superstition or tale .
Robert Frost , for instance , writes about rural life in New England , but he does not include any significant amount of folklore in his poems .
This has not , however , prevented publishers from labeling him a `` folk poet '' , simply because he is a rural one .
In the second place , a large number of writers , making a more direct claim than Frost to being `` folk writers '' of one sort or another , clearly make no distinctions between genuine and bogus material .
Stephen Vincent Benet's John Brown's Body comes immediately to mind in this connection , as does John Steinbeck's The Grapes Of Wrath and Carl Sandburg's The People , Yes .
The last two writers introduce strong political bias into their works , and not unlike the union leaders that we will discuss soon , see folklore as a reservoir of protest by a downtrodden and publically silenced mass .
Folklore , as used by such writers , really reflects images engraved into it by the very person using it .
The folk are simply not homogeneous with respect to nation or political attitude .
In fact , there is much evidence to indicate they don't care a bit about anything beyond their particular regional , ethnic and occupational limits .
Nevertheless , with a reading public that longs for the `` good old days '' and with an awareness of our expanding international interests , it is easy for the Benets to obtain a magnified position in literature by use of all sorts of Americana , real or fake , and it is easy for the Steinbecks and Sandburgs to support their messages of reform by reading messages of reform into the minds of the folk .
As part of the same arrangement , Torrio had , in the spirit of peace and good will , and in exchange for armed support in the April election campaign , bestowed upon O'Banion a third share in the Hawthorne Smoke Shop proceeds and a cut in the Cicero beer trade .
The coalition was to prove inadvisable .
O'Banion was a complex and frightening man , whose bright blue eyes stared with a kind of frozen candour into others' .
He had a round , frank Irish face , creased in a jovial grin that stayed bleakly in place even when he was pumping bullets into someone's body .
He carried three guns -- one in the right trouser pocket , one under his left armpit , one in the left outside coat pocket -- and was equally lethal with both hands .
He killed accurately , freely , and dispassionately .
The police credited him with twenty-five murders but he was never brought to trial for one of them .
Like a fair number of bootleggers he disliked alcohol .
He was an expert florist , tenderly dextrous in the arrangement of bouquets and wreaths .
He had no apparent comprehension of morality ; ;
he divided humanity into `` right guys '' and `` wrong guys '' , and the wrong ones he was always willing to kill and trample under .
He had what was described by a psychologist as a `` sunny brutality '' .
He walked with a heavy list to the right , as that leg was four inches shorter than the other , but the lurch did not reduce his feline quickness with his guns .
Landesco thought him `` just a superior sort of plugugly '' but he was , in fact , with his aggression and hostility , and nerveless indifference to risking or administering pain , a casebook psychopath .
He was also at this time , although not so interwoven in high politics and the rackets as Torrio and Capone , the most powerful and most dangerous mob leader in the Chicago underworld , the roughneck king .
O'Banion was born in poverty , the son of an immigrant Irish plasterer , in the North Side's Little Hell , close by the Sicilian quarter and Death Corner .
He had been a choir boy at the Holy Name Cathedral and also served as an acolyte to Father O'Brien .
The influence of Mass was less pervasive than that of the congested , slum tenements among the bawdy houses , honkytonks , and sawdust saloons of his birthplace ; ;
he ran wild with the child gangs of the neighbourhood , and went through the normal pressure-cooker course of thieving , police-dodging , and housebreaking .
At the age of ten , when he was working as a newsboy in the Loop , he was knocked down by a streetcar which resulted in his permanently shortened leg .
Because of this he was known as Gimpy ( but , as with Capone and his nickname of Scarface , never in his presence ) .
In his teens O'Banion was enrolled in the vicious Market Street gang and he became a singing waiter in McGovern's Cafe , a notoriously low and rowdy dive in North Clark Street , where befuddled customers were methodically looted of their money by the singing waiters before being thrown out .
He then got a job with the Chicago Herald-Examiner as a circulation slugger , a rough fighter employed to see that his paper's news pitches were not trespassed upon by rival vendors .
He was also at the same time gaining practical experience as a safe breaker and highwayman , and learning how to shoot to kill from a Neanderthal convicted murderer named Gene Geary , later committed to Chester Asylum as a homicidal maniac , but whose eyes misted with tears when the young Dion sang a ballad about an Irish mother in his clear and syrupy tenor .
O'Banion's first conflict with the police came in 1909 , at seventeen , when he was committed to Bridewell Prison for three months for burglary ; ;
two years later he served another three months for assault .
Those were his only interludes behind bars , although he collected four more charges on his police record in 1921 and 1922 , three for burglary and one for robbery .
But by now O'Banion's political pull was beginning to be effective .
On the occasion of his 1922 indictment the $10,000 bond was furnished by an alderman , and the charge was nolle prossed .
On one of his 1921 ventures he was actually come upon by a Detective Sergeant John J. Ryan down on his knees with a tool embedded in a labour office safe in the Postal Telegraph Building ; ;
the jury wanted better evidence than that and he was acquitted , at a cost of $30,000 in bribes , it was estimated .
As promptly as Torrio , O'Banion jumped into bootlegging .
He conducted it with less diplomacy and more spontaneous violence than the Sicilians , but he had his huge North Side portion to exploit and he made a great deal of money .
Unlike the Sicilians , he additionally conducted holdups , robberies , and safe-cracking expeditions , and refused to touch prostitution .
He was also personally active in ward politics , and by 1924 O'Banion had acquired sufficient political might to be able to state : `` I always deliver my borough as per requirements '' .
But whose requirements ? ?
Until 1924 O'Banion pistoleers and knuckle-duster bullyboys had kept his North Side domain solidly Democratic .
There was a question-and-answer gag that went around at that time : Q. `` Who'll carry the Forty-second and Forty-third wards '' ? ?
A. O'Banion , in his pistol pocket '' .
But as November 1924 drew close the Democratic hierarchy was sorely troubled by grapevine reports that O'Banion was being wooed by the opposition , and was meeting and conferring with important Republicans .
To forestall any change of allegiance , the Democrats hastily organised a testimonial banquet for O'Banion , as public reward for his past services and as a reminder of where his loyalties lay .
The reception was held in a private dining room of the Webster Hotel on Lincoln Park West .
It was an interesting fraternisation of ex-convicts , union racketeers , ward heelers , sold-out officials , and gunmen .
The guest list is in itself a little parable of the state of American civic life at this time .
It included the top O'Banion men and Chief of Detectives Michael Hughes .
When Mayor Dever heard of the banquet he summoned Hughes for an explanation of why he had been dishonouring the police department by consorting with these felons and fixers .
Hughes said that he had understood the party was to be in honour of Jerry O'Connor , the proprieter of a Loop gambling house .
`` But when I arrived and recognised a number of notorious characters I had thrown into the detective bureau basement half a dozen times , I knew I had been framed , and withdrew almost at once '' .
In fact , O'Connor was honoured during the ceremony with the presentation of a $2500 diamond stickpin .
There was a brief interruption while one of O'Banion's men jerked out both his guns and threatened to shoot a waiter who was pestering him for a tip .
Then O'Banion was presented with a platinum watch set with rubies and diamonds .
This dinner was the start of a new blatancy in the relationship between the gangs and the politicians , which , prior to 1924 , says Pasley , `` had been maintained with more or less stealth '' , but which henceforth was marked by these ostentatious gatherings , denounced by a clergyman as `` Belshazzar feasts '' , at which `` politicians fraternized cheek by jowl with gangsters , openly , in the big downtown hotels '' .
Pasley continued : `` They became an institution of the Chicago scene and marked the way to the moral and financial collapse of the municipal and county governments in 1928-29 '' .
However , this inaugural feast did its sponsors no good whatever .
O'Banion accepted his platinum watch and the tributes to his loyalty , and proceeded with the bigger and better Republican deal .
On Election Day -- November 4 -- he energetically marshalled his force of bludgeon men , bribers , and experts in forging repeat votes .
The result was a landslide for the Republican candidates .
This further demonstration of O'Banion's ballooning power did not please Torrio and Capone .
In the past year there had been too many examples of his euphoric self-confidence and self-aggrandisement for their liking .
He behaved publicly with a cocky , swaggering truculence that offended their vulpine Latin minds , and behaved towards them personally with an unimpressed insolence that enraged them beneath their blandness .
They were disturbed by his idiotic bravado -- as , when his bodyguard , Yankee Schwartz , complained that he had been snubbed by Dave Miller , a prize-fight referee , chieftain of a Jewish gang and one of four brothers of tough reputation , who were Hirschey , a gambler-politician in loose beer-running league with Torrio and O'Banion , Frank , a policeman , and Max , the youngest .
To settle this slight , O'Banion went down to the La Salle Theatre in the Loop , where , he had learned , Dave Miller was attending the opening of a musical comedy .
At the end of the performance , Dave and Max came out into the brilliantly lit foyer among a surge of gowned and tuxedoed first nighters .
O'Banion drew his guns and fired at Dave , severely wounding him in the stomach .
A second bullet ricocheted off Max's belt buckle , leaving him unhurt but in some distress .
O'Banion tucked away his gun and walked out of the theatre ; ;
he was neither prosecuted nor even arrested .
That sort of braggadocio , for that sort of reason , in the view of Torrio and Capone , was a nonsense .
A further example of the incompatible difference in personalities was when two policemen held up a Torrio beer convoy on a West Side street and demanded $300 to let it through .
One of the beer-runners telephoned O'Banion -- on a line tapped by the detective bureau -- and reported the situation .
O'Banion's reaction was : `` Three hundred dollars ! !
To them bums ? ?
Why , I can get them knocked off for half that much '' .
Upon which the detective bureau despatched rifle squads to prevent trouble if O'Banion should send his gunmen out to deal with the hijacking policemen .
But in the meantime the beer-runner , unhappy with this solution , telephoned Torrio and returned to O'Banion with the message : `` Say , Dionie , I just been talking to Johnny , and he said to let them cops have the three hundred .
He says he don't want no trouble '' .
But Torrio and Capone had graver cause to hate and distrust the Irishman .
For three years , since the liquor territorial conference , Torrio had , with his elastic patience , and because he knew that retaliation could cause only violent warfare and disaster to business , tolerated O'Banion's impudent double-crossing .
They had suffered , in sulky silence , the sight of his sharp practice in Cicero .
When , as a diplomatic gesture of amity and in payment for the loan of gunmen in the April election , Torrio had given O'Banion a slice of Cicero , the profits from that district had been $20,000 a month .
In six months O'Banion had boosted the profits to $100,000 a month -- mainly by bringing pressure to bear on fifty Chicago speak-easy proprietors to shift out to the suburb .
These booze customers had until then been buying their supplies from the Sheldon , Saltis-McErlane , and Druggan-Lake gangs , and now they were competing for trade with the Torrio-Capone saloons ; ;
once again O'Banion's brash recklessness had caused a proliferation of ill will .
The revenue from O'Banion's Cicero territory went up still higher , until the yield was more than the Torrio-Capone takings from the far bigger trade area of Chicago's South and West Sides .
But he still showed no intention of sharing with the syndicate .
At last , even the controlled Torrio was unable to hold still , and he tentatively suggested that O'Banion should take a percentage in the Stickney brothels in return for one from his Cicero beer concession .
O'Banion's reply was a raucous laugh and a flat refusal .
Still more jealous bitterness was engendered by the O'Banion gang's seizure from a West Side marshalling yard of a freight-car load of Canadian whisky worth $100,000 and by one of the biggest coups of the Prohibition era -- the Sibley warehouse robbery , which became famous for the cool brazenness of the operation .
Here was stored $1,000,000 worth of bonded whisky .
These 1750 cases were carted off in a one-night operation by the O'Banion men , who left in their stead the same number of barrels filled with water .
A tsunami may be started by a sea bottom slide , an earthquake or a volcanic eruption .
The most infamous of all was launched by the explosion of the island of Krakatoa in 1883 ; ;
it raced across the Pacific at 300 miles an hour , devastated the coasts of Java and Sumatra with waves 100 to 130 feet high , and pounded the shore as far away as San Francisco .
The ancient Greeks recorded several catastrophic inundations by huge waves .
Whether or not Plato's tale of the lost continent of Atlantis is true , skeptics concede that the myth may have some foundation in a great tsunami of ancient times .
Indeed , a tremendously destructive tsunami that arose in the Arabian Sea in 1945 has even revived the interest of geologists and archaeologists in the Biblical story of the Flood .
One of the most damaging tsunami on record followed the famous Lisbon earthquake of November 1 , 1755 ; ;
its waves persisted for a week and were felt as far away as the English coast .
Tsunami are rare , however , in the Atlantic Ocean ; ;
they are far more common in the Pacific .
Japan has had 15 destructive ones ( eight of them disastrous ) since 1596 .
The Hawaiian Islands are struck severely an average of once every 25 years .
In 1707 an earthquake in Japan generated waves so huge that they piled into the Inland Sea ; ;
one wave swamped more than 1,000 ships and boats in Osaka Bay .
A tsunami in the Hawaiian Islands in 1869 washed away an entire town ( Ponoluu ) , leaving only two forlorn trees standing where the community had been .
In 1896 a Japanese tsunami killed 27,000 people and swept away 10,000 homes .
The dimensions of these waves dwarf all our usual standards of measurement .
An ordinary sea wave is rarely more than a few hundred feet long from crest to crest -- no longer than 320 feet in the Atlantic or 1,000 feet in the Pacific .
But a tsunami often extends more than 100 miles and sometimes as much as 600 miles from crest to crest .
While a wind wave never travels at more than 60 miles per hour , the velocity of a tsunami in the open sea must be reckoned in hundreds of miles per hour .
The greater the depth of the water , the greater is the speed of the wave ; ;
Lagrange's law says that its velocity is equal to the square root of the product of the depth times the acceleration due to gravity .
In the deep waters of the Pacific these waves reach a speed of 500 miles per hour .
Tsunami are so shallow in comparison with their length that in the open ocean they are hardly detectable .
Their amplitude sometimes is as little as two feet from trough to crest .
Usually it is only when they approach shallow water on the shore that they build up to their terrifying heights .
On the fateful day in 1896 when the great waves approached Japan , fishermen at sea noticed no unusual swells .
Not until they sailed home at the end of the day , through a sea strewn with bodies and the wreckage of houses , were they aware of what had happened .
The seemingly quiet ocean had crashed a wall of water from 10 to 100 feet high upon beaches crowded with bathers , drowning thousands of them and flattening villages along the shore .
The giant waves are more dangerous on flat shores than on steep ones .
They usually range from 20 to 60 feet in height , but when they pour into a V-shaped inlet or harbor they may rise to mountainous proportions .
Generally the first salvo of a tsunami is a rather sharp swell , not different enough from an ordinary wave to alarm casual observers .
This is followed by a tremendous suck of water away from the shore as the first great trough arrives .
Reefs are left high and dry , and the beaches are covered with stranded fish .
At Hilo large numbers of people ran out to inspect the amazing spectacle of the denuded beach .
Many of them paid for their curiosity with their lives , for some minutes later the first giant wave roared over the shore .
After an earthquake in Japan in 1793 people on the coast at Tugaru were so terrified by the extraordinary ebbing of the sea that they scurried to higher ground .
When a second quake came , they dashed back to the beach , fearing that they might be buried under landslides .
Just as they reached the shore , the first huge wave crashed upon them .
A tsunami is not a single wave but a series .
The waves are separated by intervals of 15 minutes to an hour or more ( because of their great length ) , and this has often lulled people into thinking after the first great wave has crashed that it is all over .
The waves may keep coming for many hours .
Usually the third to the eighth waves in the series are the biggest .
Among the observers of the 1946 tsunami at Hilo was Francis P. Shepard of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography , one of the world's foremost marine geologists .
He was able to make a detailed inspection of the waves .
Their onrush and retreat , he reported , was accompanied by a great hissing , roaring and rattling .
The third and fourth waves seemed to be the highest .
On some of the islands' beaches the waves came in gently ; ;
they were steepest on the shores facing the direction of the seaquake from which the waves had come .
In Hilo Bay they were from 21 to 26 feet high .
The highest waves , 55 feet , occurred at Pololu Valley .
Scientists and fishermen have occasionally seen strange by-products of the phenomenon .
During a 1933 tsunami in Japan the sea glowed brilliantly at night .
The luminosity of the water is now believed to have been caused by the stimulation of vast numbers of the luminescent organism Noctiluca miliaris by the turbulence of the sea .
Japanese fishermen have sometimes observed that sardines hauled up in their nets during a tsunami have enormously swollen stomachs ; ;
the fish have swallowed vast numbers of bottom-living diatoms , raised to the surface by the disturbance .
The waves of a 1923 tsunami in Sagami Bay brought to the surface and battered to death huge numbers of fishes that normally live at a depth of 3,000 feet .
Gratified fishermen hauled them in by the thousands .
The tsunami-warning system developed since the 1946 disaster in Hawaii relies mainly on a simple and ingenious instrument devised by Commander C. K. Green of the Coast and Geodetic Survey staff .
It consists of a series of pipes and a pressure-measuring chamber which record the rise and fall of the water surface .
Ordinary water tides are disregarded .
But when waves with a period of between 10 and 40 minutes begin to roll over the ocean , they set in motion a corresponding oscillation in a column of mercury which closes an electric circuit .
This in turn sets off an alarm , notifying the observers at the station that a tsunami is in progress .
Such equipment has been installed at Hilo , Midway , Attu and Dutch Harbor .
The moment the alarm goes off , information is immediately forwarded to Honolulu , which is the center of the warning system .
This center also receives prompt reports on earthquakes from four Coast Survey stations in the Pacific which are equipped with seismographs .
Its staff makes a preliminary determination of the epicenter of the quake and alerts tide stations near the epicenter for a tsunami .
By means of charts showing wave-travel times and depths in the ocean at various locations , it is possible to estimate the rate of approach and probable time of arrival at Hawaii of a tsunami getting under way at any spot in the Pacific .
The civil and military authorities are then advised of the danger , and they issue warnings and take all necessary protective steps .
All of these activities are geared to a top-priority communication system , and practice tests have been held to assure that everything will work smoothly .
Since the 1946 disaster there have been 15 tsunami in the Pacific , but only one was of any consequence .
On November 4 , 1952 , an earthquake occurred under the sea off the Kamchatka Peninsula .
At 17:07 that afternoon ( Greenwich time ) the shock was recorded by the seismograph alarm in Honolulu .
The warning system immediately went into action .
Within about an hour with the help of reports from seismic stations in Alaska , Arizona and California , the quake's epicenter was placed at 51 degrees North latitude and 158 degrees East longitude .
While accounts of the progress of the tsunami came in from various points in the Pacific ( Midway reported it was covered with nine feet of water ) , the Hawaiian station made its calculations and notified the military services and the police that the first big wave would arrive at Honolulu at 23:30 Greenwich time .
It turned out that the waves were not so high as in 1946 .
They hurled a cement barge against a freighter in Honolulu Harbor , knocked down telephone lines , marooned automobiles , flooded lawns , killed six cows .
But not a single human life was lost , and property damage in the Hawaiian Islands did not exceed $800,000 .
There is little doubt that the warning system saved lives and reduced the damage .
But it is plain that a warning system , however efficient , is not enough .
In the vulnerable areas of the Pacific there should be restrictions against building homes on exposed coasts , or at least a requirement that they be either raised off the ground or anchored strongly against waves .
The key to the world of geology is change ; ;
nothing remains the same .
Life has evolved from simple combinations of molecules in the sea to complex combinations in man .
The land , too , is changing , and earthquakes are daily reminders of this .
Earthquakes result when movements in the earth twist rocks until they break .
Sometimes this is accompanied by visible shifts of the ground surface ; ;
often the shifts cannot be seen , but they are there ; ;
and everywhere can be found scars of earlier breaks once deeply buried .
Today's earthquakes are most numerous in belts where the earth's restlessness is presently concentrated , but scars of the past show that there is no part of the earth that has not had them .
The effects of earthquakes on civilization have been widely publicized , even overemphasized .
The role of an earthquake in starting the destruction of whole cities is tremendously frightening , but fire may actually be the principal agent in a particular disaster .
Superstition has often blended with fact to color reports .
We have learned from earthquakes much of what we now know about the earth's interior , for they send waves through the earth which emerge with information about the materials through which they have traveled .
These waves have shown that 1,800 miles below the surface a liquid core begins , and that it , in turn , has a solid inner core .
Earthquakes originate as far as 400 miles below the surface , but they do not occur at greater depths .
Two unsolved mysteries are based on these facts .
( 1 ) As far down as 400 miles below the surface the material should be hot enough to be plastic and adjust itself to twisting forces by sluggish flow rather than by breaking , as rigid surface rocks do .
( 2 ) If earthquakes do occur at such depths , why not deeper ? ?
Knowledge gained from studying earthquake waves has been applied in various fields .
In the search for oil and gas , we make similar waves under controlled conditions with dynamite and learn from them where there are buried rock structures favorable to the accumulation of these resources .
We have also developed techniques for recognizing and locating underground nuclear tests through the waves in the ground which they generate .
The following discussion of this subject has been adapted from the book Causes Of Catastrophe by L. Don Leet .
The restless earth and its interior
At twelve minutes after five on the morning of Wednesday , April 18 , 1906 , San Francisco was shaken by a severe earthquake .
A sharp tremor was followed by a jerky roll .
In Ireland's County Limerick , near the River Shannon , there is a quiet little suburb by the name of Garryowen , which means `` Garden of Owen '' .
Undoubtedly none of the residents realize the influence their town has had on American military history , or the deeds of valor that have been done in its name .
The cry `` Garryowen '' ! !
Bursting from the lips of a charging cavalry trooper was the last sound heard on this earth by untold numbers of Cheyennes , Sioux and Apaches , Mexican banditos under Pancho Villa , Japanese in the South Pacific , and Chinese and North Korean Communists in Korea .
Garryowen is the battle cry of the 7th U.S. Cavalry Regiment , `` The Fighting Seventh '' .
Today a battle cry may seem an anachronism , for in the modern Army , esprit de corps has been sacrificed to organizational charts and tables .
But don't tell that to a veteran of the Fighting Seventh , especially in a saloon on Saturday night .
Of all the thousands of men who have served in the 7th Cav , perhaps no one knows its spirit better than Lieutenant Colonel Melbourne C. Chandler .
Wiry and burr-headed , with steel blue eyes and a chest splattered with medals , Chandler is the epitome of the old-time trooper .
The truth is , however , that when Mel Chandler first reported to the regiment the only steed he had ever ridden was a swivel chair and the only weapon he had ever wielded was a pencil .
Chandler had been commissioned in the Medical Service Corps and was serving as a personnel officer for the Kansas City Medical Depot when he decided that if he was going to make the Army his career , he wanted to be in the fighting part of it .
Though he knew no more about military science and tactics than any other desk officer , he managed to get transferred to the combat forces .
The next thing he knew he was reporting for duty as commanding officer of Troop H , 7th Cavalry , in the middle of corps maneuvers in Japan .
Outside of combat , he couldn't have landed in a tougher spot .
First of all , no unit likes to have a new CO brought in from the outside , especially when he's an armchair trooper .
Second , if there is ever a perfect time to pull the rug out from under him , it's on maneuvers .
In combat , helping your CO make a fool of himself might mean getting yourself killed .
But in maneuvers , with the top brass watching him all the time , it's easy .
Chandler understood this and expected the worst .
But his first few days with Troop H were full of surprises , beginning with First Sergeant Robert Early .
Chandler had expected a tough old trooper with a gravel voice .
Instead Sergeant Early was quiet , sharp and confident .
He had enlisted in the Army straight out of high school and had immediately set about learning his new trade .
There was no weapon Early could not take apart and reassemble blind-folded .
He could lead a patrol and he knew his paper work .
Further , he had taken full advantage of the Army's correspondence courses .
He not only knew soldiering , but mathematics , history and literature as well .
But for all his erudite confidence , Sergeant Early was right out of the Garryowen mold .
He was filled with the spirit of the Fighting Seventh .
That saved Mel Chandler .
Sergeant Early let the new CO know just how lucky he was to be in the best troop in the best regiment in the United States Army .
He fed the captain bits of history about the troops and the regiment .
For example , it was a battalion of the 7th Cavalry under Colonel George Armstrong Custer that had been wiped out at the Battle of The Little Big Horn .
It didn't take Captain Chandler long to realize that he had to carry a heavy load of tradition on his shoulders as commander of Troop Aj .
But what made the load lighter was the realization that every officer , non-com and trooper was ready and willing to help him carry it , for the good of the troop and the regiment .
Maneuvers over , the 7th returned to garrison duty in Tokyo , Captain Chandler still with them .
It was the 7th Cavalry whose troopers were charged with guarding the Imperial Palace of the Emperor .
But still Mel Chandler was not completely convinced that men would really die for a four-syllable word , `` Garryowen '' .
The final proof was a small incident .
It happened at the St. Patrick's Day party , a big affair for a regiment which had gone into battle for over three-quarters of a century to the strains of an Irish march .
In the middle of the party Chandler looked up to see four smiling faces bearing down upon him , each beaming above the biggest , greenest shamrock he had ever seen .
The faces belonged to Lieutenant Marvin Goulding , his wife and their two children .
And when the singing began , it was the Gouldings who sang the old Irish songs the best .
Though there was an occasional good-natured chuckle about Marvin Goulding , the Jewish officer from Chicago , singing tearfully about the ould sod , no one really thought it was strange .
For Marvin Goulding , like Giovanni Martini , the bugler boy who carried Custer's last message , or Margarito Lopez , the one-man Army on Leyte , was a Garryowen , through and through .
It was no coincidence that Goulding was one of the most beloved platoon leaders in the regiment .
And so Mel Chandler got the spirit of Garryowen .
He set out to keep Troop H the best troop in the best regiment .
One of his innovations was to see to it that every man -- cook and clerk as well as rifleman -- qualified with every weapon in the troop .
Even the mess sergeant , Bill Brown , a dapper , cocky transfer from an airborne division , went out on the range .
The troop received a new leader , Lieutenant Robert M. Carroll , fresh out of ROTC and bucking for Regular Army status .
Carroll was sharp and military , but he was up against tough competition for that RA berth , and he wanted to play it cool .
So Mel Chandler set out to sell him on the spirit of Garryowen , just as he himself had been sold a short time before .
When the Korean war began , on June 25 , 1950 , the anniversary of the day Custer had gone down fighting at the Little Big Horn and the day the regiment had assaulted the beachhead of Leyte during World War 2 , , the 7th Cavalry was not in the best fighting condition .
Its entire complement of non-commissioned officers on the platoon level had departed as cadre for another unit , and its vehicles were still those used in the drive across Luzon in World War 2 .
Just a month after the Korean War broke out , the 7th Cavalry was moving into the lines , ready for combat .
From then on the Fighting Seventh was in the thick of the bitterest fighting in Korea .
One night on the Naktong River , Mel Chandler called on that fabled esprit de corps .
The regiment was dug in on the east side of the river and the North Koreans were steadily building up a concentration of crack troops on the other side .
The troopers knew an attack was coming , but they didn't know when , and they didn't know where .
At 6 o'clock on the morning of August 12 , they were in doubt no longer .
Then it came , against Troop Aj .
The enemy had filtered across the river during the night and a full force of 1000 men , armed with Russian machine guns , attacked the position held by Chandler's men .
They came in waves .
First came the cannon fodder , white-clad civilians being driven into death as a massive human battering ram .
They were followed by crack North Korean troops , who mounted one charge after another .
They overran the 7th Cav's forward machine-gun positions through sheer weight of numbers , over piles of their own dead .
Another force flanked the company and took up a position on a hill to the rear .
Captain Chandler saw that it was building up strength .
He assembled a group of 25 men , composed of wounded troopers awaiting evacuation , the company clerk , supply men , cooks and drivers , and led them to the hill .
One of the more seriously wounded was Lieutenant Carroll , the young officer bucking for the Regular Army .
Chandler left Carroll at the bottom of the hill to direct any reinforcements he could find to the fight .
Then Mel Chandler started up the hill .
He took one step , two , broke into a trot and then into a run .
The first thing he knew the words `` Garryowen '' ! !
Burst from his throat .
His followers shouted the old battle cry after him and charged the hill , firing as they ran .
The Koreans fell back , but regrouped at the top of the hill and pinned down the cavalrymen with a screen of fire .
Chandler , looking to right and left to see how his men were faring , suddenly saw another figure bounding up the hill , hurling grenades and hollering the battle cry as he ran .
It was Bob Carroll , who had suddenly found himself imbued with the spirit of Garryowen .
He had formed his own task force of three stragglers and led them up the hill in a Fighting Seventh charge .
Because of this diversionary attack the main group that had been pinned down on the hill was able to surge forward again .
But an enemy grenade hit Carroll in the head and detonated simultaneously .
He went down like a wet rag and the attackers hit the dirt in the face of the withering enemy fire .
Enemy reinforcements came pouring down , seeking a soft spot .
They found it at the junction between Troops H and G , and prepared to counterattack .
Marvin Goulding saw what was happening .
He turned to his platoon .
`` Okay , men '' , he said .
`` Follow me '' .
Goulding leaped to his feet and started forward , `` Garryowen '' ! !
On his lips , his men following .
But the bullets whacked home before he finished his battle cry and Marvin Goulding fell dead .
For an instant his men hesitated , unable to believe that their lieutenant , the most popular officer in the regiment , was dead .
Then they let out a bellow of anguish and rage and , cursing , screaming and hollering `` Garryowen '' ! !
They charged into the enemy like wild men .
That finished the job that Captain Chandler and Lieutenant Carroll had begun .
Goulding's platoon pushed back the enemy soldiers and broke up the timing of the entire enemy attack .
Reinforcements came up quickly to take advantage of the opening made by Goulding's platoon .
The North Koreans threw away their guns and fled across the rice paddies .
Artillery and air strikes were called in to kill them by the hundreds .
Though Bob Carroll seemed to have had his head practically blown off by the exploding grenade , he lived .
Today he is a major -- in the Regular Army .
So filled was Mel Chandler with the spirit of Garryowen that after Korea was over , he took on the job of writing the complete history of the regiment .
After years of digging , nights and weekends , he put together the big , profusely illustrated book , Of Garryowen And Glory , which is probably the most complete history of any military unit .
The battle of the Naktong River is just one example of how the battle cry and the spirit of The Fighting Seventh have paid off .
For nearly a century the cry has never failed to rally the fighting men of the regiment .
Take the case of Major Marcus A. Reno , who survived the Battle of The Little Big Horn in 1876 .
From the enlisted men he pistol-whipped to the subordinate officer whose wife he tried to rape , a lot of men had plenty of reason heartily to dislike Marcus Reno .
Many of his fellow officers refused to speak to him .
But when a board of inquiry was called to look into the charges of cowardice made against him , the men who had seen Reno leave the battlefield and the officer who had heard Reno suggest that the wounded be left to be tortured by the Sioux , refused to say a harsh word against him .
He was a member of The Fighting Seventh .
Although it was at the Battle of The Little Horn , about which more words have been written than any other battle in American history , that the 7th Cavalry first made its mark in history , the regiment was ten years old by then .
Brevet Major General George Armstrong Custer was the regiment's first permanent commander and , like such generals as George S. Patton and Terry De La Mesa Allen in their rise to military prominence , Custer was a believer in blood and guts warfare .
During the Civil War , Custer , who achieved a brilliant record , was made brigadier general at the age of 23 .
He finished the war as a major general , commanding a full division , and at 25 was the youngest major general in the history of the U.S. Army .
I do not mean to suggest that these assumptions are self-evident , in the sense that everyone agrees with them .
If they were , Walter Lippmann would be writing the same columns as George Sokolsky , and Herb Lock would have nothing to draw cartoons about .
I do mean , however , that I take them for granted , and that everything I shall be saying would appear quite idiotic against any contrary assumptions .
Assumption 1 .
The ultimate objective of American policy is to help establish a world in which there is the largest possible measure of freedom and justice and peace and material prosperity ; ;
and in particular -- since this is our special responsibility -- that these conditions be enjoyed by the people of the United States .
I speak of `` the largest possible measure '' because any person who supposes that these conditions can be universally and perfectly achieved -- ever -- reckons without the inherent imperfectability of himself and his fellow human beings , and is therefore a dangerous man to have around .
Assumption 2 .
These conditions are unobtainable -- are not even approachable in the qualified sense I have indicated -- without the prior defeat of world Communism .
This is true for two reasons : because Communism is both doctrinally , and in practice , antithetical to these conditions ; ;
and because Communists have the will and , as long as Soviet power remains intact , the capacity to prevent their realization .
Moreover , as Communist power increases , the enjoyment of these conditions throughout the world diminishes pro rata and the possibility of their restoration becomes increasingly remote .
Assumption 3 .
It follows that victory over Communism is the dominant , proximate goal of American policy .
Proximate in the sense that there are more distant , more `` positive '' ends we seek , to which victory over Communism is but a means .
But dominant in the sense that every other objective , no matter how worthy intrinsically , must defer to it .
Peace is a worthy objective ; ;
but if we must choose between peace and keeping the Communists out of Berlin , then we must fight .
Freedom , in the sense of self-determination , is a worthy objective ; ;
but if granting self-determination to the Algerian rebels entails sweeping that area into the Sino-Soviet orbit , then Algerian freedom must be postponed .
Justice is a worthy objective ; ;
but if justice for Bantus entails driving the government of the Union of South Africa away from the West , then the Bantus must be prepared to carry their identification cards yet a while longer .
Prosperity is a worthy objective ; ;
but if providing higher standards of living gets in the way of producing sufficient guns to resist Communist aggression , then material sacrifices and denials will have to be made .
It may be , of course , that such objectives can be pursued consisently with a policy designed to overthrow Communism ; ;
my point is that where conflicts arise they must always be resolved in favor of achieving the indispensable condition for a tolerant world -- the absence of Soviet Communist power .
The uses of power
This much having been said , the question remains whether we have the resources for the job we have to do -- defeat Communism -- and , if so , how those resources ought to be used .
This brings us squarely to the problem of power , and the uses a nation makes of power .
I submit that this is the key problem of international relations , that it always has been , that it always will be .
And I suggest further that the main cause of the trouble we are in has been the failure of American policy-makers , ever since we assumed free world leadership in 1945 , to deal with this problem realistically and seriously .
In the recent political campaign two charges were leveled affecting the question of power , and I think we might begin by trying to put them into proper focus .
One was demonstrably false ; ;
the other , for the most part , true .
The first was that America had become -- or was in danger of becoming -- a second-rate military power .
I know I do not have to dwell here on the absurdity of that contention .
You may have misgivings about certain aspects of our military establishment -- I certainly do -- but you know any comparison of over-all American strength with over-all Soviet strength finds the United States not only superior , but so superior both in present weapons and in the development of new ones that our advantage promises to be a permanent feature of U.S.-Soviet relations for the foreseeable future .
I have often searched for a graphic way of impressing our superiority on those Americans who have doubts , and I think Mr. Jameson Campaigne has done it well in his new book American Might And Soviet Myth .
Suppose , he says , that the tables were turned , and we were in the Soviets' position : `` There would be more than 2,000 modern Soviet fighters , all better than ours , stationed at 250 bases in Mexico and the Caribbean .
Overwhelming Russian naval power would always be within a few hundred miles of our coast .
Half of the population of the U.S. would be needed to work on arms just to feed the people '' .
Add this to the unrest in the countries around us where oppressed peoples would be ready to turn on us at the first opportunity .
Add also a comparatively primitive industrial plant which would severely limit our capacity to keep abreast of the Soviets even in the missile field which is reputed to be our main strength .
If we look at the situation this way , we can get an idea of Khrushchev's nightmarish worries -- or , at least , of the worries he might have if his enemies were disposed to exploit their advantage .
U.S. `` prestige ''
The other charge was that America's political position in the world has progressively deteriorated in recent years .
The contention needs to be formulated with much greater precision than it ever was during the campaign , but once that has been done , I fail to see how any serious student of world affairs can quarrel with it .
The argument was typically advanced in terms of U.S. `` prestige '' .
Prestige , however , is only a minor part of the problem ; ;
and even then , it is a concept that can be highly misleading .
Prestige is a measure of how other people think of you , well or ill .
But contrary to what was implied during the campaign , prestige is surely not important for its own sake .
Only the vain and incurably sentimental among us will lose sleep simply because foreign peoples are not as impressed by our strength as they ought to be .
The thing to lose sleep over is what people , having concluded that we are weaker than we are , are likely to do about it .
The evidence suggests that foreign peoples believe the United States is weaker than the Soviet Union , and is bound to fall still further behind in the years ahead .
This ignorant estimate , I repeat , is not of any interest in itself ; ;
but it becomes very important if foreign peoples react the way human beings typically do -- namely , by taking steps to end up on what appears to be the winning side .
To the extent , then , that declining U.S. prestige means that other nations will be tempted to place their bets on an ultimate American defeat , and will thus be more vulnerable to Soviet intimidation , there is reason for concern .
Still , these guesses about the outcome of the struggle cannot be as important as the actual power relationship between the Soviet Union and ourselves .
Here I do not speak of military power where our advantage is obvious and overwhelming but of political power -- of influence , if you will -- about which the relevant questions are : Is Soviet influence throughout the world greater or less than it was ten years ago ? ?
And is Western influence greater or less than it used to be ? ?
Communist gains
In answering these questions , we need to ask not merely whether Communist troops have crossed over into territories they did not occupy before , and not merely whether disciplined agents of the Cominform are in control of governments from which they were formerly excluded : the success of Communism's war against the West does not depend on such spectacular and definitive conquests .
Success may mean merely the displacement of Western influence .
Communist political warfare , we must remember , is waged insidiously and in deliberate stages .
Fearful of inviting a military showdown with the West which they could not win , the Communists seek to undermine Western power where the nuclear might of the West is irrelevant -- in backwoods guerrilla skirmishes , in mob uprisings in the streets , in parliaments , in clandestine meetings of undercover conspirators , at the United Nations , on the propaganda front , at diplomatic conferences -- preferably at the highest level .
The Soviets understand , moreover , that the first step in turning a country toward Communism is to turn it against the West .
Thus , typically , the first stage of a Communist takeover is to `` neutralize '' a country .
The second stage is to retain the nominal classification of `` neutralist '' , while in fact turning the country into an active advocate and adherent of Soviet policy .
And this may be as far as the process will go .
The Kremlin's goal is the isolation and capture , not of Ghana , but of the United States -- and this purpose may be served very well by countries that masquerade under a `` neutralist '' mask , yet in fact are dependable auxiliaries of the Soviet Foreign Office .
To recite the particulars of recent Soviet successes is hardly reassuring .
Six years ago French Indochina , though in troubie , was in the Western camp .
Today Northern Vietnam is overtly Communist ; ;
Laos is teetering between Communism and pro-Communist neutralism ; ;
Cambodia is , for all practical purposes , neutralist .
Indonesia , in the early days of the Republic , leaned toward the West .
Today Sukarno's government is heavily besieged by avowed Communists , and for all of its `` neutralist '' pretensions , it is a firm ally of Soviet policy .
Ceylon has moved from a pro-Western orientation to a neutralism openly hostile to the West .
In the Middle East , Iraq , Syria and Egypt were , a short while ago , in the Western camp .
Today the Nasser and Kassem governments are adamantly hostile to the West , are dependent for their military power on Soviet equipment and personnel ; ;
in almost every particular follow the Kremlin's foreign policy line .
A short time ago all Africa was a Western preserve .
Never mind whether the Kikiyus and the Bantus enjoyed Wilsonian self-determination : the point is that in the struggle for the world that vast land mass was under the domination and influence of the West .
Today , Africa is swerving violently away from the West and plunging , it would seem , into the Soviet orbit .
Latin America was once an area as `` safe '' for the West as Nebraska was for Nixon .
Today it is up for grabs .
One Latin American country , Cuba , has become a Soviet bridgehead ninety miles off our coast .
In some countries the trend has gone further than others : Mexico , Panama , and Venezuela are displaying open sympathy for Castroism , and there is no country -- save the Dominican Republic whose funeral services we recently arranged -- where Castroism and Anti-Americanism does not prevent the government from unqualifiedly espousing the American cause .
Only in Europe have our lines remained firm -- and there only on the surface .
The strains of neutralism are running strong , notably in England , and even in Germany .
Opportunities missed
What have we to show by way of counter-successes ? ?
We have had opportunities -- clear invitations to plant our influence on the other side of the Iron Curtain .
There was the Hungarian Revolution which we praised and mourned , but did nothing about .
There was the Polish Revolution which we misunderstood and then helped guide along a course favorable to Soviet interests .
There was the revolution in Tibet which we pretended did not exist .
Only in one instance have we moved purposively and effectively to dislodge existing Communist power : in Guatemala .
And contrary to what has been said recently , we did not wait for `` outside pressures '' and `` world opinion '' to bring down that Communist government ; ;
we moved decisively to effect an Anti-Communist coup d'etat .
We served our national interests , and by so doing we saved the Guatemalan people the ultimate in human misery .
The first rattle of the machine guns , at 7:10 in the evening , roused around me the varied voices and faces of fear .
`` Sounds exactly like last time '' .
The young man spoke steadily enough , but all at once he looked grotesquely unshaven .
The middle-aged man said over and over , `` Why did I come here , why did I come here '' .
Then he was sick .
Amid the crackle of small arms and automatic weapons , I heard the thumping of mortars .
Then the lights went out .
This was my second day in Vientiane , the administrative capital of Laos , and my thoughts were none too brave .
Where was my flashlight ? ?
Where should I go ? ?
To my room ? ?
Better stay in the hotel lobby , where the walls looked good and thick .
Chinese and Indian merchants across the street were slamming their steel shutters .
Hotel attendants pulled parked bicycles into the lobby .
A woman with a small boy slipped in between them .
`` Please '' , she said , `` please '' .
She held out her hand to show that she had money .
The American newspaperman worried about getting to the cable office .
But what was the story ? ?
Had the Communist-led Pathet Lao finally come this far ? ?
Or was it another revolt inside Vientiane ? ?
`` Let's play hero '' , I said .
`` Let's go to the roof and see '' .
Gunfire saves the moon
By 7:50 the answer was plain .
There had been an eclipse of the moon .
A traditional Lao explanation is that the moon was being swallowed by a toad , and the remedy was to make all possible noise , ideally with firearms .
The din was successful , too , for just before the moon disappeared , the frightened toad had begun to spit it out again , which meant good luck all around .
How quaint it all seemed the next day .
A restaurant posted a reminder to patrons `` who became excited and left without paying their checks '' .
But everyone I met had sought cover first and asked questions later .
And no wonder , for Vientiane , the old City of Sandalwood , had become the City of Bullet Holes .
I saw holes in planes at the airport and in cars in the streets .
Along the main thoroughfares hardly a house had not been peppered .
In place of the police headquarters was a new square filled with rubble .
Mortars had demolished the defense ministry and set fire to the American Embassy next door .
What had been the ambassador's suite was now jagged walls of blackened brick .
This damage had been done in the battle of Vientiane , fought less than three months earlier when four successive governments had ruled here in three days ( December 9-11 , 1960 ) .
And now , in March , all Laos suffered a state of siege .
The Pathet Lao forces held two northern provinces and openly took the offensive in three more .
Throughout the land their hit-and-run terrorists spread fear of ambush and death .
`` And it's all the more tragic because it's so little deserved '' , said Mr. J. J. A. Frans , a Belgian official of the United Nations Educational , Scientific , and Cultural Organization .
We talked after I hailed his Jeep marked with the U.N. flag .
Practically all the people of Laos , he explained -- about two million of them -- are rice farmers , and the means and motives of modern war are as strange to them as clocks and steel plows .
They look after their fields and children and water buffaloes in ten or eleven thousand villages , with an average of 200 souls .
Nobody can tell more closely how many villages there are .
They spread over an area no larger than Oregon ; ;
yet they include peoples as different from one another as Oregonians are from Patagonians .
Life must be kept in harmony
`` .
What matters here is family loyalty ; ;
faith in the Buddha and staying at peace with the phis , the spirits ; ;
and to live in harmony with nature '' .
Harmony in Laos ? ?
`` Precisely '' , said Mr. Frans .
He spoke of the season of dryness and dust , brought by the monsoon from the northeast , in harmony with the season of rain and mud , brought by the monsoon from the southwest .
The slim pirogues in harmony with the majestically meandering Mekong River .
Shy , slender-waisted girls at the loom in harmony with the frangipani by the wayside .
Even life in harmony with death .
For so long as death was not violent , it was natural and to be welcomed , making a funeral a feast .
To many a Frenchman -- they came 95 years ago , colonized , and stayed until Laos became independent in 1953 -- the land had been even more delightfully tranquil than Tahiti .
Yet Laos was now one of the most explosive headaches of statesmen around the globe .
The Pathet Lao , stiffened by Communist Veterans from neighboring North Viet Nam , were supplied by Soviet aircraft .
The Royal Lao Army , on the other hand , was paid and equipped with American funds .
In six years , U.S. aid had amounted to more than $1.60 for each American -- a total of three hundred million dollars .
We were there at a moment when the situation in Laos threatened to ignite another war among the world's giants .
Even if it did not , how would this little world of gentle people cope with its new reality of grenades and submachine guns ? ?
To find out , we traveled throughout that part of Laos still nominally controlled , in the daytime at least , by the Royal Lao Army : from Attopeu , the City of Buffalo Dung in the southeast , to Muong Sing , the City of Lions in the northwest , close to Communist China ( map , page 250 ) .
We rode over roads so rough that our Jeep came to rest atop the soil between ruts , all four wheels spinning uselessly .
We flew in rickety planes so overloaded that we wondered why they didn't crash .
In the end we ran into Communist artillery fire .
`` We '' were Bill Garrett of the National Geographic Illustrations Staff , whose three cameras and eight lenses made him look as formidable as any fighting man we met ; ;
Boun My , our interpreter ; ;
and myself .
Boun My -- the name means one who has a boun , a celebration , and is therefore lucky -- was born in Savannakhet , the Border of Paradise .
He had attended three universities in the United States .
But he had never seen the mountainous half of his native land north of Vientiane , including the royal capital , Luang Prabang .
Before the airplanes came , he said , travel in Laos was just about impossible .
Prime minister moves fast
Alas , so it almost proved for us , too .
To go outside the few cities required permits .
And getting them seemed a life's work .
Nobody wanted Americans to be hurt or captured , and few soldiers could be spared as escorts .
We were told that to the Pathet Lao , a kidnaped American was worth at least $750 , a fortune in Laos .
Everyone had heard of the American contractor who had spurned an escort .
Now Pathet Lao propagandists were reported marching him barefoot from village to village , as evidence of evil American intervention .
Although we enjoyed our rounds of the government offices in Vientiane , with officials offering tea and pleasing conversation in French , we were getting nowhere .
We had nearly decided that all the tales of Lao lethargy must be true , when we were invited to take a trip with the Prime Minister .
Could we be ready in 15 minutes ? ?
His Highness had decided only two hours ago to go out of town , and he was eager to be off .
Prince wears ten-gallon hat
And so , after a flight southeast to Savannakhet , we found ourselves bouncing along in a Jeep right behind the Land-Rover of Prince Boun Oum of Champassak , a tall man of Churchillian mien in a bush jacket and a ten-gallon hat from Texas .
From his shoulder bag peeked the seven-inch barrel of a Luger .
The temperature rose to 105-degrees .
With our company of soldiers , we made one long column of reddish dust .
In Keng Kok , the City of Silkworms , the Prime Minister bought fried chickens and fried cicadas , and two notebooks for me .
Then we drove on , until there was no more road and we traversed dry rice fields , bouncing across their squat earth walls .
It was a spleen-crushing day .
An hour of bouncing , a brief stop in a village to inspect a new school or dispensary .
More bouncing , another stop , a new house for teachers , a new well .
Then off again , rushing to keep up .
We were miserable .
But our two Jeep mates -- Keo Viphakone from Luang Prabang and John Cool from Beaver , Pennsylvania -- were beaming under their coatings of dust .
Together they had probably done more than any other men to help push Laos toward the 20th century -- constructively .
Mr. Keo , once a diplomat in Paris and Washington , was Commissioner of Rural Affairs .
John , an engineer and anthropologist with a doctorate from the London School of Economics , headed the rural development division of USOM , the United States Operations Mission administering U.S. aid .
`` What you see are self-help projects '' , John said .
`` We ask the people what they want , and they supply the labor .
We send shovels , cement , nails , and corrugated iron for roofs .
That way they have an infirmary for $400 .
We have 2,500 such projects , and they add up to a lot more than just roads and wells and schools .
Ask Mr. Keo '' .
Mr. Keo agreed .
`` Our people have been used to accepting things as they found them '' , he said .
`` Where there was no road , they lived without one .
Now they learn that men can change their surroundings , through their traditional village elders , without violence .
That's a big step toward a modern state .
You might say we are in the nation-building business '' .
In the villages people lined up to give us flowers .
Then came coconuts , eggs , and rice wine .
The Prime Minister paid his respects to the Buddhist monks , strode rapidly among the houses , joked with the local soldiery , and made a speech .
The soldiers are fighting and the Americans are helping , he said , but in the fight against the Pathet Lao the key factor is the villager himself .
Then we were off again .
We did it for three days .
But our stumping tour of the south wasn't all misery .
Crossing the 4,000-foot width of the Mekong at Champassak , on a raft with an outboard motor , we took off our dusty shirts and enjoyed a veritable ocean breeze .
Then we hung overboard in the water .
Briefly we rolled over a paved road up to Pak Song , on the cool Bolovens Plateau .
The Prince visited the hospital of Operation Brotherhood , supported by the Junior Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines , and fed rice to two pet elephants he kept at his residence at Pak Song .
Strings keep souls in place
In the village of Soukhouma , which means `` Peaceful '' , we had a baci .
This is the most endearing of Lao ceremonies .
It takes place in the household , a rite of well-wishing for myriad occasions -- for the traveler , a wedding , a newborn child , the sick , the New Year , for any good purpose .
The preparations were elaborate : flowers , candles , incense sticks , rice wine , dozens of delicacies , and pieces of white cotton string .
The strings were draped around flowers in tall silver bowls ( page 261 ) .
The candles were lighted , and we sat on split-bamboo mats among the village notables .
I was careful to keep my feet , the seat of the least worthy spirits , from pointing at anyone's head , where the worthiest spirits reside .
Now a distinguished old man called on nine divinities to come and join us .
Next he addressed himself to our souls .
A man has 32 souls , one for each part of the body .
Those souls like to wander off , and must be called back .
With the divinities present and our souls in place , we were wished health , happiness , and power .
Then , one after another , the villagers tied the waiting cotton strings around our wrists .
These were to be kept on , to hold in the 32 souls .
As we stepped out into the sunlight , a man came up to John Cool and silently showed him his hand .
It had a festering hole as big as a silver dollar .
We could see maggots moving .
John said : `` I have some antiseptic salve with me , but it's too late for that '' .
My interviews with teen-agers confirmed this portrait of the weakening of religious and ethnic bonds .
Jewish identity was often confused with social and economic strivings .
`` Being Jewish gives you tremendous drive '' , a boy remarked .
`` It means that you have to get ahead '' .
When I pressed for a purely religious definition , I encountered the familiar blend of liberal piety , interfaith good will , and a small residue of ethnic loyalty .
`` I like the tradition '' , a girl said .
`` I like to follow the holidays when they come along .
But you don't have to worship in the traditional way .
You can communicate in your own way .
As I see it , there's no real difference between being Jewish , Catholic , or Protestant '' .
Another teen-ager remarked : `` Most Jews don't believe in God , but they believe in people -- in helping people '' .
Still another boy asserted : `` To be a good Jew is to do no wrong ; ;
it's to be a good person '' .
When asked how this was different from being a good Protestant , the boy answered , `` It's the same thing '' .
This accords with the study by Maier and Spinrad .
They discovered that , although 42 per cent of a sample of Catholic students and 15 per cent of the Protestants believed it important to live in accordance with the teachings of their religion , only 8 per cent of the Jewish students had this conviction .
The most important aims of the Jewish students were as follows : to make the world a better place to live in -- 30 per cent ; ;
to get happiness for yourself -- 28 per cent ; ;
and financial independence -- 21 per cent .
Nevertheless , most of the teen-agers I interviewed believed in maintaining their Jewish identity and even envisioned joining a synagogue or temple .
However , they were hostile to Jewish Orthodoxy , professing to believe in Judaism `` but in a moderate way '' .
One boy said querulously about Orthodox Jews : `` It's the twentieth century , and they don't have to wear beards '' .
The reason offered for clinging to the ancestral faith lacked force and authority even in the teen-agers' minds .
`` We were brought up that way '' was one statement which won general assent .
`` I want to show respect for my parents' religion '' was the way in which a boy justified his inhabiting a halfway house of Judaism .
Still another suggested that he would join a temple `` for social reasons , since I'll be living in a suburb '' .
Intermarriage , which is generally regarded as a threat to Jewish survival , was regarded not with horror or apprehension but with a kind of mild , clinical disapproval .
Most of the teen-agers I interviewed rejected it on pragmatic grounds .
`` When you marry , you want to have things in common '' , a girl said , `` and it's hard when you don't marry someone with your own background '' .
A fourteen-year-old girl from the Middle West observed wryly that , in her community , religion inconveniently interfered with religious activities -- at least with the peripheral activities that many middle class Jews now regard as religious .
It appears that an Orthodox girl in the community disrupted plans for an outing sponsored by one of the Jewish service groups because she would not travel on Saturday and , in addition , required kosher food .
Another girl from a relatively large midwestern city described herself as `` the only Orthodox girl in town '' .
This is , no doubt , inaccurate , but it does convey how isolated she feels among the vast army of the nonobservant .
The older teens
One of the significant things about Jewish culture in the older teen years is that it is largely college-oriented .
Sixty-five per cent of the Jewish teen-agers of college age attend institutions of higher learning .
This is substantially higher than the figures for the American population at large -- 45.6 per cent for males and 29.2 per cent for females .
This may help explain a phenomenon described by a small-town Jewish boy .
In their first two years in high school , Jewish boys in this town make strenuous exertions to win positions on the school teams .
However , in their junior and senior years , they generally forego their athletic pursuits , presumably in the interest of better academic achievement .
It is significant , too , that the older teen-agers I interviewed believed , unlike the younger ones , that Jewish students tend to do better academically than their gentile counterparts .
The percentage of Jewish girls who attend college is almost as high as that of boys .
The motivations for both sexes , to be sure , are different .
The vocational motive is the dominant one for boys , while Jewish girls attend college for social reasons and to become culturally developed .
One of the significant developments in American-Jewish life is that the cultural consumers are largely the women .
It is they who read -- and make -- Jewish best-sellers and then persuade their husbands to read them .
In upper teen Jewish life , the non-college group tends to have a sense of marginality .
`` People automatically assume that I'm in college '' , a nineteen-year-old machinist observed irritably .
However , among the girls , there are some morale-enhancing compensations for not going to college .
The Jewish working girl almost invariably works in an office -- in contradistinction to gentile factory workers -- and , buttressed by a respectable income , she is likely to dress better and live more expansively than the college student .
She is even prone to regard the college girl as immature .
The lower-middle class college student
One of the reasons for the high percentage of Jewish teen-agers in college is that a great many urban Jews are enabled to attend local colleges at modest cost .
This is particularly true in large centers of Jewish population like New York , Chicago , and Philadelphia .
What is noteworthy about this large group of teen-agers is that , although their attitudes hardly differentiate them from their gentile counterparts , they actually lead their lives in a vast self-enclosed Jewish cosmos with relatively little contact with the non-Jewish world .
Perhaps the Jewish students at Brooklyn College -- constituting 85 per cent of those who attend the day session -- can serve as a paradigm of the urban , lower-middle class Jewish student .
There is , to begin , an important sex difference .
Typically , in a lower-middle class Jewish family , a son will be sent to an out-of-town school , if financial resources warrant it , while the daughter will attend the local college .
There are two reasons for this .
First , the girl's education has a lower priority than the son's .
Second , the attitude in Jewish families is far more protective toward the daughter than toward the son .
Most Jewish mothers are determined to exercise vigilance over the social and sexual lives of their daughters by keeping them home .
The consequence of this is that the girls at Brooklyn College outnumber the boys and do somewhat better academically .
One can assume that some of the brightest boys are out of town .
Brooklyn College students have an ambivalent attitude toward their school .
On the one hand , there is a sense of not having moved beyond the ambiance of their high school .
This is particularly acute for those who attended Midwood High School directly across the street from Brooklyn College .
They have a sense of marginality at being denied that special badge of status , the out-of-town school .
At the same time , there is a good deal of self-congratulation at attending a good college -- they are even inclined to exaggerate its not inconsiderable virtues -- and they express pleasure at the cozy in-group feeling that the college generates .
`` It's people of your own kind '' , a girl remarked .
`` You don't have to watch what you say .
Of course , I would like to go to an out-of-town school where there are all kinds of people , but I would want lots of Jewish kids there '' .
For most Brooklyn College students , college is at once a perpetuation of their ethnic attachments and a breaking away from the cage of neighborhood and family .
Brooklyn College is unequivocally Jewish in tone , and efforts to detribalize the college by bringing in unimpeachably midwestern types on the faculty have been unavailing .
However , a growing intellectual sophistication and the new certitudes imparted by courses in psychology and anthropology make the students increasingly critical of their somewhat provincial and overprotective parents .
And the rebellion of these third generation Jews is not the traditional conflict of culture but , rather , a protest against a culture that they view as softly and insidiously enveloping .
`` As long as I'm home , I'll never grow up '' , a nineteen-year-old boy observed sadly .
`` They don't like it if I do anything away from home .
It's so much trouble , I don't usually bother '' .
For girls , the overprotection is far more pervasive .
Parents will drive on Friday night to pick up their daughters after a sorority or House Plan meeting .
A freshman girl's father not too long ago called a dean at Brooklyn College and demanded the `` low-down '' on a boy who was going out with his daughter .
The domestic tentacles even extend to the choice of a major field .
Under pressure from parents , the majority of Brooklyn College girls major in education since that co-ordinates best with marriage plans -- limited graduate study requirement and convenient working hours .
This means that a great many academically talented girls are discouraged from pursuing graduate work of a more demanding nature .
A kind of double standard exists here for Jewish boys and girls as it does in the realm of sex .
The breaking away from the prison house of Brooklyn is gradual .
First , the student trains on his hapless parents the heavy artillery of his newly acquired psychological and sociological insights .
Then , with the new affluence , there is actually a sallying forth into the wide , wide world beyond the precincts of New York .
It is significant that the Catskills , which used to be the summer playground for older teen-agers , a kind of summer suburb of New York , no longer attracts them in great numbers -- except for those who work there as waiters , bus boys , or counselors in the day camps .
The great world beyond beckons .
But it should be pointed out that some of the new watering places -- Fire Island , Nantucket , Westhampton , Long Island , for example -- tend to be homogeneously Jewish .
Although Brooklyn College does not yet have a junior-year-abroad program , a good number of students spend summers in Europe .
In general , however , the timetable of travel lags considerably behind that of the student at Harvard or Smith .
And acculturation into the world at large is likely to occur for the Brooklyn College student after college rather than during the four school years .
Brooklyn College is Marjorie Morningstar territory , as much as the Bronx or Central Park West .
There are hordes of nubile young women there who , prodded by their impatient mothers , are determined to marry .
It is interesting that , although the percentage of married students is not appreciably higher at Brooklyn than elsewhere -- about 30 per cent of the women and 25 per cent of the men in the graduating class -- the anxiety of the unmarried has puffed up the estimate .
`` Almost everybody in the senior class is married '' , students say dogmatically .
And the school newspaper sells space to jubilant fraternities , sororities , and houses ( in the House Plan Association ) that have good news to impart .
These announcements are , in effect , advertisements for themselves as thriving marriage marts .
There are boxed proclamations in the newspaper of watchings , pinnings , ringings , engagements , and marriages in a scrupulously graded hierarchy of felicity .
`` Witt House happily announces the engagement of Fran Horowitz to Erwin Schwartz of Fife House '' .
The Brooklyn College student shows some striking departures from prevailing collegiate models .
The Ivy League enjoys no easy dominion here , and the boys are as likely to dress in rather foppish Continental fashion , or even in nondescript working class manner , as they are in the restrained , button-down Ivy way .
The girls are prone to dress far more flamboyantly than their counterparts out of town , and eye shadow , mascara , and elaborate bouffant hairdos -- despite the admonitions of cautious guidance personnel -- are not unknown even in early morning classes .
Among the boys , there is very little bravado about drinking .
Brooklyn College is distinctive for not having an official drinking place .
The Fort Lauderdale encampment for drinking is foreign to most Brooklyn College boys .
This should be used frequently ( but shaken before using ) .
For galled breasts , the mother should shave into half a cup of fresh unsalted lard enough white chalk to make a paste .
This could also be used for any other skin irritation .
Or she might place cornstarch in the oven for a short time and then apply this under her breasts .
`` Female troubles '' of various kinds do not seem to have been common on the frontier ; ;
at least I have only one remedy for anything of this kind in my collection , one for hastening delayed menstruation .
The sufferer drinks tansy tea .
Bruises , burns , cuts , etc. , occurred frequently on the frontier , and folk medicine gave the answers to these problems too .
Bruises and black eyes were relieved by application of raw beefsteak .
( Doctors now say that it was not the meat but the coolness of the applications which relieved the pain .
) Salted butter was another cure for bruises .
Many people agreed that burns should be treated with bland oily salves or unsalted butter or lard , but one informant told me that a burn should be bathed in salt water ; ;
the burn oozed watery fluid for many days , and finally the healing was completed by bathing it with epsom salts .
Another swore by vinegar baths for burns , and still another recommended salted butter .
`` Butter salve '' or `` butter ointment '' was used for burns , and for bruises as well .
This was made by putting butter in a pan of water and allowing it to boil ; ;
when it was cool , the fat was skimmed off and bottled .
Cow's milk was another cure for burns , and burns covered with gum arabic or plain mucilage healed quickly .
One man , badly burned about the face and eyes by an arc welding torch , was blinded and could not find a doctor at the time .
A sympathetic friend made poultices of raw potato parings , which she said was the best and quickest way to draw out the `` heat '' .
Later the doctor used mineral oil on the burns .
The results were good , but which treatment helped is still not known .
To stop bleeding , cobwebs were applied to cuts and wounds .
One old-timer said to sprinkle sugar on a bleeding cut , even when on a knuckle , if it was made by a rusty tool ; ;
this would stop the flow and also prevent infection .
My lawyer told me that his mother used a similar remedy for cuts and wounds ; ;
she sprinkled common sugar directly on the injury and then bound it loosely with cotton cloth , over which she poured turpentine .
He showed me one of his fingers which had been practically amputated and which his mother had treated ; ;
there is scarcely a scar showing .
Tobacco was common first aid .
A `` chaw '' of tobacco put on an open wound was both antiseptic and healing .
Or a thin slice of plug tobacco might be laid on the open wound without chewing .
One old man told me that when he was a boy he was kicked in the head by a fractious mule and had his scalp laid back from the entire front of his head .
His brother ran a mile to get the father ; ;
when they reached the boy , the father sliced a new plug of tobacco , put the scalp back in place , and covered the raw edges with the slices .
Then he put a rag around the dressing to keep it in place .
There was no cleaning or further care , but the wound healed in less than two weeks and showed no scar .
Veronica from the herb garden was also used to stop bleeding , and rue was an antiseptic .
Until quite recently , `` sterile '' maggots could be bought to apply to a wound ; ;
they would feed on its surface , leaving it clean so that it could be medically treated .
Tetanus could be avoided by pouring warm turpentine over a wound .
One family bound wounds with bacon or salt pork strips , or , if these were not handy , plain lard .
Another sprinkled sugar on hot coals and held the wounded foot or hand in the smoke .
Rabies were cured or prevented by `` madstones '' which the pioneer wore or carried .
In 1872 there were known to be twenty-two in Norton County , and one had been in the family for 200 years .
Another cure for hydrophobia was to suck the wounds , then cauterize them with a hot knife or poker .
While nowadays we recognize the fact that there are many causes for bleeding at the nose , not long ago a nosebleed was simply that , and treatment had little variation .
Since a fall or blow might have caused it , a cold pack was usually first aid .
This might be applied to the top of the nose or the back of the neck , pressed on the upper lip , or inserted into the nostril ( cotton was usually used in this last ) .
Nosebleed could be stopped by wrapping a red woolen string about the patient's neck and tying it in a knot for each year of his life .
Or the victim could chew hard on a piece of paper , meanwhile pressing his fingers tight in his ears .
Old sores could be healed by the constant application of a wash made of equal parts vinegar and water .
Blood blisters could be prevented from forming by rubbing a work blister immediately with any hard nonpoisonous substance .
Felons were cured by taking common salt and drying it in the oven , pounding it fine , and mixing it with equal parts of spirits of turpentine ; ;
this mixture was then spread on a cloth and wrapped around the affected part .
As the cloth dried , more of the mixture was applied , and after twenty-four hours the felon was supposed to be `` killed '' .
Insect bites were cured in many ways .
Many an old-timer swore by the saliva method ; ;
`` get a bite , spit on it '' was a proverb .
This was used also for bruises .
Yellow clay was used as a poultice for insect bites and also for swellings ; ;
not long ago `` Denver Mud '' was most popular .
Chiggers were a common pest along streams and where gardens and berries thrived ; ;
so small as to be scarcely visible to the eye , they buried themselves in the victim's flesh .
Bathing the itching parts with kerosene gave relief and also killed the pests .
Ant bites were eased by applying liquid bluing .
For mosquito bites a paste of half a glass of salt and half a glass of soda was made .
For wasp stings onion juice , obtained by scraping an onion , gave quick relief .
A handier remedy was to bathe the painful part in strong soapy water ; ;
mud was sometimes used as well as soap .
Just plain old black dirt was also used as a pack to relieve wasp or bee stings .
