I was loaded with suds when I ran away , and I haven't had a chance to wash it off .
Mmmm , it sure itches '' .
`` You might as well wait here while I'm gone , so you can use my shower if you'd like '' .
`` Oh , I'd love to '' .
I showed her the shower and tub , and she said , smiling , `` If you really don't mind , I think I'll get clean in the shower , then soak for a few minutes in your tub .
That always relaxes me .
Doesn't it you '' ? ?
`` Only when I do it '' .
I shook my head .
One of my virtues or vices is a sort of three-dimensional imagination complete with sound effects and glorious living color .
`` Soak as long as you want , Joyce .
It'll probably be at least an hour or two before I can check back with you .
So you'll have everything all to yourself , doggone ''
I looked at my watch .
Ten after nine .
Time to go , I supposed .
`` Well , goodbye '' , I said .
`` Goodbye .
You'd better hurry '' .
`` Oh , you can count on that '' .
She smiled slightly .
Softly .
Warmly .
`` Don't hurry too much .
I'll be soaking for at least half an hour '' .
That was all she said .
But suddenly those hot-honey eyes seemed to have everything but swarms of bees in them .
However , when there's a job to be done , I'm a monstrosity of grim determination , I like to think .
I spun about and clattered through the front room to the door .
As I went out , I could hear water pouring in the shower .
Hot water .
She wouldn't be taking a cold shower .
Hell , she couldn't .
Bryn Mawr Drive is only two or three miles from the Spartan , and it took me less than five minutes to get there .
But the scene was not the quiet , calm scene I'd expected .
Four cars were parked at the curb , and two of them were police radio cars .
Lights blazed in the big house and surrounding grounds .
I followed a shrubbery-lined gravel path alongside the house to the pool .
Two uniformed officers , a couple of plain-clothesmen I knew , and two other men stood on a gray cement area next to the pool on my left .
At the pool's far end was the little cabana Joyce had mentioned , and on the water's surface floated scattered lavender patches of limp-looking lather .
A few yards beyond the group of men , a man's nude body lay face down on a patch of thick green dichondra .
Lieutenant Rawlins , one of the plain-clothesmen , spotted me and said , `` Hi , Shell '' , and walked toward me .
`` How'd you hear about this one '' ? ?
I grinned , but ignored the question .
He didn't push it ; ;
Rawlins worked out of Central Homicide and we'd been friends for years .
He filled me in .
A call to the police had been placed from here a couple of minutes after nine P.M. , and the first police car had arrived two or three minutes after that -- 10 minutes ago now .
Present at the scene -- in addition to the dead man , who was indeed Louis Thor -- had been Thor's partner Bill Blake , and Antony Rose , an advertising agency executive who handled the zing account .
Neither of them , I understood , had been present at the filming session earlier .
`` What were they doing here '' ? ?
I asked Rawlins .
`` They were supposed to meet Thor at nine PM for a conference concerning the ad campaign for their soap , a new angle based on this SX-21 stuff '' .
`` Yeah , I've heard more about SX-21 than space exploration lately .
What is the gunk '' ? ?
`` How would I know ? ?
It's a secret .
That was the new advertising angle -- something about a Lloyd's of London policy to insure the secrecy of the secret ingredient .
Actually , only two men know what the formula is , Blake and '' -- He stopped and looked at Thor's body .
I said , `` O.K. , so now only Blake knows .
How's it strike you , foul or fair '' ? ?
`` Can't say yet .
Deputy coroner says it looks like he sucked in a big pile of those thick suds and strangled on 'em .
The PM might show he drowned instead , but that's what the once-over-lightly gives us .
Accident , murder , suicide -- take your pick '' .
`` I'll pick murder .
Anything else '' ? ?
`` According to Rose , he arrived here a couple minutes before nine and spotted Thor in the water , got a hooked pole from the pool-equipment locker and started hauling him out .
Too many people think that the primary purpose of a higher education is to help you make a living ; ;
this is not so , for education offers all kinds of dividends , including how to pull the wool over a husband's eyes while you are having an affair with his wife .
If it were not for an old professor who made me read the classics I would have been stymied on what to do , and now I understand why they are classics ; ;
those who wrote them knew people and what made people tick .
I worked for my Uncle ( an Uncle by marriage so you will not think this has a mild undercurrent of incest ) who ran one of those antique shops in New Orleans' Vieux Carre , the old French Quarter .
The arrangement I had with him was to work four hours a day .
The rest of the time I devoted to painting or to those other activities a young and healthy man just out of college finds interesting .
I had a one-room studio which overlooked an ancient courtyard filled with flowers and plants , blooming everlastingly in the southern sun .
I had come to New Orleans two years earlier after graduating college , partly because I loved the city and partly because there was quite a noted art colony there .
When my Uncle offered me a part-time job which would take care of my normal expenses and give me time to paint I accepted .
The arrangement turned out to be excellent .
I loved the city and I particularly loved the gaiety and spirit of Mardi Gras .
I had seen two of them and we would soon be in another city-wide , joyous celebration with romance in the air ; ;
and , when you took a walk you never knew what adventure or pair of sparkling eyes were waiting around the next corner .
The very faces of the people bore this expectation of fun and pleasure .
It was as if they could hardly wait to get into their costumes , cover their faces with masks and go adventuring .
My Uncle and I were not too close socially because of the difference in our ages .
Sometimes I wondered vaguely what he did about women for my Aunt , by blood , had died some years ago , but neither of us said anything .
One Monday morning I saw him approach the store with a woman and introduce me to her as my new Aunt .
They were married over the week-end , though he was easily sixty and she could not have been even thirty .
She looked more like twenty-five or six .
It was really a May and December combination .
My new Aunt was perhaps three or four years older than I and it had been a long time since I had seen as gorgeous a woman who oozed sex .
There was something about the contour of her face , her smile that was like New Orleans sunshine , the way she held her head , the way she walked -- there was scarcely anything she did which did not fascinate me .
Her legs were the full , sexy kind , full bodied like a rare wine and just as tantalizing to the appetite ; ;
the calf was magnificent , the ankle perfect .
You must forgive me if I seem to dwell too much on her physical aspects but I am an artist , accustomed to studying the physical body .
The true artist is like one of those scientists who , from a single bone can reconstruct an animal's entire body .
The artist looks at an ankle , a calf , a bosom and , in his mind's eye , the clothes drop away and he sees her as she really is .
And that is the way I first saw her when my Uncle brought her into his antique store .
That she impressed me instantly was obvious ; ;
I was aware that when our eyes met we both quickly averted them .
I thought I saw a faint surge of color rise to her neck and quickly suffuse her cheeks .
True , she was my Aunt , married to an Uncle related to me only by marriage , but why she had married a man twice her age , and more , perhaps , I did not know or much care .
She was standing with her back to the glass door .
Her form was silhouetted and with the strong light I could see the outlines of her body , a body that an artist or anyone else would have admired .
As it is in so many affairs of the heart , a man and a woman meet and something clicks .
Something clicked in this instance , but I treated her circumspectly and I felt that she knew it , for we both kept our distance .
When she appeared at the store to help out for a few hours even my looking at her was surreptitious lest my Uncle notice it .
And then I became aware that she , too , glanced at me surreptitiously .
I felt that her eyes were undressing me as if she were a painter and I a nude model .
I dismissed these feelings as wishful thinking but I could not get it out of my head that we had a strong physical attraction for one another and we both feared to dwell on it because of our relationship .
When our eyes met the air was filled with an unuttered message of `` Me , too '' .
You have probably experienced this .
It is nothing you can put your fingers on but the air suddenly fills with a high charge of electricity .
Why she married him I do not know .
I myself was fond of him but what a young woman half his age saw in him was a mystery to me .
He already had that slow pace that comes over the elderly , while she herself had all the signs of one who appreciates the joys of living .
Perhaps , with my Uncle , she found a measure of economic security that she needed ; ;
or maybe she liked men old enough to be her father ; ;
some women with father fixations do .
For several weeks we eyed one another almost like sparring partners , and then one day Uncle was slightly indisposed and stayed home ; ;
his bride opened the store .
I was waiting in front of it when she showed up and told me of my Uncle's indisposition .
Even as she was telling me about it I became aware of a give-away flush that suffused her neck and moved upwards to her cheeks , and subconsciously I realized that when she entered the store she did not switch on the lights .
The cavernous depth , cluttered with antiques , echoed to her hard heels as she walked directly to the office in the rear and took the seat at his desk .
She placed her palms , fingers outspread , on the desk in an odd gesture as if to say , `` Now , what next '' ? ?
I was aware of a humid look in her eyes that told me the time was opportune .
There was little likelihood of any customers walking in at that hour .
I was standing beside her , watching the outspread palms and wondering about the old horsehair sofa against the wall on which he sometimes napped .
I bent and kissed the still pink neck and suddenly she jumped up , and her two arms encircled me in a bear-like crush .
Her mouth , which had been so much in my thoughts , was warm and moist and tender .
I heard her murmur , `` We'd better lock the door '' .
It did not take me long to slip the bolt securely and return to the rear and its couch .
When we opened the door again for business and switched on the lights she said :
`` He will not always be indisposed '' .
`` I know .
I was thinking about that .
How will we work it out '' ? ?
`` I don't know '' , she said .
`` You're the man .
You figure it out .
I've noticed the way you've been looking at me ever since we met '' .
`` I guess we both felt it '' .
I said .
`` I guess so '' , she said .
`` But now what '' ? ?
Even as I said it I realized that an education can be invaluable .
`` I know what we can do '' , I said .
`` Tell him I made a pass at you '' .
She raised a protesting hand with a startled air .
`` What are you trying to do ? ?
Get thrown out ? ?
If I even hint at it do you think it will matter that you are his nephew -- and not even a blood nephew '' ? ?
`` I don't want to be thrown out and I don't think I will .
I think I have a way so we can carry on without his suspecting us '' .
`` By telling him you are making passes at me '' ? ?
She said incredulously .
`` When I was in college '' , I grinned , `` I remember a poem I had to read in my lit class .
I don't even remember who wrote it but it was one of those 15th or 16th century poets .
In those days poems often told a story in verse and those boys had some corkers to tell ; ;
and now I think we can use the knowledge they passed on to us .
Tomorrow Mardi Gras opens officially .
A lot of people will roam the streets in costumes and masks , and having a ball .
There will be romance and flirtation .
If you tell him I made a pass at you he might think you misunderstood something I said or did , so instead of just telling him I made a pass , say I tried to date you and that you agreed so you could prove to him what a louse I really am .
We made a rendezvous tomorrow evening at nine on some street near Lake Ponchartrain .
And to prove what you tell him about me you suggest that he keep the date instead .
You are both the same size .
He could use your clothes for a costume and a heavy veil for a mask .
When I show up he will know you are a good wife to have told him about it '' .
`` But you '' -- she began .
`` Don't worry about me .
It will turn out all right '' .
`` I don't understand '' , she insisted .
`` Are you trying to cut your throat '' ? ?
`` No '' , I chuckled , `` I'm just beginning to collect dividends on my investment in education '' .
As we expected , on the following day my Uncle was completely recovered and opened the store as usual at 10 in the morning .
I felt that he looked at me coldly and appraisingly and seemed to be uncertain what his attitude towards me should be , but he did not say one word which might indicate that he had been told of advances to his wife .
I quit work at my usual hour as if this day was no different from other days .
I heard subsequently that my Uncle and Aunt had dinner in a nearby restaurant in the French Quarter after which he went home to get into his costume to keep the date .
Shortly before nine I drove my jalopy to the street facing the Lake and parked the car in shadows far enough away from the rendezvous corner but near enough to keep the corner in clear view .
A few minutes later I saw my Uncle's car drive up and a woman's figure emerge and walk to the corner .
I must say the figure was well made up .
If it were not that I knew who it was I could have mistaken it for my Aunt so well did her clothes fit him .
In one hand he gripped firmly a parasol though there had been no indication of rain .
I suspected why he brought it along .
In the half darkness I approached cautiously , making sure he did not see me .
He was looking out on the dark waters of the Lake when I came upon him and without wasting words I smacked him hard across the face .
`` You cheap bitch '' ! !
I exclaimed .
`` You cheap , no good , two-timing bitch ! !
You get a good , loyal husband -- smack ! !
-- and you fall for a pass by his own nephew ! !
You should -- smack ! !
-- be ashamed of yourself .
He had better write a postcard to Walter .
He opened the myth book again and there ( along the margin next to Robert Graves' imaginative interpretation of the creation of the Dactyls from Rhea's fingertips ) were the names of four Munich bars and Meredith Wilder's address .
The bars were marked as Walter had marked them in a small black book kept in a nearly secret drawer .
The code , which had probably something to do with sex or some other interest , Nicolas was determined to find out and put to use .
A card to Walter would get him an introduction to this Meredith , and that might be good for something .
Nicolas called on his muse , a line came back :
`` Squaresville , man , and all the palazzos are crummy Palasts '' .
That ought to draw a laugh , Nicolas reasoned , as he stored the line away on the wax tape that was his mind .
And indeed , his postcard did draw from Walter a letter recommending his friend , the poet Nicolas Manas , to his friend Meredith Wilder .
Five days later , on receiving it , Meredith sat drumming his dactyls on his writing table .
Dammit ! !
He inwardly cried .
His hand was large and square and heavily tanned .
The voice crying in him was the voice of guilt .
His four weeks in Italy had turned into nearer three months .
He had returned to the pension a week ago .
Now , he was just in the late poems of Holderlin and therefore had most of the nineteenth century before him -- plus next semester's class preparation .
He was determined to spend an industrious summer .
Well , maybe Manas wouldn't call .
Meredith's fingers slowed and stopped over a line before him : Sie lacheln , die Schwarzen Hexen .
The menace of Manas gradually faded as Meredith asked himself should he translate it , ' How the dark fates laughed ' ? ?
Or , more rhythmically , ' The swarthy witches are laughing ' ? ?
And he missed the point that the swarthy witches might be laughing at him for hoping to escape Nicolas Manas .
But Nicolas , too , was being interrupted , that morning .
Not by the 11:00 sun which had spread a warmth around his spot of grass in the English Gardens and sent him off to sleep ; ;
but by a blond girl in a sweater and skirt who stood a few yards off and tenderly regarded him .
Should she wake him ? ?
She didn't have the heart .
Her heart , her maternal feeling , in fact her being was too busy expressing itself , as quietly thrilled by this sight of her Nicolas curled asleep under a blanket , in a park like a scene from Poussin .
She was just not able to break the spell .
( Would she have been able to had she known that the blanket belonged to a young ballet dancer Nicolas had found his first night in one of Walter's marked bars ? ?
Nicolas : `` Look , Nicolas doesn't go to bed with boys -- no sex , see ? ?
So if all these beers was to get me in bed , man , you just spent a lot of money '' .
Ballet dancer : Protests , tears , and `` take what you want , Nicolas , I am a dancer , you are a poet , it is all beautiful '' .
To this meek conjugation Nicolas had replied , `` O.K. I can use this blanket .
And when you get off this job tonight , well , you can gimme something to eat '' .
And , as a matter of fact , Nicolas had slept in the park only part of one night , when he discovered that Munich's early mornings even in summer are laden with dew .
He had always known how to find a bed , and on his own terms .
He used the blanket for late morning naps when hosts of the night had gone off to jobs and proved reluctant to leave him in their small rooms with their few possessions .
Mary Jane Lerner knew none of this .
) Her Nicolas lay curled in the sun like a fawn , black hair falling over his eyes .
She was telling herself that this might just be her reward at the end of a long meaningful search for truth .
This was surely a reunion in art , it was all that poetry promised .
That long night with Nicolas and marijuana in Venice had opened her eyes .
His advice , his voice saying his poems , the fact that he had not so much as touched her -- on the contrary , he had put his head back and she had stroked his hair -- this was all new .
Her eyes had opened , she had caught a glimpse of a new faith .
The next day he was gone .
Mary Jane might not be the most intelligent woman , but she was one of the most determined .
Even so , it took her several days to force Walter to tell her Nicolas's whereabouts .
Packing a small suitcase , informing her husband whom she found in Harry's Bar that she was taking a train to Germany to get away for a while , patting his arm , refusing a drink , getting on the train -- all this had only taken her two hours .
She had arrived this morning and come straight to the English Gardens .
`` Dear girl '' , Walter had finally said , `` he writes me that he is sleeping in the English Gardens '' .
`` How like him '' ! !
Mary Jane had smilingly said .
`` His address '' , Walter added , `` is that great foundling home , the American Express .
And I will greatly appreciate it if you will not tell your husband .
'' For the last half hour Mary Jane had criss-crossed half the length of the Gardens and , at last , come upon her knight .
His presence there , asleep in the grass , confirmed all that Mary Jane believed it was in his power to teach her : freedom from the tedium of needs such as hotels , the meaning of nature , how to live , simply , with the angels .
She set down her suitcase .
Should she wake him ? ?
No .
Smiling , she sat down on the suitcase and waited and watched .
The sun grew hotter as it approached the midday .
Nicolas was dreaming he had his head pressed against the dashboard of a speeding car .
He began sweating .
In his dream he cried , `` Slow down , for Chrissake '' ! !
He half woke and rolled over with his face in the cooler grass .
His nose was tickled .
He sneezed .
He blew his nose expertly between his fingers .
He spit .
He half sat up and scratched at the hair on his forehead and then , more vigorously , between his legs .
He belched , he stretched .
Mary Jane got up , quietly , and walked away .
Twenty minutes later she was at the desk of the Grafin's pension , her tears dried , signing a hotel form and asking for a bath .
Mary Jane belonged to a world acquainted with small attractive hotels and pensions in all the major and minor cities .
She had retreated to this world .
The Grafin , who was charmed by her , told her , `` Your sister who was here two years ago has quite dark hair .
Families are very interesting .
Nevertheless , there is no bath .
But a young American has a bath next to his room and I shall ask him if you might use it this once .
And then we shall see .
'' ( The Grafin was partial to the word shall .
)
Meredith was irritated when the Grafin knocked at his door and told him , `` She is a great beauty ! !
Shall we allow her not to have a bath ? ?
Actually , she is a sad beauty , I believe .
You shall see her at dinner '' .
Rather erotically he listened to the bath water running ; ;
when it stopped he began busily typing , sitting up in a virtuous way .
Before dinner , he shaved for the second time that day .
A thing he did not like doing , generally .
Singing into the mirror and his interested eyes , he was pleased to note , when he stripped for his own bath , that he still had the best part of his Italian sun tan .
He flexed his muscles for several minutes , got into the tub , and then grew self-conscious of splashing as he washed .
In the small gallery used as the guests' dining room , Meredith sat down at his place and , as always , began teasing the young waitress .
He was asking had it been she who left the love note in his sheets ( she also served as maid ) when he saw the Grafin followed by a stately blond girl approaching his table .
It would be literary license calculated to glamorize life to say that he , oh , dropped his napkin , so startled was he by Mary Jane's beauty .
Yet he did drop his badinage with the ordinary country girl as much in deference to the Grafin as acknowledgement that here , indeed , was something special .
Mary Jane had made very little effort .
Above a dark green skirt she wore a pale green cashmere sweater with , as he soon perceived , no brassiere beneath .
Her white blond hair was clean and brushed long straight down to her shoulders .
Perhaps her eyes were larger and more of a summer blue for all they had seen and wept that day .
She had touched her face , truly a noble and pure face , only with a lip salve which made her lips glisten but no redder than usual .
The result was grace and modesty .
As she was rather tired this evening , her simple `` Thank you for the use of your bath '' -- when she sat down opposite him -- spoken in a low voice , came across with coolnesses of intelligence and control .
Meredith began falling in love .
Soup : `` Only this morning '' ; ;
veal cutlets : `` Oh , I couldn't possibly eat all this '' ! !
; ;
Wine : `` Then you were typing poems this afternoon '' ? ?
; ;
Fruit compote : `` If you think I would understand it '' ; ;
a smile .
`` What a beautiful room .
Like as if it were built of books '' .
Having opened the windows onto the terrace , lit the fire , translated the motto , Meredith grinned and took down a little triplet of books bound together in old calfskin .
Opening these he brought out a schnapps bottle and small gold thimble-sized glasses hidden inside it .
`` I think the maids tipple in the afternoon '' .
`` Those sweet girls ? ?
Oh you're joking .
It tastes a little like poppyseed .
What's its name ? ?
Steinhager '' She whispered Steinhager to herself , several times , memorizing it .
`` Would you first read the poem aloud to me and then let me read it to myself '' ? ?
Meredith's voice was always deep , with rough bass notes in it ; ;
in reading , on platforms , even in the large auditorium of the Y.M.H.A. , Poetry Center nights , his voice was intimate , thoughtful , and a trifle shy .
His new poem , a love poem , told of a young husband leading his wife upstairs to the bedroom when the lights in the house have failed .
The husband points the steps out with his flashlight : `` Its white stare filling her pale eyes To the blind brim with appetite , Bleaching her hands that grazed my thighs And sent us from the table in surprise To let the dishes soak all night , '' ( Mary Jane asked herself if Meredith was blushing at this line , or was it the fire ? ?
) But he read on .
In the bedroom before the husband and wife find their way to the bed , the lights go on : `` In dull domestic radiance I watch her staring face , still blind , Start wincing in obedience To dirty waters , counters , pots and pans , Waiting below stairs , in her mind '' .
Mary Jane took the page from him and began reading it , moving her lips with the words .
`` Oh , it's that myth , about Orpheus and What is her name ? ?
I can never pronounce it '' .
She repeated `` Eurydice '' .
The third time rather urgently .
But with her hand poem again .
She raised her face and nodded , `` It's sweet , and very sad '' .
They discussed the way people never tell each other the things on their minds .
They finished the small bottle of Steinhager .
She confessed she was unhappy , he asked was it her husband ? ?
She began to explain , `` There was this poet , in Italy '' He interrupted , `` Please don't judge all poets '' .
They smiled .
At her door , two or three hours later , Mary Jane whispered , `` Everyone is asleep '' .
Kissing her he whispered , several times , `` Eurydice '' .
The third time rather urgently .
But with her hand softly on his cheek for a last moment , she closed the door and he went back down the hall and into his bed excited , expectant , and finally faintly grinning with the feel of her hand against his mouth .
They were west of the Sabine , but only God knew where .
For three days , their stolid oxen had plodded up a blazing valley as flat and featureless as a dead sea .
Molten glare singed their eyelids an angry crimson ; ;
suffocating air sapped their strength and strained their nerves to snapping ; ;
dust choked their throats and lay like acid in their lungs .
And the valley stretched endlessly out ahead , scorched and baked and writhing in its heat , until it vanished into the throbbing wall of fiery orange brown haze .
Ben Prime extended his high-stepped stride until he could lay his goad across the noses of the oxen .
`` Hoa-whup '' ! !
He commanded from his raw throat , and felt the pain of movement in his cracked , black burned lips .
He removed his hat to let the trapped sweat cut rivulets through the dust film upon his gaunt face .
He spat .
The dust-thick saliva came from his mouth like balled cotton .
He moved back to the wheel and stood there blowing , grasping the top of a spoke to still the trembling of his played-out limbs .
The burning air dried his sweat-soaked clothes in salt-edged patches .
He cleared his throat and wet his lips .
As cheerfully as possible , he said , `` Well , I guess we could all do with a little drink '' .
He unlashed the dipper and drew water from a barrel .
They could no longer afford the luxury of the canvas sweat bag that cooled it by evaporation .
The water was warm and stale and had a brackish taste .
But it was water .
Thank the Lord , they still had water ! !
He cleansed his mouth with a small quantity .
He took a long but carefully controlled draught .
He replenished the dipper and handed it to his young wife riding the hurricane deck .
She took it grudgingly , her dark eyes baleful as they met his .
She drank and pushed back her gingham bonnet to wet a kerchief and wipe her face .
She set the dipper on the edge of the deck , leaving it for him to stretch after it while she looked on scornfully .
`` What happens when there's no more water '' ? ?
She asked smolderingly .
She was like charcoal , he thought -- dark , opaque , explosive .
Her thick hair was the color and texture of charcoal .
Her temper sparked like charcoal when it first lights up .
And all the time , she had the heat of hatred in her , like charcoal that is burning on its under side , but not visibly .
A ripple ran through the muscles of his jaws , but he kept control upon his voice .
`` There must be some water under there '' .
He tilted his homely face toward the dry bed of the river .
`` We can get it if we dig '' , he said patiently .
`` And add fever to our troubles '' ? ?
She scoffed .
`` Or do you want to see if I can stand fever , too '' ? ?
`` We can boil it '' , he said .
Her chin sharpened .
`` We're lost and burning up already '' , she bit out tensely .
`` The tires are rattling on the wheels now .
They'll roll off in another day .
There was no valley like this on your map .
You don't even know where we're headed '' .
`` Hettie '' , he said as gently as he could , `` we're still headed west .
Somewhere , we'll hit a trail '' .
`` Somewhere ! !
'' She repeated .
`` Maybe in time to make a cross and dig our graves '' .
His wide mouth compressed .
In a way , he couldn't blame her .
He had picked out this pathless trail , instead of the common one , in a moment of romantic fancy , to give them privacy on their honeymoon .
It had been a mistake , but anything would have been a mistake , as it turned out .
It wasn't the roughness and crudity and discomfort of the trip that had frightened her .
She had hated the whole idea before they started .
Actually , she had hated him before she ever saw him .
It had been five days too late before he learned that she'd gone through the wedding ceremony in a semitrance of laudanum , administered by her mother .
The bitterness of their wedding night still ripped within him like an open wound .
She had jumped away from his shy touch like a cat confronted by a sidewinder .
He had left her inviolate , thinking familiarity would gentle her in time .
But each mile westward , she had hated him the deeper .
He stared at the dipper , turning it over and over in his wide , calloused hands .
`` I suppose '' , he muttered , `` I can sell the outfit for enough to send you home to your folks , once we find a settlement '' .
`` Don't try to be noble '' ! !
Her laugh was hard .
`` They wouldn't have sold me in the first place if there'd been food enough to go around '' .
He winced .
`` Hettie , they didn't sell you '' , he said miserably .
`` They knew I was a good sharecrop farmer back in Carolina , but out West was a chance to build a real farm of our own .
They thought it would be a chance for you to make a life out where nobody will be thought any better than the next except for just what's inside of them .
Without money or property , what would you have had at Baton Rouge '' ? ?
`` I might have starved , but at least I wouldn't be fried to a crisp and soaked with dirt '' ! !
He darkened under his heavy burn .
His blue eyes sought the shimmering sea of haze ahead .
To his puzzlement , there suddenly was no haze .
The valley lay clear , and open to the eye , right up to the sharp-limbed line of gaunt , scoured hills that formed the horizon twenty miles ahead .
Then he noticed the clouds racing upon them -- heavy , ominous , leaden clouds that formed even as they sliced over the crests of the surrounding hills .
He had never seen clouds like them before , but he had the primitive feel of danger that gripped a man before a hurricane in Carolina .
He hollered hoarsely , `` Hang on '' ! !
And goaded the oxen as he yelled .
He wanted to turn them , putting the wagon against the storm .
Too late , he realized that in turning , he had wheeled them onto a patch of sandy ground , instead of atop a grade or ridge .
He swung up over the wheel .
`` You had better get inside '' , he warned her .
But she sat on in stubborn silence .
The clouds bulged downward and burst suddenly into a great black funnel .
Frozen , they stared at it whirling down the valley , gouging and spitting out boulders and chunks of earth like a starving hound dog cracking marrowbones .
The six-ton Conestoga began to whip and shake .
Their world turned black .
It was filled with dust and wind and sound and violence .
The heavens opened , pelting them with hail the size of walnuts .
And then came the water -- not rain , but solid sheets that sluiced down like water slopping from a bucket .
Walls of water rushed down the slopes and filled the hollows like the crests of flash floods .
Through the splash of the rising waters , they could hear the roar of the river as it raged through its canyon , gnashing big chunks out of the banks .
The jetting , frothing surface of the river reached the level of the runoff .
The dangerous current upon the prairie ceased , but the water stood and kept on rising .
They cringed under sodden covers , listening to the waves slop against the bottom .
The cloudburst cut off abruptly .
They were engulfed by the weird silence , broken only by the low , angry murmur of the river .
Then the darkness thinned , and there was light again , and then bright sunlight .
Beaten with fear and sound and wet and chill , they crawled to the hurricane deck and looked out haggardly at a world of water that reached clear to the surrounding hills .
The water level was higher than their hubs .
Only the heavy bones of the oxen kept them anchored .
There was no real sign of the river now , just a roiling , oily ribbon of liquid movement through muddy waters that reached everywhere .
Clumps of brush rode down the ribbon .
Now and then , the glistening side of a half-swamped object showed as it swept past .
The girl crawled out into the renewing warmth of the sunshine , hugging her shoulders and still trembling .
Her face was pale but set and her dark eyes smoldered with blame for Ben .
Out of compulsion to say something cheery , Ben Prime blurted , `` Well , we were lucky to be on soft ground when the first floodheads hit .
At least , the wheels dug in .
The soaking will put life back in the wagon , too '' .
His wife didn't give a sign she'd heard .
She was watching a tree ride wildly down that roiling current .
Somebody was riding the tree .
It raced closer and they could see a woman with white hair , sitting astride an upright branch .
She did not call out .
But as the tree passed , she lifted an arm in gesture of better luck and farewell .
They watched the tree until it twisted sharply on a bend .
It speared up into the air , then sinking back , the up-jutting branch turned slowly .
The pale blob of the woman disappeared .
`` There's the one who's lucky '' ! !
The girl murmured harshly .
Ben's eyes strained with the bitter hurt , his homely face slashed with gray and crimson .
Then he took off his wet boots and dropped down into the water to talk with the beasts , needing their comfort more than they needed his .
It was nearly sundown and he went to the back of the wagon , half-swimming his way , for he was not a tall man .
He let down the tailgate and was knocked over by the sluice of water .
He sputtered back to his feet and scrambled madly to pull his bags of seed grain forward .
They were already swollen to bursting .
Of all their worldly belongings , next to the oxen and his gun , the seed grain had been the most treasured .
It was spoiled now for seed , and it would sour and mold in three days if they failed to find a place and fuel to dry it .
The oxen might as well enjoy it .
He examined the water marks on the iron tires when the animals were finished .
The waters lay muddy but placid , without a ripple of movement against the wheels ; ;
there was not a match-width of damp mark to show they were receding .
He doubted if a man could wade as far as the desolate , dry hills that rimmed the valley .
A terrible , numbing sense of futility swept over him .
He gripped the wheel hard to fight the despondency of defeat .
Then he noticed that the dry wood of the wheels had swollen .
The spokes were tight again , the iron tires gripped onto the wheels as if of one piece .
Hope surged within him .
He swung toward the front to give the news to Hettie , then stopped , barred from her by the vehemence of her blame and hate .
Still , he felt better .
A tight wagon meant so much .
He got a small fire started and put on bacon and coffee .
He poured the water off the sourdough and off the flour , salvaging the chunky , watery messes for biscuits of a sort .
Their jams and jellies had not suffered .
He found a jar of preserved tomatoes and one of eggs that they had meant to save .
Now he broke them open , hoping a good meal might lessen this depression crushing Hettie .
His long nose wiggled at the smells of frizzling bacon and heating java , but the fire was low , and he wanted to waste no time .
He furled the slashed sides of the canvas tarpaulins , leaving the ribs and wagon open .
He looked thoughtfully at his wife's trunk , holding her meager treasures .
He said hesitantly , `` Hettie , I don't figure your things got wet too much .
That's a good trunk .
If you want to get them aired ''
She said without turning her head , `` After that rain beating in atop the dust , there isn't a thing that won't be streaked '' .
He drew a long breath and opened the trunk and hung out her clothes and spoilables upon the wagon ribs .
Sulphur , oil , and copra make the kind of tinder any firebug dreams of .
I suppose a Lascar sailor had sneaked a cigarette in the hold and touched off the blaze .
Now , roaring up in great oily clouds of smoke and flames , the fierce heat quickly drove us to the stern where we huddled like suffocating sheep , not knowing what to do .
The lifeboats were stuck fast .
We couldn't budge them .
I heard a cry from a stoker as a pillar of flame leaped from a hatch and tongued the man's bare back .
He sprinted to the rail and leaped overboard into the shark-infested waters .
One especially bad detonation shook Lifeboat No. 3 which trembled violently in the davits .
Brassnose yelled : `` Come on , Sommers , Max step on it , we got a chance now .
Heave on those ropes ; ;
the boat's come unstuck '' .
We pulled and swore and yanked and wept , scraping our hands until they bled profusely .
The Bonaventure was quivering and lurching like an old spavined mare .
Her stern was down and a sharp list helped us to cut loose the lifeboat which dropped heavily into the water .
Brassnose , Max and I leaped into the sea and swam to the boat .
`` Let's get away fast '' , said Brassnose , shaking water from his mop of bleached hair .
`` That tub is going to explode all at once '' .
Then the Bonaventure seemed to disintegrate with a roar of live steam , geysers of sparks and flames , and a dense cloud of black-and-orange smoke .
Dimly , we heard the voices of men in mortal agony but we couldn't go back into that inferno .
Already our leaky lifeboat was filled with five inches of water .
`` Sommers , you bale while we row '' , Brassnose commanded .
As best as I could determine , we were some 700 miles west of New Guinea , in the Bismark Archipelago .
Three days previously , we had steamed past barren Rennell Island in the distance .
Now we peered anxiously for any speck of land in the Pacific , for this interminable bailing would have to stop soon .
There were gigantic blisters and rope burns on our hands ; ;
our muscles were hot wires of pain .
Brassnose was strangely silent .
The big man with the whitened hair murmured something : his words sounded as if they were in the Manu tongue , which I recognized , having studied the dialect in my Anthropology 6 , class at the University of Chicago .
He then said something which struck a chord in my memory .
`` God help us if we're near the island of Eromonga .
We'd be in real trouble then .
I'd rather keep bailing -- or sink '' .
I was puzzled by the remark , then I recalled the voice of mild Professor Howard Griggs three years ago in a university lecture on primitive societies .
He had been speaking of this archipelago :
`` Even when the islands were under German mandate before World War 1 , , Europeans gave Eromonga a wide berth .
The place is inhabited by several hundred warlike women who are anachronisms of the Twentieth Century -- stone age amazons who live in an all-female , matriarchal society which is self-sufficient '' .
I remembered , too , the jesting voice of a classmate , Bobby Pauson : `` But how do they reproduce , Dr. Griggs ? ?
I'm sure that males have something to do with that process '' ! !
There had been classroom guffaws which quickly subsided as Professor Griggs said dryly : `` I see your point , Pauson .
Of course , males play a role there , but believe me when I say you wouldn't enjoy yourself one bit on Eromonga .
Indeed , you wouldn't live long , for the females either drive the men they've seized from neighboring islands back to their boats after exploiting them for amatory purposes , or they destroy them by revolting but ingenious methods .
In fact , one important aspect of their very religion is the annihilation of men '' .
`` I think I know what you mean , Brassnose '' , I said .
`` I know something about Eromonga .
Let's hope we come to a safer place '' .
But we didn't .
Three hours later , while we were bailing desperately , a dot of land came into view .
Foster Lukuklu Frayne made a sign over his heart with his two linked thumbs : I recognized it as an ancient Manu gesture intended to propitiate the Devil .
A half-hour passed ; ;
we had drifted closer .
In a voice so frightened as to seem not his own , the big bo'sun's mate quavered :
`` Tchalo ! !
It is Eromonga -- look hard , you can see with your naked eye the wooden scaffolding on the cliff '' .
I squinted at the looming shoreline .
There was a wooden tower or derrick there , something like a ski jump ; ;
it was perhaps 80 feet high and had been artfully constructed of logs .
A fine example of engineering in a primitive society .
`` What is the scaffolding for , Brassnose '' ? ?
He made a sound of despair deep in his throat .
It was embarrassing to see strapping , blonde Brassnose comport himself like a child who talks about bogeymen .
`` Aaa-ee ! !
It is their tultul , the ' jumping platform ' of death .
It is the last of the three tests of manhood which the women impose , to discover if a male is worthy of survival there .
Often , I heard my uncles and cousins speak of it when I was a small boy growing up in Rabaul .
They had never seen a tultul but they had heard about it from their fathers '' .
Our lifeboat was filling rapidly and despite what I had heard of the inhabitants of Eromonga , I was glad to see a long and graceful outrigger manned by three bronzed girls glide out of a lagoon into the open sea and toward our craft .
I expected Brassnose -- as a man with a strain of Melanesian in his blood -- to speak to them .
But he had turned a sickly green and appeared tongue-tied or panicked .
So , I mustered my few words of the Manu dialect and said , `` We greet you in peace .
In ngandlu .
My friends and I come from a ship which was destroyed by fire .
We are thirsty and hungry ; ;
our sore and burned hands and arms need attention '' .
The girl in the prow of the outrigger turned a smile like a beacon on me .
I noted that her full breasts were bare and that she wore a garland of red pandanus fruit in her blue-black hair .
She said , `` My name is Songau and these girls are Ponkob and Piwen .
You are welcome to Eromonga .
My people await you on the shore .
You shall have food , water and rest '' .
Thirty minutes later , the outrigger grated on sand and other girls , waiting on shore , rushed forward to pull it up on the beach and make it fast with vine ropes to a large boulder .
I saw a dozen or so other outriggers moored there .
I looked .
All my rosy visions of rest and even pleasure on this island vanished at the sight .
There was a mound of bleached human bones and skulls at the base of the big wooden derrick .
Some had been there for years ; ;
others still had whitened shreds of decayed flesh sticking to them .
There was one object which sickened yet fascinated me .
This was also a corpse -- a male , judging from the coral arm bands , the tribal scars still discernible on the maggoty face , the painted bone of the warrior caste which still pierced the septum of the rotting nose .
The body may have been two or three weeks' dead .
I looked with revulsion at the legs .
They were shattered .
Many small bones protruded crazily from the shreds of flesh .
The man must have leaped to his death from the topmost rung of the tultul .
As if divining my thoughts , the girl Songau smiled warmly and said in the casual tone an American woman might use in describing her rose garden :
`` This is our tultul , a jumping platform , aku .
Later , you shall know it better .
Is it not well-made ? ?
Our old one blew down in a storm at the time of the pokeneu festival fifteen moons ago .
It took thirty of our women almost six moons to build this one , which is higher and stronger than the old one .
We are very proud of it '' .
`` You have every right to be '' , I replied gravely in the Manu dialect , but my attention was fixed on Brassnose , the biggest and strongest of us .
He looked as if he was going to keel over .
I felt a queasiness in my own stomach but it wouldn't do to show these girls that we were afraid .
Not so soon , anyway .
I clapped the big man with the bleached hair on his shoulder and said heartily , hoping it would make an impression on the women : `` This one is the maku Frayne .
He speaks your language too , for he is the grandson of a chieftain on Taui who made much magic and was strong and cunning .
The maku Frayne has inherited this strength from his grandfather '' .
This was the worst thing I could have said .
Brassnose turned a stricken face toward me and said brokenly , `` Sommers , you meddling Yank , you're a fool ! !
They despise males who brag of their strength ; ;
they destroy such men with their damned tests .
You've ruined me , blast you '' ! !
At first , I thought he was out of his head , talking wildly like this .
But a glance at Songau and the other women confirmed what Brassnose had blurted out .
The women's faces had hardened after my statement .
At a nod from Songau , four lithe and muscular girls darted to Frayne's side and seized him by the arms .
The man was an ox and he put up a creditable struggle ; ;
but four Eromonga women are more than a match for the strongest male that ever lived .
Besides , terror had sapped some of Frayne's vitality and will .
My last impression as they led him off to a stockade was of his pale face
.
In the Manu tongue , `` eromonga '' means manhood -- a quality which the women derisively toasted in weekly feasts at which great quantities of a brew like kava were imbibed .
In the hut to which I was assigned -- Max had his own quarters -- my food was brought to me by a wrinkled crone with bare drooping breasts who seemed to enjoy conversing with me in rudimentary phrases .
Her name was L'Turu and she told me many things .
For an anthropologist , loquacious old L'Turu was a mine of information .
Though I had a great dread of the island and felt I would never leave it alive , I eagerly wrote down everything she told me about its women .
( Her account was later confirmed by the Scobee-Frazier Expedition from the University of Manitoba in 1951 .
)
From L'Turu , I heard that until about 1850 the people of this island -- which was about the size of Guam or smaller -- had been of both sexes , and that the normal family life of Melanesian tribes was observed here with minor variations .
But in the middle of the last century an island woman named `` Karipo '' seized a spear in the heat of an inter-tribal battle and rallied the women after their men had fled .
Miraculously , Karipo and her women had succeeded in driving a hundred invaders from the isle of Pamasu back to their war canoes , after considerable loss of life on both sides .
Karipo was something of a politician as well as a militarist .
She quickly exploited the exalted position she now occupied , by harassing the disorganized males and even putting many of them to death .
Within a decade or less , few men were left and a feminist society had sprung up .
`` Karipo was great goddess , told our mothers that men were not necessary except to father children '' , the crone told me .
`` All men went away from here .
Those who stayed had to pass tests .
Few passed '' .
She cackled with mirth , showing the stumps of betel-stained teeth .
`` Karipo's women then named this place ' Eromonga ' -- manhood -- for just the strongest men could stay here .
Come , I show you '' .
The old woman arose stiffly and led me to a clearing where a small hut stood .
In the shade of a palm tree in front of the squalid dwelling I saw four figures in a semi-circle on the ground .
`` I guess he spent the morning getting himself all organized , then headed for home .
Maybe to beat up on his squaw '' .
Benson looked up and saw Ramey's long head tilt forward to rub his chin on the stiff edge of the overall bib .
Ramey reached out with the tire iron and dislodged a chunk of mud that was caked on the spare tire rack .
`` I'd like to know just which it is that those guys don't understand , the liquor or automobiles '' .
Somehow the thought of a simple man bewildered by things no one had ever really helped him understand moved the driver .
For a moment his hatred toward drunken or careless drivers softened .
Maybe the Indian wasn't too much at fault , Ramey thought .
Maybe he was only doing the best he knew how , like any of us .
Anyway , he doesn't deserve to lie there in the sun and be stared at .
`` Ever see yourself spread out on the pavement , Benny '' ? ?
He said to his partner .
`` You mean dream '' ? ?
`` Not exactly .
Just see it '' .
Benson grinned and flipped a rock with his thumb like a marble .
`` Nope , just you , all the time -- sometimes I think it's the only way I'll ever get a decent partner '' .
Ramey smiled but he thought to himself , I always see me too .
Never Benny .
Whenever he saw someone lying in the dirt , Ramey wondered what the person had been thinking and he would try out thoughts in his own mind .
Then he would realize they were really things that only he himself could think .
With this realization , sometimes , he saw himself as he looked down .
`` You seen him yet '' ? ?
Benson said , referring to the Indian .
`` He wasn't in the car '' , Ramey said .
`` You didn't go clear around '' , Benson said .
`` If you want to see something , he's back on the other side by the trunk of the car '' .
`` Too long a waiting line '' , Ramey answered , pretending to joke .
A few minutes later the insurance man , a road checker , drove up in the gray coupe with license plates on it from a far-away state .
It was a trick they used to try and conceal their identity when they followed trucks to check their speed .
Sometimes they just parked at the side of the road and used radar on the trucks as they passed .
All the drivers knew about the plates and they also knew about the big floppy straw hat with shredded edges , the kind natives in travel ads wear when they are out joyfully chopping cane .
Horsely , an agent on the east end , wore the hat , trying to look like a tourist .
It had always seemed strange to Ramey that to disguise himself as a tourist , an ex-truck driver like Horsely would merely pick something outlandish and put it on his head .
The insurance man informed them that he had talked to Crumley who was all right and that he would watch the men's personal effects until they towed the rig back to town .
He chatted with Ramey and Benson for a minute or so in the meager shade of the trailer .
Every so often the diminishing sound of a car came under the trailer as it slowed down for the wreck then speeded up again as it got clear .
When they were ready to leave , Benson and Ramey walked back around the rear of the trailer .
`` There's a body you won't mind looking at '' , Benson said and they stopped .
She had driven up with her husband in a convertible with Eastern license plates , although the two drivers knew nothing at the moment about that .
She wore shorts and a loose terry-cloth shirt .
Slender and tanned , her dark brown hair was drawn straight back , simply .
`` What outfit does she drive for '' ? ?
Benson said .
Seeing her caused a lurch in Ramey , a recognition .
She might have been someone he had once loved .
He had never seen her before , but now he thought of the manner in which he and Benson went in and out of the cities , at each end of their run .
The truck routes , the industrial areas with walls grimed with diesel smoke passed briefly through his mind -- back alleys were their access to a city and they could never stay .
How would you ever see her again ? ?
The feeling subsided , it was only a small yearning .
Their work was lonely .
`` What's she doing in this bunch '' ? ?
Benson said , and Ramey wondered how close their thoughts might have been .
The girl looked around at the countryside .
Her glance swung past the trailer where the two drivers were standing .
It made only a tiny bump over the two men like a tire over a piece of gravel then moved on .
She began to watch a blonde-haired man , also in shorts , standing right at the rear of the wrecked car in the one spot that most of the crowd had detoured slightly .
What had caught his attention was obscured by the car itself , so that neither the girl nor the truck drivers could see , but Benson knew what it was .
The girl took a couple of steps toward the man in shorts when Benson , in that barefoot courtliness Ramey could never decide was real , said , `` You don't want to go around there , Ma'am '' .
The girl stopped but did not turn her head or acknowledge that someone had spoken to her .
The man stood near the bent levi-clad body of the Indian who lay face down almost under the car .
The two drivers moved closer .
`` What does he want , a spoon '' ? ?
Benson said to Ramey .
One tiny detail in a happening can clog the memory and stick like meat in a crooked tooth , while the rest of the occurrence will go hazy and uncertain .
With Ramey it was a dusty work shoe that was half-off the Indian's foot that he would always remember .
The laces were broken at the bottom of the eyelets but there was still a bow knot at the top .
The slightest twitch would have parted the shoe entirely from the foot , yet the toes were still inside .
The two men in overalls stood just behind the blonde-headed man .
He wore tennis shorts and a white sweater with a red V at the neck , the sleeves pushed above the elbows .
He turned and looked at them with clear blue eyes , immaculate eyes .
He was very tanned -- big hands might have torn him from a Coca-Cola poster .
`` He's dead , isn't he '' ? ?
The man said .
He turned and bent over the body of the Indian .
There was nothing in particular on the man's face .
It was simply a matter of curiosity , a natural right to examine .
`` What's this '' ? ?
The man said , backing up a step , still looking down .
His words were mostly to himself .
`` Don't '' .
There was a gentle concern in Benson's voice .
Ramey looked down and saw the white sneaker at the bottom of the man's tanned leg cautiously nudge a bit of folded , blood-flecked substance lying by itself on the pavement .
`` But what is it '' ? ?
The man said with a tone of impatience .
But what is it ? ?
The man had spoken only once .
Ramey heard the words again inside , weakened , the way moving water sounds through a grove of trees , until he was not sure whether it was sound or light-headedness pressing in his ears .
The sneaker reached out once more to tap against the mass and Ramey's vision darkened except for an unreasonable clarity of the man's leg .
Ramey saw sunlight touch the curly blonde hairs on the brown skin .
He stared at the shining , shining circles of hairs and heard the voice of his partner through trees , `` Don't do that , fella .
Them's brains '' .
The man seemed to sink a little as Ramey brought the tire iron down on his shoulder and it seemed that the blonde head was turning as he hit the man again , with his fist .
Ramey swung and caught the man just to the left of his mouth .
It was a straight , solid , once-in-a-lifetime shot ; ;
he laid all four knuckles in between the man's cheekbone and his chin .
Ramey's fist and the air expelled from the man's collapsing cheek made a hollow pop in the air like cupped hands clapping together .
The man took two short steps backward then sat down heavily on the pavement .
Ramey heard a cry from the girl and felt a slight pain somewhere in his hand .
As he watched the man sit suddenly , a detached part of his mind observed how very difficult it was , really , to knock a man off his feet .
He hadn't done it this time and he would never again hit anyone so hard .
With a thoughtful look , the man sat on the pavement , legs straight out in front of him .
His arms hung like empty shirt sleeves , and his mouth was slightly open .
After what seemed several seconds , the open mouth grew dark inside then blood began to ooze from it .
The man brought one hand up slowly and the fingers fumbled across his face until he touched his mouth .
He moaned and pulled the hand away .
Even yet there was no realization in his eyes .
Ramey could hear the crowd coming up rapidly behind him and the questioning voices coming over his shoulder had no identity or importance to him .
He did not look around .
`` What happened '' ? ?
Someone said .
`` He's hurt '' ! !
A woman's voice said , and then he heard a sort of wail from the man's wife .
The man on the ground began to move ; ;
one of his hands flattened out on the pavement and supported him .
Blood dripped down the front of his sweater , soaking into a dark streak of dirt that ran diagonally across the white wool on his shoulder , as though the bright V woven into the neckline had melted , running a darker color .
The girl kneeled by her husband with one arm at his back .
`` Can you hear , can you talk to me '' ? ?
She begged .
An incoherent , puzzled sound came from the red mouth .
The girl looked around quickly at several of the people .
None of the crowd had stepped forward to help .
Then she saw Ramey and her face was misshapen with bewilderment .
`` Why did you do it -- why did you hit him '' ? ?
She said , her voice rising .
Ramey said nothing .
A shine in her eyes suddenly became tears and she turned back to her husband again .
Behind Ramey feet scraped beneath sharp questioning whispers .
No one seemed to know for sure what had happened , nor was there any purpose or responsibility in the muttering feet and urgent voices behind the driver , beyond finding out .
Ramey looked around and caught sight of his partner near the front end of the wrecked truck talking to the patrolman .
Benson moved his arms , gesturing with an unfamiliar vigor and talking rapidly .
Ramey caught a glimpse of the insurance man .
Some of the ruddiness was gone from his face and he stared at Ramey .
It's all over now , the driver thought as he saw the patrolman turn and walk rapidly down along the trailer toward them .
Ramey watched him coming with a vision as clean as the glare on the metal sides of the trailer .
He saw the dark sweat spots flip in and out of sight under the patrolman's swinging arms and in the leather holster that swaggered and rolled at the side of his stocky body , the sun left a smoky shine on the narrow strip of blue metal that ran between the horned handles of his pistol .
`` All right , step back '' ! !
The patrolman said to no one in particular as he pushed between the fat man in the baseball cap and a young boy in levis .
He walked straight up to the man sitting on the ground and bent over to look at him .
`` You all right '' ? ?
`` Mough -- it's my mough '' , the man said , trying to talk without moving his lips .
His brown face looked gray from dirt streaks where his hand had come off the dusty pavement and rubbed across it .
Then he calmly and carefully slugged the remaining five shots into the venomous head -- caught in the wicker back of the chair , the eyes dead on him as the life finally went out of the brute .
The body continued to lash , but now Keith used the legs of the chair to fork the loathsome , bloody mass out of the bungalow .
He slammed the door and listened as his servants ran up , alarmed at the sound of the shots .
He heard their chattering , and then the sounds of hacking as they dismembered the snake right on the porch with wood axes .
It was only then that he turned to look at Penny .
She was sitting on the edge of the bed again , back in the same position where the snake had found her .
The fear had not entirely gone from her face , but there were some other emotions now , crowding into her eyes and the lines of her mouth .
But her hands were calm , now .
She's got guts , thought Keith .
She's got more guts than any other woman in the world .
`` Keith '' , said Penny , `` Keith , you were wonderful .
I don't suppose a wife should be grateful to her husband for saving her life , but I am .
Thank you , Keith '' .
He smiled at her sincerity .
And for the hundredth time that week , he was startled at her beauty .
Strange .
Seven years they'd been married .
He knew her mind pretty well , by now , its quick perceptions and sympathies , its painful insistence on truth and directness , its capacity for love almost too deep for a man to reciprocate , even in part .
But her beauty always surprised him anew .
`` I realize that this is hardly the time to say it , Penny '' , said Keith .
`` But knowing you , I know that you're glad to be alive , and grateful -- and sorry because I killed the snake , even though I had to .
Isn't that so '' ? ?
Penny lowered her eyes .
`` Yes '' , she said , almost in a whisper , as if admitting to a crime .
`` The snake was beautiful , wasn't it '' ? ?
Asked Keith , his voice getting harsher in spite of himself , as he struggled to control his growing anger .
`` It was a king cobra , the largest you ever saw , and it deserved to live out its life in the jungle , didn't it ? ?
didn't it ? ?
''
Penny did not answer .
Now , she just sat there looking at him , without an expression except concern for him .
`` We're all God's creatures , aren't we '' ? ?
Keith was snarling now .
`` All of us -- every goddam roach and worm and killer in that jungle .
You love this village and these stinking brown people because they're God's creatures , too .
And you love Ahmiri , that black bastard of a servant even a little more , because he's a beautiful man .
And he loves you because you're a beautiful woman .
We're all God's creatures , aren't we , Penny ? ?
All of us , that is , except me .
You hate me , you hate my guts , because I like to hunt .
You actually hate me -- and we both know it -- because I killed that filthy snake .
Well , why don't you say something '' ? ?
Penny would not rise to his mood .
`` There isn't anything left to say , is there , Keith '' ? ?
She softly let herself into the bed , and took her regular side , away from the door , where she slept better because Keith was between her and the invader .
He knew she was not sulking , not even angry at him .
Just as he knew that she had stopped loving him .
The Brahmaputra has its headwaters in the tableland of the world , the towering white headwalls of the Himalayas that are unknown to man as any other space on the planet .
For a brief period each year , the rays of the sun are warm enough to melt some of the snows piled a mile deep at the base of the headwalls , and then the pinnacles glisten in the daytime at high noon , and billions of gallons of water begin their slow seepage under the glaciers and across the rockstrewn hanging valleys on their long , meandering journey to the sea -- running east past the sky-carving massifs of Gurla Mandhata and Kemchenjunga , then turning south and curling down through the jungles of Assam , past the Khasi Hills , and into Bengal , past Sirinjani and Madaripur , until the hard water of the melting snows mingles with the soft drainage of fields and at length fans out to meld with the teeming salt depths of the Bay of Bengal .
Keith Sterling had looked down on the Brahmaputra more times than he could remember , during the war days when he flew over the Hump of the world , thinking it high adventure in those times before man was guiding himself through outer space .
But Keith looked down more than up .
He thought of the jungles below him , and of the wild , strange , untracked beauty there and he promised himself that someday he would return , on foot perhaps , to hunt in this last corner of the world where man is sometimes himself the hunted , and animals the lords .
At first it had been just a romantic dream of his , the same as the idea of finishing Oxford after the war .
But `` after the war '' was a luxury of a phrase he did not permit himself .
Wing Commanders in the RAF do not imply survival in the future either in their orders or in their attitudes , to their men or to themselves .
And Keith's record of kills made him a man to listen to -- a man paradoxically , who might even survive .
He became a fighter pilot after the stint over the Hump in the big crates .
The RAF was Britain's weapon of attrition , and flying a fighter plane was the way her sons could serve her best at this point in the war .
He knew how to shoot down Nazis .
And he knew that the men talked about him behind his back , saying that he was one up on everybody else -- including the pilot of the plane with the swastika on it -- because he was chemically incapable of fear .
That was true , but only half the truth .
The other half he didn't like to recognize , even to himself .
He enjoyed the killing .
Not defending England , or being an ace , or fighting for humanity .
He enjoyed killing .
And he would have enjoyed it just as much if he had been a Nazi .
Nowadays , we talk as though the blitz were just a short skirmish .
The Nazis bombed Britain , so the RAF retaliated and shot them all down .
Not quite .
It was a war of nerves , of stamina , of dogged endurance in which the stupid insistence of the British on their right to their own country became ultimately an unsurmountable obstacle to the Nazis , who were better organized and technically superior .
It took a long time before the British tipped the balance .
Keith learned too much about air combat , and air killing , to be risked .
They grounded him ( over his protests -- not including his true reason for wanting to fly ) and put him in the Command offices .
That was where he met Penny .
He was aware of her as a frightfully good-looking American WAC , a second lieutenant assigned to do the paper work , ( regardless of how important she might have thought she was ) in the Command offices , but that was all .
Penny knew him better , on her part .
He had a war reputation , but this was the kind of man women like even without medals .
They don't go for bull-like muscle , as a rule .
He had strength in his six-foot frame , but it was like the tensile steel in a rapier .
He was on the thin side , with big hands , and the kind of wrists that give away the power in forearm and bicep .
His hair was black , already greying at the temples in the classic beauty-idiom , the only one permitted to a man .
The pretty little twittering WACS said he had the look of eagles -- and Penny , hating the cliche , had to admit that in this case it applied .
Keith was an eagle .
Penny and Keith had no romance .
No dates or hand-holding .
But they met in one searing moment that gave them to one another instantly .
The Command offices were in the border country , up north , where the radar systems centralized their intelligence reports , and the fighters were dispatched to harry the enemy .
The Nazis knew this , of course , and while their chief quarry was the industrial centers , they let a few drop every time they went over , hoping for a lucky hit .
This time , they had been lucky .
The Command post was underground , and well camouflaged .
But there hadn't been enough time to build it for keeps .
There was a measure of protection in its concrete walls and ceiling , but the engineers who hastily installed it were well aware that concrete is not much better than prayer , if as efficacious , when a direct hit comes along .
This one was actually more of a `` near miss '' .
The bomb plunged into the ground near the Post , but not precisely into the Command room itself .
There was a shattering , cracking sound as the concrete started to buckle , the air filled with dust and flying debris , and everyone in the room -- men and women hit the floor and used the desks as turtlebacks , as ordered .
That is , everyone but Keith and Penny .
They stood there , just the two of them , in the rocking , shattering blast .
Keith was on his feet because he didn't care at all about life any more : Penny on her feet , proudly , because she cared too much .
The bomb was a solitary one .
The blast damaged , but did not destroy the room .
Keith's eyes met Penny's as they stood there in this strange marriage of destruction .
And , as the others began to crawl out from beneath the desks and tend to those wounded , and mark the several killed , he climbed across the debris to Penny and took her hand in his .
The chaplain married them , on the next day .
After the war , Penny had wanted Keith at least to visit her home with her .
She came from Ohio , from what she called a `` small farm '' of two hundred acres , as indeed it was to farmer-type farmers .
But to Keith's London-bred mind , such acreage sounded rather invincible .
It wasn't that , however , which decided them not to go to America .
Keith told Penny about his dream to return to India and Burma .
He stressed the wild beauty of the mountains , and the jungles .
He didn't tell her the truth he now freely admitted to himself .
He couldn't stop killing .
That was his true love , not Penny .
The terrible power of a gun , the thing that blasted the soul out of a living body , man or beast , was one he never wanted to lose .
And in the hunting land , this hunger was considered to be a noble thing .
When they got to Shillong , in Assam , he was happy .
This is a paradise for hunters .
This was the land of the sladang , the great water buffalo with horns forty inches across the spread .
The great black leopards .
The sambur buck , the jungle stag that is even more noble than the Scottish elk .
He even hunted elephant , although the Asian elephant is not quite as ferocious as his African cousin .
But there are big rogues in both countries .
These were the ones Keith sought out -- the loners , the ones who killed for the joy of it , like himself .
He and Penny would go out on tame elephants , raised from babyhood in the keddah .
And while he was ever alert for game , and most particularly a tiger , Penny marvelled at the Eden they were traversing .
They came upon cheetal deer at woodland pools .
Peacocks strutted across their path , preening .
There were fantastic flowers without perfume , and gaudy birds without song .
Mouse deer played around the feet of the elephants , or fled when the mighty legs thrashed too close .
Wild boar watched their progress with little pig eyes , and grunted derision when they didn't consider such game worthy of a shot from the .
Now , the next morning , they were anchored at The Elbow and the boat was riding directly over the underwater ledge where the green water turned to deepest blue and the cliff dropped straight down 600 fathoms , with the weighted line beside it ; ;
and Robinson Roy , who had gone down this line ten minutes before to set a new depth record for the free dive , was already back on the surface .
He and his safety man , Herr Schaffner , swam up to the boarding ladder together .
The German courteously indicated that Robinson should mount first .
Robinson clambered heavily into the boat , sat down , and stripped off his triple-tank assembly .
He was frowning .
He took his mask from his forehead and threw it , unexpectedly , across the deck .
`` Temper , temper '' , Mrs. Forsythe said , laughing uneasily .
A phony blonde hanging onto a bygone youth and beauty , but irreparably stringy in the neck , she was already working on her second gin and tonic , though it was not yet ten A.M.
`` I loused it '' , Rob said , with a savage note in his voice .
`` All I have to do to set the record is to go on down .
So instead I come up '' .
`` Was it my equipment '' ? ?
The German asked .
`` Was it something went bad with the breathing '' ? ?
`` The equipment was fine '' , Rob stated , standing up .
He was a huge young man of twenty-four , clothed in muscle , immensely strong , with a habitual gentleness and diffidence of manner that was submerged under his present agitation .
He stared stonily at the floor .
`` I was down to 275 .
I've been that far half a dozen times .
I don't get it why this time I should pull such a stupid trick '' .
`` Well , I get it '' , Artie said , still on the ladder .
`` You are a big muscle-bound ape and you got this idea about setting a record .
And you also got this little spark in your bird-brain that tells you to turn around before you drown yourself .
So you turn around '' .
`` No , it wasn't that '' , Rob said .
A note of awe came into his voice .
`` When I came up , damnit , I thought I was going down .
I came up maybe fifty feet before I knew what was happening '' .
`` Pressure-happy '' , Artie said , and climbed in .
`` That's right '' , Robinson said .
`` I was expecting it , sure .
But when it happens to you like that , I tell you , and you're a hundred feet from where you thought you were -- well , it makes you think .
You don't head back down again .
Not me , anyway .
Not right away '' .
He had his voice under control again : no one became aware that he was terrified by what had just happened to him .
Waddell , the newspaperman , was a fellow in his middle forties , with a graying crewcut , heavy-framed glasses , and a large jaw padded with fat .
Now he was going to show how much he knew .
`` Our boy didn't chicken out , no sir .
He ran into the rapture of the depths .
Nitrogen narcosis .
It makes the diver feel drunk '' .
`` Well , that's the only way to be '' , Mrs. Forsythe said , and gave her brassy laugh .
`` Maybe not , if you're 200 feet under water '' , Artie said .
`` Anyway '' , Waddell went on .
`` It's nothing to fool with .
It can kill you .
Personally , I don't blame him for giving up the dive , much as I regret losing the story '' .
`` Nobody's giving anything up '' , Robinson said .
He stood there , towering over them all : gentle , mighty , determined , the moving force in the group ; ;
and yet like a child among adults .
`` You think I got you and Artie and Herr Schaffner all the way out here just for the boat ride ? ?
I'm going down again '' .
`` That's my boy '' ! !
Mr. Forsythe exclaimed .
`` Rob's not going to give up as easy as all that '' .
He was a florid , puffy man in his early sixties , very natty in his yachting cap , striped jacket and white flannels .
He went to Key West every fall and winter and was the only man in town who did not know that his title of `` Commodore '' was never used without irony .
Old Commodore Forsythe , who had once lost a fifty-dollar bet on whether he could get both motors started and turn on the running lights without accidentally turning on something else first .
Now it did not occur to him even to wonder whether it was wise for Robinson to dive again : Rob was his boy , the kid he had rescued from the streets , the object of his pride .
`` Why '' , he went on , `` when Rob asked me if he could make his dive on this trip , I didn't think twice about it .
I've helped him along ever since he was a youngster hanging around his brother's tackle shop .
Hell , I gave him the first decent job he ever had , six , seven -- how many years ago was it , Rob '' ? ?
`` Seven years ago , Commodore '' , Rob said impassively .
He was thinking , big deal : skipper on his drunken fishing parties for seven years and no better off than when I started .
`` Excuse me '' , he said abruptly .
He went down the steps to the galley and sleeping quarters ; ;
went into the forward stateroom and locked the door behind him .
`` When you gotta go , you gotta go '' , Mrs. Forsythe said .
Waddell muttered something about taking a look around and climbed up to the flying bridge .
He was disturbed by what had happened on the dive and by what he remembered of a conversation he had had the night before with the German , who had come out of the head while he was fixing himself a drink in the galley .
`` Hi there , Schaffner '' , he had said .
`` Can I make you one '' ? ?
`` No thank you very much '' , Schaffner had answered in his accented English .
`` I do not drink so much , thank you '' .
Waddell had looked the man over , trying to size him up .
He was in his early forties , rather short and very compactly built , and with a manner that was reserved and stiff despite his efforts to adapt himself to American ways .
His open face seemed to promise a sort of innocence , until one looked into his eyes , which had no warmth in them but only alert intelligence .
Waddell had heard that he had been a commando in Rommel's Afrika Corps , and he said to himself : I'd hate to run into him in the desert on a dark night .
Aloud he had said , making conversation :
`` Rob tells me he's using your Atlantis equipment on the dive '' .
`` Yes '' , Herr Schaffner had said .
`` He's one hell of a decent boy .
I like that kid '' .
`` I agree , yes '' .
`` And if the dive goes OK he has the exclusive import rights to your line for this country , is that right '' ? ?
`` Well , no '' , Herr Schaffner said .
Waddell turned to face him .
`` No '' ? ?
He asked .
`` But that's what he told me .
Why , that's his main reason for making the dive '' .
Shaffner looked at him , altogether without guile , and shrugged his shoulders , making a little spreading gesture with his two hands .
`` What do you mean '' ? ?
Waddell asked , frowning .
`` Please let me explain '' , the German said earnestly , his face still devoid of deceit .
`` I have in Europe a gross business of seven million dollars the year .
Now I wish to enter the American market , where the competition is very strong .
I must have a powerful representative here , a firm with a national distribution and ten , twenty thousand dollars to advertise my products .
With all respect to a fine young man , Mr. Roy is not able to provide these necessaries '' .
Waddell was not an eminently moral person , but he did not like what he had just heard .
`` Did you tell him all this '' ? ?
He asked .
`` Perhaps not in so many words '' , the German said .
`` But surely you have misunderstood Mr. Roy .
Never , never did I offer him the exclusive rights .
We spoke of the need for advertising , and I agreed that the deep dive would be most useful for publicity .
He was most eager to make the dive ; ;
of course , I was willing .
But there was no definite agreement about business arrangements '' .
`` Well , damn '' , Waddell said .
There was the end of his front-page feature story , with byline .
He started out the door .
`` One moment '' ! !
Herr Schaffner said .
`` You intend to speak with Mr. Roy '' ? ?
`` What else '' ? ?
Waddell asked .
`` If you will pardon , I think it would be better if not .
Mr. Roy is determined to make this dive .
Whatever you tell him he will dive .
I know this from my talks with him '' .
`` Well , let's let him make up his own mind , OK '' ? ?
Waddell said .
`` On the basis of the facts '' .
`` You will make him unhappy and anxious '' , the German said .
`` At 200 , 300 , 400 feet under the water , when he must be paying very much attention , he will be thinking about what you are telling him .
It is not good , Mr. Waddell : you will do him great harm '' .
There was no doubt that Herr Schaffner meant every word of what he said .
Waddell came back from the door and sat on a bunk .
`` I am an honest man '' , the German said with fervor .
`` I will give Mr. Roy his due for this dive .
I will make him distributor for all of Florida -- a big market .
All tourists come to Florida .
This will help him to get out of his little tackle shop .
Yes ! !
But there is no use causing him to worry at this time '' .
The German's words worked on the newspaperman like a reprieve from an odious duty .
He took a big swig of his drink .
It would be a colossal shame to throw away a story like this .
`` I think maybe you're right , Schaffner '' , he said .
`` He has the distributorship for Florida , you say '' ? ?
`` Yes '' , the German said .
`` At least for South Florida '' .
`` By God '' , Waddell said , `` we don't want to upset the boy at this time of all times .
I guess you're right '' .
He sloshed his drink around and drained it in a few large gulps .
The story was shaping up nicely in his mind : the young pioneer , as of old , altruistically braving the unknown ; ;
the rewards prompt and juicy in modern big-business America .
`` Join me in another '' ? ?
He had asked .
`` Thank you '' , the German had said courteously .
`` I do not drink so much '' .
Now , in that same cabin , Robinson fell to his knees beside a bunk .
Fear and relief mingled in his churning emotions .
He pressed his palms together and addressed himself to the patron saint of divers in a hurried and anxious whisper .
`` Blessed Saint Nicholas , I thank thee for getting me out of that mess and sending me up instead of down when I was bewildered .
And when I make the dive again '' -- He paused ; ;
crossed himself ; ;
said a Hail Mary , slowly and with understanding .
Folding between his hands the cross that hung from his neck , he took his appeal direct to Headquarters .
`` Holy Mary , Mother of God , Star of the Sea , stay Thou with me on this next dive .
Make it come off all right .
Let me set the record this time , and let me get back OK , so the German will give me the exclusive .
And make my life different and better from this time on .
Amen '' .
He crossed himself again and rose .
He felt a good deal less shaky .
As he reached for the door there was a knock on it and when he opened he found Artie , who came in and sat down on a bunk .
Artie had picked up a snorkle and was twirling it on his forefinger .
He waited awhile before he said , `` Roy , you know your decompression table , don't you '' ? ?
`` You know I know it '' , Robinson answered warily .
`` You came straight up from 275 without a stop '' , Artie said .
`` Well , I was a little bit confused .
Anyway , I wasn't down long enough to matter .
You don't see me stretched out on the deck , do you '' ? ?
`` You know what they say about two deep dives in one day '' , Artie went on , still twirling the snorkle and studying it intently .
`` I don't think you should go down again '' .
Early that day Matsuo saw a marine .
The enemy came looming around a bend in the trail and Matsuo took a hasty shot , then fled without knowing the result , ran until breath was a pain in his chest and his legs were rubbery .
As his feet slowed , he felt ashamed of the panic and resolved to make a stand .
He crossed the next meadow and climbed a tree where the jungle trail resumed .
In the leafiest part of the tree , straddling a broad horizontal limb , he could see over the meadow .
For a while he was content to let events develop in their good time .
He had no doubt the marine was the lead scout of a column , and while his shot had probably bred indecision , they would soon come hunting .
His superiors had emphasized that marines tortured others for the sheer pleasure .
Yesterday ; ;
today ; ;
tomorrow : no surrender .
His remembering the self-dictate brought no peace -- only a faint chill of doubt .
He murmured to himself , with firmness : `` No surrender '' .
It was best to die fighting the marines .
His superiors had also preached this , saying it was the way for eternal honor .
What if the marines never came ? ?
His comrades were all dead .
He had no rice .
Then it would be a choice between starvation and suicide .
Whichever the way , he would rot in this vast choking green , his wife never to receive an urn of his ashes .
He sighed and leaned for a moment against the trunk .
His fingers touched the bone handle of a knife .
The knife , an ammunition pouch , and a half-filled bottle of purified water hung on his belt .
Besides the belt he wore a loin cloth .
As he looked up from picking at a leg ulcer , he saw a marine in the jungle across the clearing .
Gloom receded .
The marine came to the edge of the green jungle mist and stayed , as though debating whether to brave the sunlight .
His fatigues made a streak of almost phosphorescent green in the mist .
`` Come out , come out in the meadow '' , Matsuo said under his breath .
The man leaned against a tree and wiped a sleeve across his face .
A signal ? ?
Matsuo lifted his rifle , easing the sling under his left upper arm for steadiness .
Fresh on his mind were events of the past day when his whole regiment was destroyed in the hills .
They had fought from caves , and the marines resorted to burning them out .
Even now , like a ringing in his ears , he heard the wooooosh of flame-throwers squirting great orange billows .
A wave of flame rippling through their cave had reached Nagamo , his friend , and with a shriek the man bolted through the entrance , then slowed to the jerky walk of a puppet , his uniform blazing .
The marines let him advance .
When he sank on his knees , they had allowed him to char without administering the stroke of mercy .
Matsuo had faked death and was pitched on a stack of corpses , both the burned and the unburned , the latter decomposing rapidly under the tropical sun .
The callous marines had laughed at each other's retching , while stacking bodies .
Matsuo repeatedly choked down his own nausea .
At nightfall he had been able to sneak down a hillside and into the jungle , reeking of death .
Apprehensively he peered to the left , to the right into the leafy , vine-crisscrossed maze .
He decided that the marines must be deploying around the meadow , with the one left to distract him .
He strained his hearing .
Cautious feet stepping on leafmold ; ;
faint creaking of belts and slings ; ;
whispers : he heard none of these .
Only the hum of insects and the distant fluttering call of a bird .
Because he couldn't hear them , he was more convinced they were there .
A spectacle occurred across the meadow : the lone marine took a seat on the ground ; ;
leaning sidewise on a tree trunk , he embraced it .
Humiliation made Matsuo tremble .
While his comrades cocked the trap , that one behaved as if it was some dull maneuver .
Taking aim at the man's face , Matsuo squeezed the trigger up to the point of discharge , and then he changed his mind .
He wanted the arrogant marine to know fear , and so he aimed above the head .
The shot reverberated in diminishing whiplashes of sound .
Hush followed .
Like a mischievous boy expecting punishment , Matsuo awaited reaction from the jungle .
How stupid to give his position away .
The jungle did not retort .
The sitter remained seated hugging the tree .
Before long the atmosphere reverted to its old normalcy , and insects hummed and birds occasionally called .
Matsuo puzzled and grew anxious over the complete passiveness , concluding that he was the butt of a devilish joke .
Five or so minutes later the marine abruptly pulled up and stepped into sunlight , immediately throwing his hands over his eyes .
He went into a whirling dance , a sort of blind chasing of the tail .
It ended when he tumbled ; ;
but jumping right up , he staggered in no particular direction .
He wore no head cover of any kind and , more odd , had no visible weapon .
With a sudden decisiveness he lurched in Matsuo's direction , crossing the meadow in a zigzagging gallop .
When he got closer to the tree , Matsuo noted the wild look on his face .
The pockets of his jacket bulged .
Hand grenades .
The bobbing head was a poor target , so Matsuo shot him in the upper trunk .
The marine spun , clapping a hand high on his chest , and dived forward .
In the hush that followed the echoes , Matsuo was tense .
They could come on him now without difficulty .
Gradually he reached a conclusion .
The marine was alone , for they were impatient people and by now would have vied to knock him from the tree .
Down the tree he scrambled and knelt at the edge of foliage .
The marine was sprawled some thirty yards away , one arm extended .
Matsuo jumped when the hidden arm flopped out .
Reflex ? ?
Rifle leveled on the man , he made a rush .
Heat , in the sunlight , pressed in like an invisible crowd .
He squatted by the head , gently placing the rifle on the ground .
With a snakestrike motion he grasped the hair , and , twisting , pulled the marine over on his back .
He was bearded .
The bullet had penetrated in the area of the right collarbone ; ;
around the hole , blood glistened in a little patch .
Maintaining his clutch on the hair , Matsuo watched the closed eyes while rummaging in the jacket pockets .
In one : a package of cigarettes and a tinplated lighter , both sticky from the man's bleeding .
In the other : a wristwatch with broken crystal wrapped in a dirty handkerchief .
One by one he tossed the objects aside .
He didn't smoke and could not light fires with a flintless lighter ; ;
he had no use any longer for exact time , even had the watch been running .
Then there was no saying how many times the marine had blown his nose on the handkerchief .
Too bad the marine had no water .
From its holder he took his own canteen .
The cap was stuck and made a thin rusty squeaking as he applied pressure .
The marine's eyes opened , squeezed shut , then opened squinted in the glare .
So , alive .
Matsuo put the bottle to his own lips .
The marine reached up a hand .
Matsuo shook his head .
`` None for you '' .
The marine blinked , soon dropping his hand .
Not only had he no canteen , but he lacked even the belt to hang one on .
`` You came well equipped to die '' .
Some odor made him lean over the man .
He sniffed and recognized it .
Sake .
So that had been his difficulty .
Drunk on sake , he must have wandered off from his bivouac .
The marine tried to roll on his right side , and moaned .
When he rolled on the left side , propping on his left elbow , Matsuo seized his hair and pulled him back over .
`` Be a good turtle '' .
Awkwardly with one hand Matsuo got the cap back on the water bottle .
The smell of sake had freshened yesterday's events in his thoughts .
In the caves , with other supplies , they had kept cases of sake .
The marine shut his eyes .
`` Are you a thrower of flame , marine '' ? ?
Matsuo took the small knife from its scabbard and laid it on the ground , out of the marine's reach and away from their shadows .
He waited in his squat , gripping the hair .
Every so often he turned the knife .
Its blade was dazzling in the intense sunlight .
The sun was noon high and Matsuo perspired until his body was dripping .
Wet also were the marine's fatigues and the face had an oily film .
The man had thrown the left hand over his eyes .
Now and again he murmured something that ended in a giggle .
He must have saturated himself in the drink , for the bullet not to shock him out of his drunken haze .
Matsuo shook his head .
Strange .
At last he reached for the knife .
Even the bone handle scorched , and he retrieved the marine's handkerchief to wrap it .
First he barely touched the blade on the hand which shaded the eyes .
The marine yelled and flung the hand away .
With a firm grip on the man's hair Matsuo applied the blade flat on a cheek .
A shrill yelp , kicked legs , and groping hands that circled Matsuo's wrist .
Matsuo wrenched free and burned the hands into retreat ; ;
burned the other cheek ; ;
burned each hand when they came groping again .
The marine commenced to weep and it blighted the sense of enjoyment .
Matsuo stood up .
`` A small measure of payment , marine '' .
He dropped the knife in its scabbard , hung the rifle behind a shoulder .
The marine , hands on cheeks , rolled by his unwounded side onto his stomach .
He ceased weeping .
Matsuo walked toward his tree , once glancing back .
The marine was still .
He would soon die .
As Matsuo climbed by using the vines and kicking his feet against the trunk , a mood of gloom immersed him like a jungle shadow .
What now ? ?
In the jungle , birds were mute , while insects preserved only the monotony of living .
Someone called .
It was the marine : head lifted , he strained and called .
Then he astonished Matsuo by pushing and dragging himself until he sat .
He cupped his mouth and yelled .
Matsuo hustled the rifle off his shoulder .
Once and for all he'd finish this marine who would not die .
He aimed , but listened .
It sounded as if the man were calling him : `` Hey , Japanese hey there , Japanese '' .
The man tilted back his head and went through the pantomime of drinking from a container .
He performed the act twice more , and the begging in his tone grew more distinct .
`` Sake '' ? ?
Matsuo called .
The marine nodded vigorously .
Matsuo laughed , slung the rifle .
The marine was a winehead .
His superiors had said that all marines were depraved .
The marine slumped forward into a bow like a priest before an idol .
Remembering his own thirst , Matsuo took out his water bottle .
One swallow was all he would have ; ;
he was very thirsty , but he must observe water discipline .
His years of campaigning had taught him the value of water discipline .
He began to uncap the bottle , the rusty cap squealing on its threads .
Popping upright , the marine waved both hands and shouted .
Of course it was water he really craved ; ;
down in the broil of the sun he was becoming dried out .
The marine shouted for it until it seemed that his voice had to crack .
Matsuo shook his head .
He had no water for an enemy .
And when this was gone , he hadn't even a little bitter tablet to purify other water if he were to discover some stagnant jungle pool .
He capped the bottle and replaced it .
After all , he had less reason to desire it than the marine .
Before much longer the marine quieted down .
His head slumped .
The upper part of his packet had stained dark .
`` Marine .
There is nothing for you '' , Matsuo said .
`` Your superiors will certainly beat you for your desertion , besides the dishonor of it .
I've nothing for you '' .
From the convulsive quivers of the man's shoulders it was plain he had resumed the weeping .
He reminded Matsuo of a similar thing he had witnessed in China .
In China it was a baby sitting on a railroad platform , smudged , blood-specked , with the village burning about him and shells exploding .
Chairs scraped back and customers hastily vacated their tables as the tall young buffalo hunter pushed open the swing doors and walked towards the bar .
Only Blue Throat and his gang stayed where they were .
Blue Throat was slumped with his back against the bar , elbows supporting his massive frame .
He leered at the stranger as the distance between them closed .
`` Since when did they allow beardless kids into the saloon bars of this town , boys '' ? ?
He asked .
`` Seems to me I don't remember altering any law about that '' .
He straightened up , alert now as the buffalo hunter came closer .
`` Stay right here where you are , kid '' , he called .
`` I don't aim to have minors breathing down my neck when I'm a-drinking '' :
The stranger ignored him .
He didn't stop till he was within three feet of Blue Throat and by that time the gang leader's right hand was on the butt of his revolver .
`` I'm Billy Tilghman '' , said the stranger , `` and I've come for Pat Conyers' body '' .
`` And what makes you think you're going to get it , pretty boy '' ? ?
`` Because I'm asking .
Most of the time I get what I ask for '' .
Blue Throat winked at his six cronies .
`` The kid has no manners , boys .
Shall we teach him some '' ? ?
His gun was half drawn when he asked the question , but the weapon never left its holster .
Tilghman's clenched fist swept over in a terrific right cross and clipped the big gunfighter on the side of his chin .
His head snapped round and he reeled back , crashing into the table where his buddies were sprawling .
Tilghman leapt on to him , dragged him upright and hit him again , this time sending him careening against the bar .
A bullet gouged into the bar top an inch from Tilghman's stomach as Blue Throat's henchmen started shooting .
Tilghman flung himself aside , dropped on one knee and pulled his own gun .
The Colt roared twice and two men dropped , writhing .
A third shot doused the light .
Somewhere at the far end of the room a voice yelled , `` You all right , Billy '' ? ?
`` Yes , George , but I ain't got poor old Pat's body yet .
And I aim to have it '' .
He fired again , and somewhere in the gloom a man screamed .
Another took off his gun belt and flung his weapons to the floor .
`` OK , Tilghman , I'm quitting '' .
`` And me '' , said another Blue Throat henchman .
Somebody brought a light .
Tilghman and his partner , George Rust , herded the men into a corner .
`` And now '' , said Tilghman with deadly calm , `` I'll repeat what I said .
I've come for Pat Conyers' body '' .
In two minutes the body of Tilghman's former comrade , who had been killed by Blue Throat in a gambling brawl the previous night , was carried into the town's funeral parlor to be prepared for decent burial .
Blue Throat , nursing an aching jaw and a collosal dose of wounded pride , rode out of town with the survivors of the fight .
`` That critter will be back tomorrow '' , predicted George Rust , `` and he'll bring fifty of his kind back with him .
Blue Throat won't stand for this .
He'll shoot up the town '' .
The prediction was correct .
The Reverend James Doran had scarcely completed Pat Conyers' last rites on Boot Hill in the township of Petrie , when shots were heard in the distance .
`` Amen '' , said the Reverend Doran , grabbing his rifle propped up against a tombstone , `` and now my brethren , it would seem that our presence is required elsewhere '' .
Billy Tilghman and his comrades rode off to the battle .
Blue Throat , who had ruled the town with his six-shooter for the last six months , certainly had no intention of relinquishing his profitable dictatorship .
It was essential that he should restore his formidable reputation as a rip-roaring , ruthless gun-slinger , and this was the time-honored Wild West method of doing it .
He rode in at the head of sixty trigger-happy and liquor-crazed desperadoes and took over a livery barn at the entrance to Main Street .
The entire length of the street could be raked with rifle fire from this barn .
Any posse riding down the street to demand Blue Throat's surrender would be wiped out with one deadly burst of fire .
The law-abiding citizens of Petrie had gathered inside Kaster's Store , halfway down the street .
Several were firing into the barn when Billy Tilghman arrived .
He sized up the situation and shook his head .
`` If Blue Throat has his way he'll keep us all cooped up in here for days '' , he said .
`` There's only one thing to move him fast , and we have it right here in this very store '' .
He called the store owner and together they went into the stockroom .
Billy returned with six sticks of dynamite .
`` I'm gonna drop these into Blue Throat's lap '' , he announced , `` and I'd like every gun to be firing into that barn while I get near enough to toss 'em through the window '' .
He slipped outside , hugging the walls of buildings and dodging into doorways .
Blue Throat's men spotted him and a hail of bullets splintered the store fronts and board walk as he passed .
Fifty yards away from the barn he dodged inside a barber's shop and came out at the back .
Here he couldn't be seen by Blue Throat and his gang .
All he had to do was light the fuses of the dynamite sticks , run to within ten yards of an open window in the barn and hurl the sticks through .
Billy Tilghman did just that .
Within seconds the big barn was blasted into smoking splinters , with every outlaw either dead or injured inside .
It was the abrupt end of Blue Throat's dictatorship in Petrie .
Though only slightly injured himself the big hoodlum never returned to those parts .
To Tilghman the incident was just one of a long list of hair-raising , smash-'em-down adventures on the side of the law which started in 1872 when he was only eighteen years old , and did not end till fifty years later when he was shot dead after warning a drunk to be quiet .
Of all the rip-roaring two-fisted tough boys of the Old West , `` Uncle Billy Tilghman '' stands out head and shoulders .
He was the lawman who survived more gunfights than any other famous gun-slinging character in the book .
He saw the most action , beat up more badmen with his bare fists , broke up the most gangs and sent more murderers to the gallows than any other U.S. marshal who lived before or after him .
For fifty years his guns and ham-like fists shot holes through and battered the daylights out of the enemies of law and order in the frontier towns of the West .
The deeds of countless western bandits and outlaws have been glorified almost to the point of hero-worship , but because Billy Tilghman remained strictly on the side of the law throughout his action-packed career , his achievements and the appalling risks he took while taming the West have remained almost unsung .
Citizens took the view that a lawman was expected to risk his life on the odd occasion anyway , but this fighting fury of a man risked it regularly over a period of half a century .
He came within an ace of being riddled with bullets during his long fight with the Doolin gang which terrorized Oklahoma in the 1890's .
Led by Bill Doolin , these mobsters specialized in train robberies but as a sideline they looted stores and robbed banks , making liberal use of their guns .
Bill Doolin's ambition , it appeared , was to carve out his name with bullets alongside those of Jesse James and Billy the Kid , and Bill Tilghman had sworn he would stop him .
Tilghman knew that some ranchers were hand-in-glove with the Doolin gang .
They bought rustled cattle from the outlaw , kept him supplied with guns and ammunition , harbored his men in their houses .
Billy decided to set an example by arresting one of the ranchers , named Ed Dunn , who lived at Rock Fort .
On a bitterly cold day in January , 1895 , accompanied only by Neal Brown as his deputy , Tilghman left the township of Guthrie and headed for Rock Fort and Dunn's ranch .
It was snowing hard when they got there and they saw no horses outside .
The only evidence of occupation came from the chimney , which was belching out thick smoke .
The two lawmen halted their wagon about twenty yards from the door .
`` Wait here , Neal '' , said Tilghman .
`` If I don't come out within half an hour ride back to town and bring out a posse '' .
Leaving his rifle in the wagon , Tilghman walked up to the door and hammered on it .
There was no reply so he shoved it open with his foot and stepped inside .
Directly opposite the door was a roaring log fire , a welcome sight on that bitterly cold day .
Seated near it with his back to the door was the rancher , Ed Dunn .
`` Hello , Ed '' , said Tilghman .
The rancher grunted an acknowledgement but didn't move .
Tilghman closed the door behind him and walked towards the fire .
Suddenly he saw something which made his big heart give a sickening lurch and caused the hairs to bristle on the back of his neck .
Along each side of the room were six tiered bunks , each one screened off with a curtain .
And projecting wickedly through these curtains were the gleaming muzzles of six rifles , all trained on Billy Tilghman .
The fighting marshal had walked right into a trap and at any moment six slugs might slam into his hide .
Thinking fast , Tilghman never hesitated for one instant .
He walked right up to the fire as though blissfully unaware of the guns covering him .
The men behind them were Bill Doolin and five of his gang -- every man a killer .
`` Cold day '' , said Tilghman , placing his hands behind him and casually presenting his backside to the fire .
`` Just dropped in to ask where Jed Hawkins lives .
Can't seem to locate landmarks in this snow '' .
The rancher was trembling .
He wouldn't look Tilghman in the face .
`` Follow the river for five miles '' , he said hoarsely .
`` Jed's homestead is on the south bank '' .
Resisting the overwhelming temptation to flng himself out of that bristling death-trap , Tilghman deliberately engaged the nervous rancher in trivial conversation for a good ten minutes .
All that time rifle barrels were pointing unwaveringly at his head and body .
One false move on his part and he would be a dead man .
`` Well '' , he announced , `` Guess I'll be going now , Ed , and thanks for the warmup '' .
He strolled back to the door , whistling softly , hands still clasped behind him .
He left the house and almost certain death without even increasing his pace and wondered by what remarkable stroke of Providence he had been allowed to come out alive .
But he knew well enough that those guns would still be trained on his back as he walked towards the wagon .
If he showed signs of collecting his rifle and going back with his deputy to the ranch he would be shot down instantly .
Leisurely he climbed on to the wagon next to Neal Brown .
`` Don't say or do anything '' , he said softly .
`` Just get out of here without it looking as though we're in a hurry .
That place is crawling with Bill Doolin and his gang '' .
Even as he spoke those words Billy Tilghman's life hung on a thread .
Back in the house a hoodlum named Red Buck , sore because Billy had been allowed to leave unscathed , jumped from a bunk and swore he was going after him to kill him right then .
`` You'll stay right here '' , commanded Bill Doolin , covering Red with his rifle .
`` Billy Tilghman is too good a man to shoot in the back .
We'll let him go '' .
But the fighting marshal's fifty-year run of immunity from violent death came to a full and final stop one night in a street at Cromwell , Oklahoma , where he had been sent to clean up the gambling and vice rackets .
Wiley Lynn , a self-styled prohibition officer , had hit town the previous day and had been drinking ever since .
That night he reeled out of Ma Murphy's dance hall and proceeded to disturb the peace by shooting off his revolver .
For several months now , Jack Carter , a big overgrown boy of fifteen with a fuzzy , pimpled face and greenish catlike eyes with a lot of red in them , had been haunted by a dream , a vision , of a Woman .
This Woman had no distinct shape or size and no particular face , but she radiated warmth , a sweet warmth ; ;
she would talk to him in a soothing voice about things his mother would have said were not nice and put her hands on him and kiss him passionately .
When she would do these things , he would turn blind for an instant and become sick at his stomach .
Then he would run to the toilet behind the house .
Sometimes he did this three or four times a day , for this Woman was almost always with him .
He would feel ashamed each time and wonder whether his mother and father knew -- thinking they might see it in his eyes or smell it on him .
But they never said anything , so he figured it was all right .
And so when Miss Langford came to teach at the one-room Chestnut school , where Jack was a pupil in the eighth grade , the Woman of Jack's mind assumed the teacher's face and figure .
He could not keep his eyes off her when at school ; ;
when he went home at night , he took her with him in his mind , and she did the things the anonymous Woman used to do , and he did the thing afterwards each time as he used to do .
When he awoke in the mornings , she was in his mind and he could hardly wait to get to school to be near her in the flesh .
Miss Langford ( her first name was Evelyn ) was an attractive girl .
Tall , blonde , blue-eyes , fair , buxom without being heavy , she cut a fine figure of budding womanhood as she swished among the pupils in her fresh , starched summer dress .
Something was beginning to stir and come alive in her , too ( it may have been there for a good while , since she was twenty now ; ;
but if it had been , it had been smothered until now by fear ) : you could tell it by the way she watched the older , bigger boys , like Jack .
She would look at Jack , with that hidden something in her eyes , and Jack would see the Woman and become breathless and a little sick .
School began in August , the hottest part of the year , and for the first few days Miss Langford was very lenient with the children , letting them play a lot and the new ones sort of get acquainted with one another .
The first two or three days they went home early .
All , that is , except Jack .
He hung around the schoolhouse , watching through a window from outside while Miss Langford straightened desks and put the room in order .
Once ( this was on the third day of school ) she kneeled down to pick up some books where they'd dropped on the floor and Jack looked up her dress -- at the bare expanse of incredibly white leg .
He thought for a moment his heart had stopped beating .
About that time Miss Langford straightened up and looked out the window directly at him , he thought , although probably she didn't even see him .
He jumped back , ducked and ran , crouching , down the hill away from the school .
He didn't look back and he ran until he was out of sight of the schoolhouse and out of breath ; ;
then he slowed to a walk .
The vision became even stronger now .
`` I'll get her yet '' , he muttered to himself .
`` I've got to get her '' .
That night he dreamed a dream violent with passion , in which he and the Woman , now the teacher , did everything except engage in the act ( and this probably only because he had never engaged in the act in reality ) , and when he awoke the next morning his heart was afire .
He ate litle that morning , and his mother became concerned , inasmuch as he usually ate heartily .
`` What's the matter , honey '' ? ?
She said , with the solicitude of a middle-aged woman for her only child .
`` Aren't you hungry '' ? ?
`` No , I'm not hungry '' , he said , pushing back the bacon and eggs .
Outside it was already hot at 7:30 A.M. , and it was getting hot in the kitchen .
He felt a little sick at his stomach .
`` Are you sick '' ? ?
`` No '' , he said .
`` I'll be all right .
I guess it's this hot weather '' .
`` Don't you play hard today then .
And if you get sick , ask the teacher to let you come home early .
Daddy left the car for me , and I'm going to town this afternoon '' .
`` OK. , I won't play hard '' , he promised .
Just then Charles Lever yelled , `` Hey , Jack '' , from the quarry road which ran behind the Carter house , and Jack grabbed the lunch from the table and darted out the kitchen door , yelling `` Good-bye , Mom '' over his shoulder .
`` Whaddya say , boy '' ? ?
Charles said , grinning , showing his huge yellow teeth .
Charles , also fifteen , was tall and skinny , scraggly , with straight black hair like an Indian's and sharp brown eyes .
He considered himself handsome and seemed to think all the girls were after him .
`` You know what I done last night '' ? ?
Charles said as they picked their way over the rocky road which led up the hill away from the Dixie Highway , through a corn field and a patch of woods to the school .
Jack knew of course that the tale to be unfolded would involve a girl and probably be dirty , because girls were Charles' only apparent interest .
But Jack always derived vicarious sensual thrills from Charles' revelations ( even when he suspected his friend of exaggeration or invention ) , so he usually invited them , as he did now .
`` No .
What '' ? ?
`` I got Margaret Rider in one of them old box cars down there by the quarry '' .
A nude imaginary picture of Miss Langford flashed across Jack's mind .
His heart beat faster .
`` Hell you say '' ? ?
He said , lapsing into the profanity he often used when away from his parents and especially when he was with Charles .
`` How'd you do it '' ? ?
`` Hell , I jist got on top of -- ''
`` No , I mean how'd you get her to do it '' ? ?
`` Hell , I jist ask her '' .
`` Jist like that '' ? ?
`` Hell , yes .
She's been hangin' around me a lot here lately , and I figgered I might as well's try it .
Besides I heard her old uncle that stays there has been doin' it '' .
`` I never heard that '' .
`` It's all over Branchville .
If you'd get out of your back yard once in a while you might even get her your ownself '' .
`` I might try it one of these days '' , Jack said wonderingly , thinking of Miss Langford .
When they reached the school , a gang of boys and girls were already there playing `` crack the whip '' in front of the schoolhouse .
Miss Langford , in a fresh white dress and low-heeled white sandals , without socks , was out there with them , trying to get them inside .
`` Time for books '' , she yelled , jingling a little five-and-dime store bell in her right hand .
`` Let's go inside '' .
`` Oh , come on Miss Langford , play with us just onct '' , one of the little girls begged , smiling wistfully .
`` No , not now '' , said the teacher .
`` Maybe at dinner time .
Come inside now '' .
The children grudgingly stopped playing then and straggled into the schoolhouse .
Jack watched Miss Langford all morning .
He could think of nothing else save his mental image of her nude figure and what Charles had said that morning about Margaret Rider .
Occasionally he would look across the aisle at Margaret , fourteen and demure in a fresh green organdy dress , sitting in the sixth-grade row , and he could hardly believe she would do what Charles had said she did .
At noontime , remembering what the teacher had said about maybe playing with the kids , Jack stayed close to the schoolhouse while all the other big boys , except Charles , went off out the road to play ball .
`` Why ain't you playin' ball '' ? ?
He asked Charles suspiciously as they sat in the well-house shade , watching the girls congregate in front of the schoolhouse .
`` Miss Langford , come out and play with us like you promised '' , several of the little girls called .
`` I'd druther stay here and watch the girls '' , Charles grinned .
`` Maybe some of 'em will fall down and we'll see up their dress '' .
`` Maybe '' , Jack said idly , watching for Miss Langford .
Presently she came out of the schoolhouse .
When she appeared , two or three of the little girls jumped up and down , yelling , `` Goody , goody '' .
`` Let's play with 'em '' , Jack said , rising from where he sat on the ground and dusting off his overall pants .
`` O.K. '' Charles rose also , and the two of them moved over to join the girls .
They played crack the whip a few minutes without mishap .
Then when Miss Langford was on the end of the line of girls , Jack , in the middle of the line , gave an extra hard pull and the young teacher sprawled backwards , sitting down hard , her dress flying over her head .
While she was struggling to get her skirt down and get on her feet again , Jack ran over , offered her his hand and said , `` Gosh , I'm sorry , Miss Langford .
I didn't mean to pull so hard '' .
`` That's all right '' , she said , tossing her head back to get the hair out of her eyes .
`` It was my fault '' .
With one hand she held her skirt down while she took Jack's extended hand with the other .
When her hand touched his , fire went through Jack and he felt weak , but he managed somehow to get her on her feet .
He thought she gave him that look with the hidden something in it as he let her hand go .
`` Thank you '' , she said , dusting herself off .
`` Will you play with us again , Miss Langford '' ? ?
One of the little girls said .
`` No more today .
Maybe some other day '' .
`` Oh , shucks '' , the girl said .
`` I don't believe I'll play any more neither '' .
`` Me neither '' , others said , and soon the game broke up , the children going off in pairs , in larger groups and alone .
Jack walked off alone out the road in the searing midday sun , past Robert Allen's three-room , tarpapered house , toward the field where the other boys were playing ball , thinking of what he would do in order to make Miss Langford have him stay in after school -- because this was the day he had decided when he thought he saw the look in her eyes .
When he came back to the schoolhouse , his mind was made up .
He simply would not work his arithmetic problems when the teacher held his class .
That should do it , he thought , because Miss Langford had said she was going to be strict about school work .
He had considered throwing erasers or flipping paperwads at someone or pulling the hair of the girl sitting in front of him , but he couldn't take a chance on either of these possibilities : the teacher probably would make him stand face-to-wall in a corner instead of stay in after school .
The only drawback now to the plan he'd decided on was that someone else might fail to do his work , too , and the teacher would have that person stay late along with Jack .
`` But I've got to take a chance on it '' , he told himself desperately .
To his surprise his plan worked perfectly .
`` All right , if you can't do your arithmetic during school hours you can do it after school is out '' , Miss Langford said firmly , not smiling .
`` You will stay here thirty minutes after the others go home this afternoon and work your problems '' .
And so when the others stampeded out that afternoon Jack remained docilely in his seat near a window , looking out in what he hoped was a pitiable manner , while the other kids laughed and yelled in at him and made faces as they dispersed , going home .
He scarcely saw them .
His heart was pounding like a mighty dynamo and he was trying to think , his mind seeming to scream at him like a hurt or frightened child , `` How will I do it ? ?
On the fringe of the amused throng of white onlookers stood a young woman of remarkable beauty and poise .
She munched little ginger cakes called mulatto's belly and kept her green , somewhat hypnotic eyes fixed on a light-colored male who was prancing wildly with a 5-foot king snake wrapped around his bronze neck .
The youth with the snake had a natural pride and joy of life which appealed to the woman .
Lithe and muscular , he had well-molded features , and his light color told of the European ancestors who had been intimate with the slave women of his family .
The haughty white girl turned to a distinguished , hawk-faced man standing at her side and murmured : `` Look at your watch , Col. Garvier .
It is almost time for and calinda to begin '' .
Col. Henri Garvier was one of New Orleans' most important and enlightened slave owners .
He chuckled and gave the signal for the dance to start .
The slaves ran gaily to the center of Congo Square and gathered around a sweaty youth they called Johnny No-Name .
Johnny vigorously pounded two bleached steer bones against the gourd which served as his drum .
He showed his gleaming tusks of teeth and bellowed incoherently , his brass earrings jangling discordantly as he shook and trembled in ecstasy .
The drummer flogged the gourd with frantic intensity as the dancers began the calinda , a sensual gyration which had long been a favorite of voodoo practitioners and their disciples in the Louisiana slave compounds .
The dance was of Haitian origin .
The white girl with the penetrating green eyes sipped the lemonade handed to her by a handsome man of about 30 , who had coppery skin and beetling eyebrows .
He was possessive in his manner and , though a slave , obviously was educated after a fashion and imitated the manners of his owners .
He proudly wore the blue livery of her house , for the girl was Madame Delphine Lalaurie , wife of the prominent surgeon , Dr. Louis Lalaurie , who bore one of the South's oldest and most cherished names .
Delphine was a pace-setter in high society .
She was a top horsewoman and one of the city's most gracious hostesses .
Although New Orleans was not to learn of it for a spell , she also was a sadist , a nymphomaniac and unobtrusively mad -- the perpetrator of some of the worst crimes against humanity ever committed on American soil .
Madame Lalaurie gestured with her riding crop toward the 20-year-old youth who was stomping and writhing with the king snake still draped over his bare shoulders .
The slender , handsome fellow was called Dandy Brandon by the other slaves .
He was gifted with animal magnetism and a potent allure for women of any race .
But Dandy had had little experience with girls on his master's plantation in Bayou St. John .
Shy , actually , he avoided feminine overtures and seemed truly ignorant of the girls' desires when they sought to make liaisons with him in the open fields , in carriages and in boathouses .
This young slave was therefore quite unprepared when Delphine Lalaurie signaled that she wanted him to draw near .
The woman eyed the youth with the avidity a coin collector might display toward a rare doubloon which is not yet in his collection .
`` What is your name , boy ? ?
Come a bit closer .
I won't bite , you know '' .
He gaped at Madame Lalaurie and sniffed the Paris perfume which emanated from her .
Then he smiled shyly .
`` My name is Dandy Brandon , missy .
I belong to Master Alexander Prieur '' .
She said with intense feeling : `` Come near , let me feel your arms .
You look quite strong and healthy to me , Dandy '' .
Mrs. Lalaurie impatiently propelled the slave toward her waiting carriage .
Lifting her skirts , she climbed in , never relinquishing her grip on his arm .
The woman seemed utterly unafraid of the snake which coiled on the floor in a torpor .
Once inside the luxuriosly-upholstered landau , she drew the curtains and proceeded to give the startled youth the kind of physical examination usually reserved for army inductees .
Satisfied at last , and after a few amorous gambits on her part which convinced Delphine that Dandy was capable of learning new arts , she opened the window and called to her liveried driver .
This was the big man with the proprietory air and the beetling , shaggy eyebrows .
`` Aristide ! !
I want you to find Monsieur Prieur at once and give him this money for the boy's purchase .
There's $600 in gold in this chamois sack .
If the old fool argues about the price , tell him I shall order my husband not to treat him as a patient any longer .
Prieur has gout and depends on Louis' pills and bleedings .
Besides , he owns 300 slaves .
One less shouldn't matter to him '' .
Aristide Devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought in chains years before from his native Sierra Leone , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat .
His bold eyes raked the woman , and a perceptive spectator might sense that there was more to their relationship than that of slave to owner .
`` Another youth , Madame '' ? ?
The coachman said softly .
`` This one is a tender chicken , oui ? ?
Such delicate beauty , such fine flesh .
It will rip and shred easily for Madame '' .
`` Be quiet , Devol ! !
You are forgetting your place '' .
The tall coachman walked off briskly in search of Alexander Prieur .
Delphine Lalaurie took the reins in her gloved hands and drove Dandy Brandon -- cowering in the back seat of the carriage -- to her mansion at 677 Perdido Street .
Dr. Louis Lalaurie stood on the veranda at the head of the driveway and watched his carriage as it approached the pillared mansion .
Dandy , curiosity overcoming his apprehensions , peered out at the doctor from the window of the vehicle .
He saw a pint-sized man with a graying spade beard and an unusually large head .
Dr. Lalaurie wore a maroon smoking jacket , and his myopic eyes were blurry and glistened behind thick octagonal lenses .
He was about 50 years old .
`` Another young man , my dear ? ?
Really , you are most indiscreet to drive him here yourself '' , he said , frowning with displeasure .
Delphine presented her cheek for a kiss , and the physician pecked it like a timid rooster .
`` Dandy is to be our house guest , Louis .
I want the room in the attic prepared for him He is a most unusual lad , quite precocious in many ways .
He deserves a better life than just rotting away on the Prieur plantation '' .
`` Quite so , my dear .
His room will be ready shortly '' .
The physician led the horses to the stable after a cursory glance at the cringing slave .
Had Dandy been older or wiser , instinct might have warned him that he would be well advised to flee from the Lalauries' tender care if he valued his life .
But he liked the smell of Delphine's perfume .
Besides , her endearments and caresses in the carriage had been new and stirring experiences to the simple youth .
Also , he was weary of plantation drudgery and monotony .
So Dandy Brandon trustingly entered the house with Delphine Lalaurie and trudged up the rear steps to the attic room which was to be his new home .
Airless and dingy though it was , the attic represented luxury to a slave who had led a wretched life with six brothers and sisters and assorted relatives in a shanty at Bayou St. John .
He bounced exuberantly on the sagging bed and was even more delighted when Madame Lalaurie -- after closing the door -- showed the slave that the bed was designed for something other than slumber .
It was just as well that the ignorant Dandy enjoyed himself to the hilt that first evening , for the room was to become his prison cell .
When he finally left the sinister mansion on Perdido Street , he was carried out in a coroner's basket .
Just six weeks after Dandy Brandon's arrival at the mansion , the little surgeon and his svelte young wife gave their annual open house and ball , to which only New Orleans' oldest and wealthiest families were invited .
A stringed orchestra played softly behind the potted palms , and Delphine circulated graciously among her guests , chatting airily of the forthcoming races , the latest fashions from Paris , and Louisiana politics .
Suddenly there was a commotion upstairs , a despairing boyish shriek , and the strains of the waltz faltered and died as the musicians and guests gaped at an apparition descending the marble staircase .
It was Dandy Brandon , clad only in a bloody loincloth , emaciated and quaking as if the devil were breathing hard on him .
The lad's once superb body was a mass of scars and welts .
His pinched face showed the ravages of malnutrition .
Feebly he pointed an accusing finger at Madame Lalaurie and shouted : `` Evil woman ! !
You did this you like to hurt to beat people I want to go home '' .
These were the last words he ever uttered .
Convulsively , he spat up some blood and collapsed into the arms of Senator Gaston Berche , crimsoning the frilly shirt and waistcoat the politician wore .
Dr. Louis Lalaurie examined the inert form of the slave on the parquet dance floor and pronounced him dead .
The ball broke up in confusion .
Guests stared with horror at Madame Lalaurie and made speedy departures .
Delphine stood like stone , her eyes alive with hate as she looked down at the sheeted corpse .
But at the coroner's inquest Delphine told a forthright story .
`` I saw the boy Dandy at the Congo Square festivities and felt sorry for him .
It was our hope to educate him and to give him his freedom when the right time came , for he was a bright and friendly youth who seemed worthy of our interest .
After I paid Monsieur Prieur for Dandy , I brought him home , but he was ill at ease and ran away the same night .
How he returned in such a ghastly condition , or why , I cannot say .
Dr. Lalaurie and I didn't even know he was in the house until the night of our ball when he came down the stairs '' .
She daubed at her swimming eyes with a lacy handkerchief and said with obvious emotion : `` That poor boy ! !
He must have fallen in with evil companions , for he was a simple youth and quite trusting and inexperienced .
Ruffians must have robbed and beaten him before bringing him back to our house to die .
Such a pitiful end '' ! !
Though the slave's dying words about the woman troubled the coroner's panel , Dandy's accusation was adjudged an aberration by the jury and disregarded .
The Lalauries were at the top rung of the social ladder , and even a jury didn't feel privileged to doubt the veracity of so illustrious a lady .
Moreover , runaway slaves frequently got into serious trouble in New Orleans' dives .
So the verdict was `` death at the hands of a person or persons unknown '' , and the elite of the city , accepting Delphine's testimony , welcomed her and the doctor back into the fold .
Once again life went its serene way -- soirees , fox hunts , balls and dinners .
The excitement over Brandon's bizarre death abated and Madame Lalaurie's stock soared when she resumed her self-imposed chores of visiting the poor and bringing cakes and comfort to destitute patients in the county hospital .
Then , on July 2 , there occurred another incident which set tongues to wagging at a furious clip .
Mrs. Victor Dominique , socially prominent and a neighbor of the Lalauries , chanced to glance out of her parlor window at dusk one evening and beheld an amazing sight .
The manservant Devol and his mistress , Delphine Lalaurie , were pursuing a young girl -- an octoroon of cameo-like beauty -- across the front lawn of the Lalaurie mansion .
The girl was not more than 16 .
She was nude to the waist and her tumbled abundance of black hair did not conceal the knife slashes on her back .
The bleeding girl was tiring fast ; ;
the coachman and Delphine were gaining on her as she raced down Perdido Street .
The fugitive cried out in an oddly sibilant voice : `` Help me , somebody ! !
They have pulled out all my teeth and now she will carve out my tongue with her hacksaw ! !
`` Bastards '' , he would say , `` all I did was put a beat to that Vivaldi stuff , and the first chair clobbered me '' ! !
Since then , and since the pure grain had gotten him divorced from every decent -- and even indecent -- group from Greenwich Village to the Embarcadero , he had become a sucker-rolling freight-jumper .
`` There ain't nothin' faster , or lonelier , or more direct than a cannonball freight when you wanna go someplace '' , Feathertop would say .
`` The accommodations may not be the poshest , but man ! !
There ain't nobody askin' for your ticket stub , neither '' .
He had been conning the freights for a long , long time now .
Ever since the hooch , and the trouble with the Quartet , and Midge and the child .
Ever since all that .
It had been a very long time that had no form and no end .
He was -- as he told himself in the vernacular of a trade no longer his own -- riding the dark train out .
Out and out and never to return again .
Till one day the last freight had been jumped , the last pint had been killed , the last beat had been rapped .
That was the day it ended .
The freight car was cold , early in the morning .
He was pressed far back into the corner of the car on his hay sacks , the rattling and tinning of the wheels on the rails almost covering the sound of his ocarina .
He held his elbows away from his body , and the little sweet potato trilled neatly and sweetly as he tickled its tune-belly .
The train slowed at a road crossing , and the big door slid open ; ;
at first gratingly , caught by grains of corn -- then with a clash into its slot .
The boy lifted the girl by the waist and set her on the lip of the floor .
She pulled her legs up under her , to rise , her full peasant skirt drawing up her thighs , and Feathertop's music pfffted away .
`` Now that is a very nice , a very nice '' , he murmured to himself , back in his corner .
A little thing , but the right twist for the action that counted .
Hot , that was the word , hot ! !
Hair like a morning-frightened sparrow's wings , with the sun shining down over them .
A poet , yet ! !
His thoughts for the swanlike neck , the full , high breasts , the slim waist , and the long legs were less than poetic , however .
Zingggg-O ! !
Then the boy straight-armed himself up , twisting at the last moment so he landed sitting .
He was less to see , but Feathertop took him in , too , just to keep the records straight .
Curly hair , high cheekbones , wide gnomelike mouth , a pair of drummer's blocky hands , and a body that said well , maybe I can wrestle you for ten minutes -- but then I'm finished .
`` We made it , Cappy '' , the chick said .
`` Yeah , seems so , don't it '' , the boy laughed , hugging her close .
`` Ah-ah '' ! !
Feathertop interrupted , standing up , brushing the pig offal from his dirty pants .
`` None of that .
We run a respectable house here '' .
They whirled and saw him , standing there dim in the slatted light from the boarded freight wall .
He was big , and filthy , and his toes stuck out of the flapping tops of his shoes .
He held the black plastic kazoo lightly .
`` Come sit '' , said Feathertop , motioning them toward him .
`` That crap is softer over here '' .
The girl smiled , and started forward .
The boy yanked her back hard , tugging her off her feet , and gathered her into the crook of his arm .
`` Now stay with me , Kitty '' , he snapped irritably .
`` I vowed to take care of you -- and that's what I'm gonna do .
We don't know this guy '' .
`` Oooo , square bit '' , Feathertop screwed his face up .
This guy was strictly from Outsville .
But nowhere ! !
`` What is with this vow jazz '' ? ?
Feathertop inquired , lounging against the freight's vibrating wall .
`` We -- we eloped '' , Cappy said .
His head came up and he said it defiantly .
`` Well , congratulations '' .
Feathertop made an elaborate motion with his hand .
These two were going to be easy pickins .
They couldn't have much dough , but then none of the freight-bums Feathertop rolled had much .
And besides , the chick had a little something the others didn't have .
That was gonna be fun collecting ! !
But not just yet .
Feathertop was a connoisseur .
He liked to savor his meat before he tasted it .
`` Come sit '' , he repeated , motioning to the piled hay bags , over the pig leavings .
`` I'm just a poor ex-jazz man , name of -- uh -- Boyd Smith '' .
He grinned at them wolfishly .
`` That ain't your name , Mister '' , the boy accused .
`` And you know -- you're right '' ! !
Feathertop aimed a finger at him .
`` Oh , come on , Cappy '' , the girl chided .
`` He's okay .
He's a nice guy '' .
She started to move toward the hay bags , dragging the reluctant Cappy behind her .
Feathertop watched the smooth scissoring of her slim , trim legs as she walked to the bags , and tucked them beneath her , smoothing the skirt out in a wide circle .
He cleared his throat ; ;
it had been a long , hot while since he'd seen anything as nice as this within grabbin' distance .
He had it all doped , of course .
Slug the kid , grab his dough -- at least enough to get to Philadelphia -- and then have a rockin' ball with the doll .
Hmm -- diddle ! !
`` Where'd you come from , Mr. -- uh -- Mr. Smith '' ? ?
Kitty inquired politely .
`` Where from '' ? ?
He mused .
`` Out .
I been riding train for a ways now '' .
They lapsed into silence , and the freight wallowed up a hill , scooted down the other side , shaking and clanking to itself .
After a while , Kitty murmured something to Cappy , and he held her close , answering , `` We'll just have to wait till we pull into Philly , honey '' .
`` What's the matter , she wanna go the bathroom '' ? ?
Ernie found it immensely funny .
The boy scowled at him , and the girl looked shocked .
`` No ! !
Certainly not , I mean , no that isn't what I said '' ! !
She snapped at him .
`` I only said I was hungry .
We haven't had anything to eat all day '' .
Joviality suffused Feathertop Ernie Cargill's voice as he reached behind him , pulling out a battered carpet bag , with leather handles .
`` Whyn't ya say so , fellow travelers ! !
Why , we got dinner right here .
C'mon , buddy , help me set up the kitchen and we'll have food in a minute or two '' .
Cappy looked wary , but he moved off the floorboards and followed the dirty ex-musician to the center of the refuse-littered boxcar .
Ernie crouched and opened the carpet bag .
He took out a small packet filled with bits of charcoal , a deep pot of thin metal , some sheets of newspaper , a book of matches and a wrinkled and many-times folded piece of tin foil with holes in it .
He put the charcoal in the pot , lit the paper with the matches , and carefully stretched the tin foil across the top of the pot .
`` A charcoal pit , man '' , he said , indicating the slightly-smoking makeshift brazier .
`` Fan it '' , he told Cappy , handing him a sheet of newspaper .
`` Yeah , but what're we gonna eat ? ?
Charcoal '' ? ?
`` Fella '' , Ernie waggled a dirty finger at the younger man , `` you try my ever-lovin' patience '' .
He reached once more into the carpet bag and brought up a package of wieners .
`` Hot dogs , man .
Not the greatest , but they stick to your belly insides '' .
He ripped down the cellophane carefully , and laid three dogs on the tin foil .
Almost immediately they began to sizzle .
He looked up and grinned .
`` A Kroger's self-serve '' , he explained .
`` I self-served '' .
When they had licked the last of the wieners' taste from their fingers , they settled back , and Cappy offered Ernie a cigarette .
Nice kid , Ernie thought , too bad .
`` How come you're riding the rods , kids like you '' ? ?
Ernie asked .
Cappy looked down at his wide hands , and did not reply .
But surprisingly , Kitty's face came up and she said , `` My father .
He didn't want us to get married .
So we ran away '' .
`` Why didn't he want you to get hitched '' ? ?
This time even she did not answer .
She looked down at her hands , too .
After a few seconds , she said , `` Dad didn't like Cappy .
It was my fault '' .
Cappy's head came around sharply .
`` Your fault , hell ! !
It was all my fault .
If I'd been careful it never woulda '' -- he stopped abruptly .
Ernie's eyebrows went up .
`` What's the matter '' ? ?
The girl still did not raise her eyes , but she added simply , `` I'm pregnant '' .
Cappy raged at himself .
`` Oh he was stupid , her old man ! !
You never heard nothin' like it : Kitty's gonna go have an abortion , and Kitty's gonna go away to a convent , and Kitty's this and Kitty's that like he was nuts or somethin' , y'know '' ? ?
Ernie nodded .
This was a slightly different matter .
He remembered Midge , and the child .
But that had been a time before all this , a time he didn't think about .
A time before the white lightning and the bumming had turned him inside out .
But these kids weren't like him .
Oh crap ! !
He thought , Pull out of it , old son .
These are just another couple of characters to roll .
What they got , you get .
Now forget all this other .
`` Wanna drink '' ? ?
Ernie offered , taking the pint of sweet lucy from his jacket pocket .
`` Yeah .
Now that you offer '' .
The answer came from the open door of the boxcar .
From the man who had leaped in from the high bank outside , as the train had slowed on the grade .
Ernie stared at the man .
He was big .
Real big , with shoulders out to here , and hair all over him like a grizzly .
Road gang , Ernie thought .
`` You gonna give me a drink , fella '' ? ?
The big man asked again , taking a step into the boxcar .
Ernie hesitated a moment .
This character could break him in half .
`` Sure '' , he said , and lifted the pint to his own lips .
He guzzled down three-quarters of the strong home-blend and proffered the remainder .
The man stalked toward them , his big boots heavy on the wooden flooring .
He took the bottle with undue belligerence , and making sucking noises with his thick lips , drained it completely .
He threw his head back , closed his eyes , and belched ferociously .
He belched again , and opening his eyes , threw the bottle out the open door .
`` Well , now '' , he said , and reached into his pocket .
`` I didn't know I was gonna have company in this car '' .
`` We're going to Philadelphia '' , Kitty said , pulling her skirt down around her legs all the more .
`` No , I don't think so '' , said the big man , and it was the final clincher for Ernie .
He had suspected this guy was trouble , and now he was sure of it .
`` Maybe you and me will , girlie , but these two ain't goin' nowhere '' .
He advanced on them , and abruptly there was a shocked electricity in the car .
Ernie was screaming inside himself : No , damn you , you ain't gonna take my meal ticket away from me ! !
The newcomer stalked toward them , and Kitty shied back , her hand to her mouth .
Her scream split up the silence of the car , accompanied by the rattling of the freight , and then Cappy came off the floor , his legs driving him hard .
The kid hit the bigger man with an audible thwump ! !
And carried him backward in a footballer's tackle .
They went down in a heap and for a long minute there was nothing to see but flailing arms and legs .
The kid showed for an instant , and his arm was cocked back .
The fist went down into the pile of flesh , and Ernie heard the bigger man's deeper voice go , `` Aaawww '' ! !
Then they were tumbling again , and the big man reached into the same pocket he had gone for earlier , and came up with a vicious switchblade .
He held the knife aloft an instant -- an instant enough to press the stud .
The blade came out with a snick ! !
He fisted the knife overhand , and drew back to plunge it into the kid's throat .
Kitty screamed insanely and her face was white .
She grabbed at Feathertop's sleeve and shrieked , `` Help him ! !
Help him ! !
Do something '' ! !
They neither liked nor disliked the Old Man .
To them he could have been the broken bell in the church tower which rang before and after Mass , and at noon , and at six each evening -- its tone , repetitive , monotonous , never breaking the boredom of the streets .
The Old Man was unimportant .
Yet if he were not there , they would have missed him , as they would have missed the sounds of bees buzzing against the screen door in early June ; ;
or the smell of thick tomato paste -- the ripe smell that was both sweet and sour -- rising up from aluminum trays wrapped in fly-dotted cheesecloth .
Or the surging whirling sounds of bats at night , when their black bodies dived into the blackness above and below the amber street lights .
Or the bay of female dogs in heat .
They never called him by name , although he had one .
Filippo Rossi , that's what he was called in the old country ; ;
but here he was just Signore or the Old Man .
But this was not unusual , because youth in these quarters was always pushed at a distance from its elders .
Youth obeyed when commanded .
It went to church on Sunday and one Saturday a month went to confession .
But youth asked nothing of its parents -- not a touch of the hand or a kiss given in passing .
The only thing unusual about the Old Man had long since happened .
But the past was dead here as the present was dead .
Once the Old Man had had a wife .
And once she , too , ignored him .
With a tiny fur-piece wrapped around her shoulders , she wiggled her satin-covered buttocks down the street before him and didn't stop .
In one hand she clutched a hundred dollar bill and in the other a straw suitcase .
The way she strutted down the street , the Old Man would have been blind not to have noticed both .
Without looking at him , without looking at anything except Drexel Street directly in front of her , she climbed up into one of those orange streetcars , rode away in it , and never came back .
`` But she shouldn't have come here in the first place '' , the women had said .
`` No , no .
Not that one .
She thought she was bigger than we are because she came from Torino '' .
`` Eh , Torino ! !
She gave herself fancy airs ! !
Just because she had a part on the stage in the old country , she thought she could carry her head higher than ours '' .
They had slapped their thighs .
`` It's not for making pretty speeches about Dante those actresses get paid so good '' .
`` Henh '' ! !
Calloused fingers , caressed only by the smoothness of polished rosaries , had swayed excitedly beneath puckered chins where tiny black hairs sprouted , never to be tweezed away .
Mauve-colored mouths that had never known anything sweeter than the taste of new wine and the passion of man's tongue had not smiled , but had condemned again and again .
`` Puttana '' ! !
But if the Old Man even thought about his wife now , nobody cared a fig .
It was enough for people to know that at one time he had looked down the street at the fleshy suppleness of a woman he had consumed -- watching her become thinner and thinner in the distance , as thin as the seams on her stockings , and still thinner .
His voice had not commanded her to stop .
It had not questioned why .
The women said they had seen him wave an exhausted farewell ; ;
but he might have been shooing away the fleas that hopped from his yellow dog onto him .
( He was never without that dog .
) And his eyes -- those miniature sundials of variegated yellow -- had not altered their expression or direction .
The Old Man's very soul could have left him and flown down that street , but he wouldn't have had anyone know it .
Perhaps he had known then where that hundred dollar bill had come from and where it was taking his wife .
But when he called for his withered , wrinkled sister Rose to care for him and the children , had he guessed that all he would remember of his woman was the memory of her climbing into that streetcar ? ?
There seemed to be a contemptuous purpose in the way he sat there with his eyes glued to Drexel Street and his back in opposition to the church behind him .
For all he saw or cared to see , this could have been a town in Italy , not the outskirts of Philadelphia .
It could have been Bari or Chieti for the way it smelled .
What did it matter to him that the park at the foot of Ash Road stretched beneath elevated trains that roared from the stucco station into the city's center at half-hour intervals ? ?
Or that the tiny creek spun its silent course toward the Schuylkill ? ?
This place was hatred to him , just as hatred was his only companion in his aloneness .
To him they were one and the same .
Sameness for the Old Man was framed in by a wall of ginkgo trees which divided these quarters from the city .
Sameness lined the streets with two-story houses the color of ash .
It slashed the sloping manure-scented lawns with concrete steps which climbed upward to white wooden porches .
It swayed with the wicker swings and screeched with the rusted hinges of screen doors .
Even the stable-garage , which housed nothing now but the scent of rot , had a lawn before it .
And the coffee shop on Drexel Street , where the men spent their evenings and Sundays playing cards , had a rose hedge beneath its window .
The hedge reeked of coffee dregs thrown against it .
Only one house on the street had no lawn before it .
It squatted low and square upon the sidewalk with a heavy iron grating supporting a glass facade .
That was Bartoli's shop .
Above it , from a second-story showroom , wooden angels surveyed the neighborhood .
Did the Old Man remember them there ? ?
Yet everywhere else sameness was stucco and wood in square blocks -- like fortresses perched against the slant of the hill , rising with the hill to the top where the church was and beyond that to the cemetery .
Only paved alleyways tunneled through the walls of those fortresses into the mysterious core of intimacy behind the houses where backyards owned no fences , where one man's property blended with the next to form courtyards in which no one knew privacy .
Love and hatred and fear were one here , shaded only by fig trees and grape vines .
And the forked tongue of gossip licked its sinister way from back porch to back porch .
The Old Man silently fed upon these streets .
They kept him alive , waiting .
Waiting for what and for whom , only he could tell and would not .
It was as though he had made a pact with the devil himself , but it was not yet time to pay the price .
He was holding out for something .
He was determined to hold out .
The Old Man's son threw himself down , belly first , upon a concrete step , taking in the coolness of it , and dreaming of the day he would be rich .
At fifteen he didn't care that he had no mother , that he couldn't remember her face or her touch ; ;
neither did he care that Aunt Rose provided for him .
He was named Pompeii as a tribute to his heritage , and he couldn't have cared less about that either .
To him life was a restless boredom that began with the rising sun and ended only with sleep .
When he would be a man , he would be a rich man .
He would not be like the `` rich Americans '' who lived in white-columned houses on the other side of the park .
He would not ride the eight-thirty local to the city each morning .
He would not carry a brief case .
Nor would he work at all .
He would square his shoulders and carry a cane before each step .
He would sit inside the coffee shop and pound a gloved fist upon the table and a girl would hear him and come running , bowing with her running , calling out in her bowing , `` At your service '' .
He would order her to bring coffee , and would take from his vest pocket a thin black pipe which he would stuff -- he would not remove his gloves -- and light and smoke .
He could do that when he would be a man .
`` Hey , Laura '' ! !
He called to his sister on the porch above the steps .
She was only ten months older than he .
`` Laura , what would you say if I smoked a pipe '' ? ?
Laura did not answer him .
She leaned unconcerned against the broken porch fence , brushing and drying her wet , gilded hair in the sun .
One lithe leg straddled the railing and swung loosely before the creaking , torn pales .
Her tanned foot , whose arch swept high and white , pointed artfully toward tapering toes -- toes like fingers , whose tips glowed white .
All the while she sat there , her sinewy arms swirled before her chest .
Her face showed no sign of having heard Pompeii .
It was a face that had lost its childlike softness and was beginning to fold within its fragile features a harshness that belied the lyric lines of its contours .
The eyes , blue and always somewhat downcast , possessed a sullen quality .
Even though the boy could not see them , he knew they were clouded by distance .
He was never sure they fully took him in .
Pompeii called again , `` Laura '' ! !
But the only answer that reached him was the screeching of the porch rail from her leg moving against it .
`` She's in a mood '' , he thought `` There's not a month she doesn't get herself in a mood '' .
Well , what did that matter when the sun was shining and there were dreams to dream about ? ?
And as for his pipe , if he wanted to smoke one , nobody would stop him .
Not even Laura .
Suddenly he was interrupted in his daydreaming by a warm wetness lapping against his chin , and his eyes opened wide and long at the sight of a goat's claret tongue , feasting against the salt taste of him .
Above the tongue , an aged yellow eye , sallow and time-cast , encrusted within a sphere of marbleized pink skin , stared unfalteringly at him .
`` Christ sake , goat , git '' ! !
But the goat would not .
`` You're boiling milk , ain't you '' ? ?
Soothing it with his hand , knowing the whiskered jowls and the swollen smoothness of teats that wrinkled expectantly to his touch .
Pompeii rolled over .
His head undulated gradually , covering space , to come straining beneath the taut belly within the warmth of those teats .
With his mouth opened wide , he squirted the warm white milk against the roof of his mouth and his tongue savored the light , earthy taste of it .
The boy's fingers and mouth operated with the skilled unity of a bagpipe player , pressing and pulling , delighting in what he did .
Above him slid the evasive shadow of a storm cloud .
Its form was a heavy figure in a fluttering soutane .
But the boy could see only the goat's belly .
The Old Man near the corner let the shadow pass over him , sensing something portentous in it .
He knew it was there , knew also what it was about , but he wouldn't raise a finger except to smooth his yellow dog's back .
There would be time enough , perhaps the Old Man reassured himself , to pay the devil his due .
Time enough to give up his soul .
In the meantime , six sandals , stained an ocher , the same color as Pompeii's shaved hair , edged up close to him .
The clapping they made on the concrete interrupted him in the ecstatic pleasure he knew , so that he quickly released his hold on the goat and pretended to be examining its haunches for ticks .
He knew at a glance that the biggest sandals belonged to Niobe , the neatest ones to Concetta , and the laced ones to Romeo , Concetta's idiot brother .
Pompeii expected Romeo's small body to sink closer and closer to the ground .
He expected Concetta's thin hand to reach down to grasp the boy , and her shrill , impetuous voice to sound against the rotundity of his disfigured flesh that was never sure of hearing anything .
People came in and out all evening to see the baby and hold it .
The room filled with smoke , and Maggie's head throbbed with excitement and fatigue , but Stuart had such a happy , earnest look of proud possession on his face that Maggie couldn't bear to do anything to quench it .
Little Anne rapidly outdistanced her mother in recovery .
In two months she became a fat highly social baby , with a fuzz of flaxen hair all over her head .
She stopped flying into rages and started digesting her food ; ;
she developed a peaches and cream complexion and a sunny disposition , and she asked for nothing more of life than that she be kept dry and comfortable and fed huge amounts of food at stated intervals and be carried to where she could watch activity going on around her .
She was so heavy that Maggie's arms shook from lifting her and taking care of her .
Maggie couldn't seem to get her strength back or catch up with herself with all she had to do : there was the big basket of clothes to be coaxed through the rackety old washer and lugged out and lugged back ; ;
there was the daily round of household chores in which Maggie insisted on participating .
Worry had a great deal to do with it ; ;
Stuart had been laid off at the produce company and had to go back to sitting in his father's office , taking what salary his father could hand out to him .
Mr. Clifton would have preferred death and bankruptcy to having his son stay with his wife's people without contributing to his and his family's upkeep , and besides that there were the things that had to be bought for the baby , milk and orange juice and vitamins and soap , just plain soap .
Maggie and Stuart pored over figures every night , trying to find how they could squeeze out a few pennies more .
