`` We're getting Friend some runs for a change , and he has been pitching good '' , Murtaugh said .
`` Virdon has been blasting the ball .
No plunkers for him '' .
Six Bucs over .
The Pirates jumped off to an 11-3 start by May 1 last year , when the Redbirds as well as the Dodgers held them even over the season .
On last May 1 , the Cardinals stood at 7-6 , ending a two-season fall-off on that milestone .
In 1958 , the Birds were 3-10 on May 1 .
A year later they were 4-13 .
Since 1949 , the St. Louis club has been below on May 1 just four times .
The '49 team was off to a so-so 5-5 beginning , then fell as low as 12-17 on May 23 before finishing with 96 victories .
The '52 Cards were 6-7 on May 1 but ended with 88 triumphs , the club's top since 1949 .
Then last season the Birds tumbled as low as 11-18 on May 19 before recovering to make a race of it and total 86 victories .
Since 1949 , the only National League club that got off to a hot start and made a runaway of the race was the '55 Dodger team .
Those Dodgers won their first 10 games and owned a 21-2 mark and a nine-game lead by May 8 .
The club that overcame the worst start in a comparable period to win the pennant was New York's '51 Giants , who dropped 11 of their first 13 .
They honored the battling Billikens last night .
Speakers at a Tipoff Club dinner dealt lavish praise to a group of St. Louis University players who , in the words of Coach John Benington , `` had more confidence in themselves than I did '' .
The most valuable player award was split three ways , among Glen Mankowski , Gordon Hartweger and Tom Kieffer .
In addition , a special award was given to Bob ( Bevo ) Nordmann , the 6-foot-10 center who missed much of the season because of a knee injury .
`` You often hear people talk about team spirit and that sort of thing '' , Benington said in a conversation after the ceremonies , `` but what this team had was a little different .
The boys had a tremendous respect for each other's ability .
They knew what they could do and it was often a little more than I thought they could do .
`` Several times I found the players pepping me up , where it usually is the coach who is supposed to deliver the fight talk .
We'd be losing at halftime to a good team and Hartweger would say , ' Don't worry , Coach -- we'll get 'em all right ' '' .
The trio who shared the most-valuable honors were introduced by Bob Broeg , sports editor of the Post-Dispatch .
Kieffer , the only junior in the group , was commended for his ability to hit in the clutch , as well as his all-round excellent play .
Mankowski , the ball-hawking defensive expert , was cited for his performance against Bradley in St. Louis U.'s nationally televised victory .
Benington said , `` I've never seen a player have a game as great as Mankowski did against Bradley that day '' .
Benington recalled that he once told Hartweger that he doubted Gordon would ever play much for him because he seemed to be lacking in all of the accepted basketball skills .
After the coach listed all the boy's faults , Hartweger said , `` Coach before I leave here , you'll get to like me '' .
Mrs. Benington admired Gordon's spirit and did what she could to persuade her husband that the boy might help the team .
As Hartweger accepted his silver bowl , he said , `` I want to thank coach's wife for talking him into letting me play '' .
Bob Burnes , sports editor of the Globe-Democrat , presented Bob Nordmann with his award .
Bevo was congratulated for his efforts to stay in shape so that he could help the team if his knee healed in time .
Within a week after the injury , suffered in St. Louis's victory in the final game of the Kentucky tournament , Nordmann was sitting on the Bill's bench doing what he could to help Benington .
On the clock given him was the inscription , `` For Outstanding Contribution to Billiken Basketball , 1960-61 '' .
Other lettermen from the team that compiled a 21-9 record and finished as runner-up in the National Invitation Tournament were : Art Hambric , Donnell Reid , Bill Nordmann , Dave Harris , Dave Luechtefeld and George Latinovich .
`` This team set a precedent that could be valuable in the future '' , Benington pointed out .
`` By winning against Bradley , Kentucky and Notre Dame on those teams' home courts , they showed that the home court advantage can be overcome anywhere and that it doesn't take a super team to do it '' .
St. Louis University found a way to win a baseball game .
Larry Scherer last night pitched a no-hit game , said to be the first in Billiken baseball history , as the Blue and White beat Southeast Missouri State College , 5-1 , at Crystal City .
The victory was the first of the season for the Billikens after nine defeats and a tie .
The tie was against Southeast Missouri last Friday .
Scherer also had a big night at bat with four hits in five trips including a double , Len Boehmer also was 4-for-5 with two doubles and Dave Ritchie had a home run and a triple .
St. Louis U. was to be in action again today with a game scheduled at 4 against Washington University at Ligget Field .
The game opened a busy week for Washington .
The Bears are set to play at Harris Teachers College at 3:30 tomorrow and have a doubleheader at Quincy , Ill. , Saturday .
Happy hitting
If it's true that contented cows give more milk , why shouldn't happy ball players produce more base hits ? ?
The two top talents of the time , Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays , have hit the ball harder and more successfully so far this early season than at any period in careers which , to be frank about it , never have quite reached expectations .
And that's meant as a boost , not a knock .
Mays and Mantle , both 10-year men at 30 , have so much ability that , baseball men agree , they've never hit the heights .
Their heights , that is .
Mantle , the bull-necked blond switch-hitter , had one sensational triple-crown season , 1959 , when he batted and also led the American League in home runs , 52 , and rbi's , 130 .
Like the Yankees' slugger , Mays , the terror of the Giants , has had seasons that would be considered the ultimate by most players , but not by -- or for -- Willie .
His best years were 1954 when he hit with 41 homers and '55 when he belted 51 home runs , drove in 127 and stole 24 bases .
Now , apparently happier under new managers , Mays and Mantle , the perfect players , are behaving as though they're going to pass those previous peaks .
Labor relations
Yes , we know , they're professionals , men paid to play , and they shouldn't care how they're handled , just as long as their names are spelled correctly on the first and fifteenth of each month .
The truth is , though , that men react differently to different treatment .
For that matter , Stan Musial is rare , possessing the disposition that enabled him to put out the same for seven managers , reserving his opinions , but not his effort .
Mantle , it's apparent , resented Casey Stengel's attempts to push and prod him into the perfection the veteran manager saw as a thrilling possibility .
The old man was almost too possessive .
Stengel inherited DiMaggio , Rizzuto , but he brought up Mantle from Class C to the majors , from Joplin to New York .
With the speed and power of the body beautiful he saw before him , Ol' Case wanted No. 7 to be not only the best homerun hitter , but also the best bunter , base-runner and outfielder .
Stengel probably preached too much in the early days when the kid wanted to pop his bubble gum and sow his oats .
Inheriting a more mature Mantle , who now has seen the sights on and off Broadway , Ralph Houk quietly bestowed , no pun intended , the mantle of authority on Mickey .
The Major decided that , rather than be led , the slugger could lead .
And what leadership a proud Mantle has given so far .
The opinion continues here that with a 162-game schedule , pitching spread thin through a 10-team league and a most inviting target in Los Angeles' Wrigley Field Jr. , Mantle just might break the most glamorous record on the books , Babe Ruth's 60 homers of 1927 .
Four for Alvin
Mays' day came a day earlier for Willie than for the kids and Commies this year .
Willie's wonderful walloping Sunday -- four home runs -- served merely to emphasize how happy he is to be playing for Alvin Dark .
Next to Leo Durocher , Dark taught Mays the most when he was a grass-green rookie rushed up to the Polo Grounds 10 years ago this month , to help the Giants win a dramatic pennant .
Romantic news concerns Mrs. Joan Monroe Armour and F. Lee H. Wendell , who are to be married at 4:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Lake Forest home of her brother , J. Hampton Monroe , and Mrs. Monroe .
Only the families and a dozen close friends will be present .
The bride's brother , Walter D. Monroe Jr. , will give her in marriage .
In the small group will be the junior and senior Mrs. Walter Monroe ; ;
the bridegroom's parents , the Barrett Wendells , who are returning from a winter holiday in Sarasota , Fla. , for the occasion ; ;
and his brother , Mr. Wendell Jr. , and his wife , who will arrive from Boston .
Mr. Wendell Jr. will be best man .
Also present will be the bride's children , Joan , 13 , and Kirkland , 11 .
Their father is Charles B. Armour .
The bridegroom's children were here for the Christmas holidays and can't return .
Young Peter Wendell , a student at the Westminster school , has measles , and his sister , Mrs. Andrew Thomas , and her husband , who live in Missoula , Mont. , have a new baby .
Their mother is Mrs. Camilla Alsop Wendell .
Mr. Wendell and his bride will live in his Lake Forest house .
They will take a wedding trip later .
' back with the Met
`` We are back with the ' Met ' again now that the ' Met ' is back in Chicago '' , bulletins Mrs. Frank S. Sims , president of the women's board of the University of Chicago Cancer Research Foundation .
The New York Metropolitan Opera Company will be here in May , and the board will sponsor the Saturday night , May 13 , performance of `` Turandot '' as a benefit .
Birgit Nilsson will be starred .
`` Housed in the new McCormick Place theater , this should prove to be an exciting evening '' , adds Mrs. Sims .
The board's last money raising event was a performance by Harry Belafonte -- `` quite off-beat for this group '' , decided some of the members .
Mrs. Henry T. Sulcer of Winnetka , a new board member , will be chairman of publicity for the benefit .
Her husband recently was appointed vice president of the university , bringing them back here from the east .
Parichy-Hamm
Because of the recent death of the bride's father , Frederick B. Hamm , the marriage of Miss Terry Hamm to John Bruce Parichy will be a small one at noon tomorrow in St. Bernadine's church , Forest Park .
A small reception will follow in the Oak Park Arms hotel .
Mrs. Hamm will not come from Vero Beach , Fla. , for the wedding .
However , Mr. Parichy and his bride will go to Vero Beach on their wedding trip , and will stay in the John G. Beadles' beach house .
The Beadles formerly lived in Lake Forest .
Harvey B. Stevens of Kenilworth will give his niece in marriage .
Mr. and Mrs. Stevens and the bride's other uncles and aunts , the Rush C. Butlers , the Homer E. Robertsons , and the David Q. Porters , will give the bridal dinner tonight in the Stevenses' home .
Here and there
The Chicago Press club will fete George E. Barnes , president of the United States Lawn Tennis association , at a cocktail party and buffet supper beginning at 5:30 p.m. tomorrow .
Later , a bus will carry members to the Chicago Stadium to see Jack Kramer's professional tennis matches at 8 p.m. .
With loud huzzahs for the artistic success of the Presbyterian-St. Luke's Fashion show still ringing in her ears , its director , Helen Tieken Geraghty ( Mrs. Maurice P. Geraghty ) is taking off tomorrow on a 56 day world trip which should earn her even greater acclaim as director of entertainment for next summer's International Trade fair .
Armed with letters from embassies to ministers of countries , especially those in the near and far east , Mrs. Geraghty `` will beat the bushes for oriental talent '' .
`` We ( the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry ) expect to establish closer relations with nations and their cultural activities , and it will be easy as a member of the fair staff to bring in acts '' , explains Mrs. Geraghty .
`` For instance , Djakarta , Indonesia , has three groups of dancers interested in coming here .
I'm even going to try to get the whirling dervishes of Damascus '' ! !
The last obstacle in Mrs. Geraghty's globe-girdling trip was smoothed out when a representative of Syria called upon her to explain that his brother would meet her at the border of that country -- so newly separated from Egypt and the United Arab Republic that she hadn't been able to obtain a visa .
First , Honolulu
Honolulu will be Mrs. Geraghty's first stop .
Then Japan , Hong Kong , Manila , India , Pakistan , Damascus , Beirut , and to Rome , London , and Paris `` to look over wonderful talent '' .
Dec. 22 is the deadline for Mrs. Geraghty's return ; ;
the Geraghtys' youngest daughter , Molly , bows in the Passavant Debutante Cotillion the next night .
Molly already has her cotillion gown , and it's fitted , says her mother .
Also , invitations have been addressed to Molly's debut tea the afternoon of Dec. 29 in the Arts club .
It won't be a `` tea '' , however , but more of an international folk song festival , with singers from Chicago's foreign groups to sing Christmas songs from around the world .
The international theme will be continued with the Balkan strings playing for a dinner the Byron Harveys will give in the Racquet club after the tea .
Miss Abra Prentice's debut supper dance in the Casino will wind up the day .
Burke-Rostagno
The Richard S. Burkes' home in Wayne may be the setting for the wedding reception for their daughter , Helen Lambert , and the young Italian she met last year while studying in Florence during her junior year at Smith college .
He is Aldo Rostagno , son of the Guglielmo Rostagnos of Florence whom the Burkes met last year in Europe .
The Burkes , who now live in Kankakee , are telling friends of the engagement .
Miss Burke , a graduate of Miss Hall's school , stayed on in Florence as a career girl .
Her fiance , who is with a publishing firm , translates many books from English into Italian .
He will be coming here on business in December , when the wedding is to take place in Wayne .
Miss Burke will arrive in December also .
Here and there
A farewell supper Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Sethness Jr. planned Sunday for Italian Consul General and Mrs. Giacomo Profili has been canceled because Mr. Sethness is in Illinois Masonic hospital for surgery .
Mrs. William Odell , Mrs. Clinton B. King , John Holabird Jr. , Norman Boothby , and Actress Maureen O'Sullivan will judge the costumes in the grand march at the Affaire Old Towne Bal Masque tomorrow in the Germania club .
The party is to raise money for the Old Town Art center and to plant more crabapple trees along the streets of Old Town .
Lyon around : Columnist Walter Winchell , well and rat-a-tat-tatty again , wheeled thru town between trains yesterday en route to his Phoenix , Ariz. , rancho , portable typewriter in hand .
If W. W.'s retiring soon , as hinted , he ain't talking -- yet .
Pretty Sunny Ainsworth , the ex-Mrs. Tommy Manville and the ex-Mrs. Bud Arvey , joined Playboy-Show-Biz Illustrated , as a promotional copy writer .
She's a whiz .
You can get into an argument about fallout shelters at the drop of a beer stein in clubs and pubs these nights .
Everybody has a different idea on the ethics and morals of driving away neighbors , when and if .
Comic Gary Morton signed to play the Living Room here Dec. 18 , because that's the only time his heart , Lucille Ball , can come along .
And watch for a headline from this pair any time now .
The Living Room has another scoop : Jane Russell will make one of her rare night club singing appearances there , opening Jan. 22 .
La Russell's run in `` Skylark '' , debuting next week at Drury Lane , already is a sellout .
Johnny Ray , at the same L. R. , has something to cry about .
He's been warbling in severe pain ; ;
a medico's injection inflamed a nerve , and Johnny can barely walk .
Charley Simonelli , top Universal-International film studio exec , makes an honest man out of this column .
As we bulletin'd way back , he'll wed pretty Rosemary Strafaci , of the Golf Mag staff , in N. Y. C. today .
Handsome bachelor Charley was a favorite date of many of Hollywood's glamor gals for years .
George Simon , exec director of Danny Thomas A. L. S. A. C. ( Aiding Leukemia Stricken American Children ) fund raising group , filled me in on the low-down phonies who are using phones to solicit funds for Danny's St. Jude hospital in Memphis .
There is no such thing as an `` emergency telephone building fund drive '' .
The only current event they're staging is the big show at the Stadium Nov. 25 , when Danny will entertain thousands of underprivileged kids .
You can mail contribs to Danny Thomas , Post Office Box 7599 , Chicago .
So , if anybody solicits by phone , make sure you mail the dough to the above .
Olivia De Havilland signed to do a Broadway play for Garson Kanin this season , `` A Gift of Time '' .
She'll move to Gotham after years in Paris .
Gorgeous Doris Day and her producer-hubby , Marty Melcher , drive in today from a motor tour thru New England .
D. D. will pop up with U-I Chief Milt Rackmil at the Carnegie theater tomorrow to toast 300 movie exhibitors .
It'll be an all day affair with screenings of Doris' new one , `` Lover Come Back '' , and `` Flower Drum Song '' .
Whee the People : Lovely Thrush Annamorena gave up a promising show biz career to apply glamor touches to her hubby , Ray Lenobel's fur firm here .
Typical touch : She sold a $10,000 morning light mink to Sportsman Freddie Wacker for his frau , Jana Mason , also an ex-singer .
In honor of the Wackers' new baby .
Fur goodness sake ! !
Emcee Jack Herbert insists Dick Nixon's campaign slogan for governor of California is , `` Knight Must Fall '' ! !
Give generously when you buy candy today for the Brain Research Foundation .
It's one of our town's worthiest charities .
Best Bet for Tonight : That darlin' dazzler from Paree , Genevieve , opening in the Empire room .
Dave Trager , who is quite a showman and boss of Chicago's new pro basketball Packers , is debuting a new International club , for the exclusive use of season ticket holders , in the Stock Yards Inn .
Jump off is tomorrow night when the Packs meet St. Louis in their season home opener .
Nobody's mentioned it , but when ol' Casey Stengel takes over as boss of the New York Mets , he'll be the only baseballight ever to wear the uniform of all New York area clubs , past and present : Yankees , Dodgers , Giants , and now the Mets .
And Bernie Kriss calls the bayonet clashes at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate , `` The Battle of the Sentry '' ! !
The jotted Lyon : This mad world dept. : Khrush and the Kremlin crowd are confident all right .
They're contaminating the earth's atmosphere including their own via mighty megaton bombs but their own peasants still don't know about it ! !
More : On the free world side .
Albert John Luthuli , awarded a Nobel prize for his South African integration struggles , has to get permission to fly to collect his honor .
Hmpf But on to the frothier side Johnny Weissmuller , the only real Tarzan , telephoned Maureen O'Sullivan , his first `` Jane '' ( now at Drury Lane ) and muttered , `` Me Tarzan , this Jane '' ? ?
Snapped Maureen , `` Me Jane '' ! !
Actually Johnny is a glib , garrulous guy , with a rare sense of humor .
Everywhere he went in town , people sidled up , gave him the guttural bit or broke into a frightening Tarzan yodel .
He kids his Tarzan roles more than anyone .
`` La Dolce Vita '' , the dynamite Italian flicker , opens at popular prices at the Loop theater Nov. 2 .
My idea of masterful movie making .
Bill Veeck's health is back to the dynamo stage , but his medics insist he rest for several more months before getting back into the baseball swim .
William keeps up with our town's doings daily , via the Tribune , and he tells me he never misses the Ticker .
That's our boy Bill .
Jean Fardulli's Blue Angel is the first top local club to import that crazy new dance , the Twist .
They'll start lessons , too , pronto .
A cheer here for Francis Lorenz , state treasurer , who will meet with the probate advisory board of the Chicago Bar association , for suggestions on how to handle the opening of safety deposit boxes after somebody dies .
After being closed for seven months , the Garden of the Gods Club will have its gala summer opening Saturday , June 3 .
Music for dancing will be furnished by Allen Uhles and his orchestra , who will play each Saturday during June .
Members and guests will be in for an added surprise with the new wing containing 40 rooms and suites , each with its own private patio .
Gene Marshall , genial manager of the club , has announced that the Garden of the Gods will open to members Thursday , June 1 .
Beginning July 4 , there will be an orchestra playing nightly except Sunday and Monday for the summer season .
Mrs. J. Edward Hackstaff and Mrs. Paul Luette are planning a luncheon next week in honor of Mrs. J. Clinton Bowman , who celebrates her birthday on Tuesday .
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Chase announce the birth of a daughter , Sheila , on Wednesday in Mercy Hospital .
Grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Chase and Mr. and Mrs. Guy Mullenax of Kittredge .
Mrs. Chase is the former Miss Mary Mullenax .
Back to w. coast
Mrs. McIntosh Buell will leave Sunday to return to her home in Santa Barbara , Calif. , after spending a week in her Polo Grounds home .
Mrs. John C. Vroman Jr. of Manzanola is spending several days in her Sherman Plaza apartment .
Mr. and Mrs. Merrill Shoup have returned to their home in Colorado Springs after spending a few days at the Brown Palace Hotel .
Brig. Gen. and Mrs. Robert F. McDermott will entertain at a black tie dinner Wednesday , May 3 , in the Officers' Club at the Air Force Academy .
Cocktail party
Mr. and Mrs. Piero De Luise will honor Italian Consul and Mrs. Emilio Bassi at a cocktail party Tuesday , May 2 , from 6 to 8 p.m. in their home .
The Bassis are leaving soon for their new post .
There will be a stag dinner Friday evening at the Denver Country Club which will precede the opening of the 1961 golf season .
Cocktails will be served from 6 to 7 p.m. , with dinner at 7 and entertainment in the main dining room immediately following .
Miss Betsy Parker was one of the speakers on the panel of the Eastern Women's Liberal Arts College panel on Wednesday evening in the Security Life Bldg. .
Guests were juniors in the public high schools .
Fashion show
The committee for the annual Central City fashion show has been announced by Mrs. D. W. Moore , chairman .
The event , staged yearly by Neusteters , will be held in the Opera House Wednesday , Aug. 16 .
It will be preceded by luncheon in the Teter House .
Mrs. Roger Mead is head of the luncheon table decorations .
Mrs. Stanley Wright is ticket chairman and Mrs. Theodore Pate is in charge of publicity .
Members of the committee include Mrs. Milton Bernet , Mrs. J. Clinton Bowman , Mrs. Rollie W. Bradford , Mrs. Samuel Butler Jr. , Mrs. Donald Carr Campbell , Mrs. Douglas Carruthers , Mrs. John C. Davis 3 , , Mrs. Cris Dobbins , Mrs. William E. Glass , Mrs. Alfred Hicks 2 , , Mrs. Donald Magarrell , Mrs. Willett Moore , Mrs. Myron Neusteter , Mrs. Richard Gibson Smith , Mrs. James S. Sudier 2 , and Mrs. Thomas Welborn .
The first committee meeting will be held on May 19 .
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Kelsey of Washington , D.C. , announce the birth of a daughter , Kira Ann Kelsey , on Monday in Washington , D.C. .
Grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. R.L. Rickenbaugh and Mr. and Mrs. E.O. Kelsey of Scarsdale , N.Y. .
Mrs. Kelsey is the former Miss Ann Rickenbaugh .
A cheery smile , a compassionate interest in others and a practical down-to-earth approach .
Those qualities make Esther Marr a popular asset at the Salvation Army's Social Center at 1200 Larimer St. .
The pert , gray-haired woman who came to Denver three years ago from Buffalo , N.Y. , is a `` civilian '' with the Army .
Her position covers a number of daily tasks common to any social director .
The job also covers a number of other items .
`` Mom '' Marr , as the more than 80 men at the center call her , is the link that helps to bridge the gulf between alcoholics and the outside world and between parolees and society .
Her day starts early , but no matter how many pressing letters there are to be written ( and during May , which is National Salvation Army Week , there are plenty ) , schedules to be made or problems to be solved , Mrs. Marr's office is always open and the welcome mat is out .
Mrs. Marr is the first contact a Skid Row figure talks to after he decides he wants to pick himself up .
She sees that there is a cup of steaming hot coffee awaiting him and the two chat informally as she presents the rules of the center and explains procedures .
`` Usually at this point a man is withdrawn from society and one of my jobs is to see that he relearns to mingle with his fellow men '' , Mrs. Marr explained .
The Denverite has worked out an entire program to achieve this using the facilities of the center .
`` And I bum tickets to everything I can '' , she said .
`` I've become the greatest beggar in the world '' .
In addition to the tickets to the movies , sporting events and concerts , Mrs. Marr lines up candy and cookies because alcoholics require a lot of sweets to replace the sugar in their system .
Mrs. Marr also has a number of parolees to `` mother '' , watching to see that they do not break their parole and that they also learn to readjust to society .
By mid-June , millions of Americans will take to the road on vacation trips up and down and back and forth across this vast and lovely land .
In another four weeks , with schools closed across the nation , the great all-American summer safari will be under way .
By July 1 , six weeks from now , motel-keepers all over the nation will , by 6 p.m. , be switching on that bleak -- to motorists -- sign , `` No Vacancy '' .
No matter how many Americans go abroad in summer , probably a hundred times as many gas up the family car , throw suitcases , kids and comic books in the back seat , and head for home .
And where is `` home '' , that magic place of the heart ? ?
Ah , that is simple .
Home is where a man was born , reared , went to school and , most particularly , where grandma is .
That is where we turn in the good old summertime .
The land lies ready for the coming onslaught .
My husband and I , a month ahead of the rush , have just finished a 7-day motor journey of 2809 miles from Tucson , Ariz. , to New York City :
set for influx
I can testify that motels , service and comfort stations ( they go together like Scots and heather ) , dog wagons , roadside restaurants , souvenir stands and snake farms are braced and waiting .
I hope it can be said without boasting that no other nation offers its vacationing motorists such variety and beauty of scene , such an excellent network of roads on which to enjoy it and such decent , far-flung over-night accommodations .
Maybe motel-keeping isn't the nation's biggest industry , but it certainly looks that way from the highway .
There are motels for all purposes and all tastes .
There are even motels for local weather peculiarities in Shamrock , Tex. , as I discovered .
There the Royal Motel advertises `` all facilities , vented heat , air conditioned , carpeted , free TV , storm cellar '' .
Many with pools
Innumerable motels from Tucson to New York boast swimming pools ( `` swim at your own risk '' is the hospitable sign poised at the brink of most pools ) .
Some even boast two pools , one for adults and one for children .
But the Royal Motel in Shamrock was the only one that offered the comfort and security of a storm cellar .
Motorists like myself who can remember the old `` tourists accommodated '' signs on farm houses and village homes before World War 2 , can only marvel at the great size and the luxury of the relatively new and fast-grossing motel business .
All for $14 ! !
At the Boxwood Motel in Winchester , Va. , we accidentally drew the honeymoon suite , an elegant affair with wall-to-wall carpeting , gold and white furniture , pink satin brocade chairs , 24-inch TV and a pink tile bath with masses of pink towels .
All for $14 .
That made up for the `` best '' motel in Norman , Okla. , where the proprietor knocked $2 off the $8.50 tab when we found ants in the pressed-paper furniture .
Oxnard , Calif. , will be the home of the Rev. Robert D. Howard and his bride , the former Miss Judith Ellen Gay , who were married Saturday at the Munger Place Methodist Church .
Parents of the bride are Mr. and Mrs. Ferris M. Gay , 7034 Coronado .
The bridegroom is the son of Mrs. James Baines of Los Angeles , Calif. , and Carl E. Howard of Santa Monica , Calif. .
He is a graduate of UCLA and Perkins School of Theology , Aj .
Dr. W. B. I. Martin officiated , and the bride was given in marriage by her father .
Honor attendants for the couple were Miss Sandra Branum and Warren V. McRoberts .
The couple will honeymoon in Sequoia National Park , Calif. .
Miss Joan Frances Baker , a graduate of SMU , was married Saturday to Elvis Leonard Mason , an honor graduate of Lamar State College of Technology , in the chapel of the First Presbyterian Church of Houston .
The bride , daughter of Rhodes Semmes Baker Jr. of Houston and the late Mrs. Baker , was president of Kappa Kappa Gamma and a member of Mortar Board at Aj .
Her husband , who is the son of Alton John Mason of Shreveport , La. , and the late Mrs. Henry Cater Parmer , was president of Alpha Tau Omega and a member of Delta Sigma Pi at Lamar Tech , and did graduate work at Rhodes University in Grahamstown , South Africa , on a Rotary Fellowship .
The Rev. Richard Freeman of Texas City officiated and Charles Pabor and Mrs. Marvin Hand presented music .
The bride was given in marriage by her father .
She wore a court-length gown of organdy designed with bateau neckline and princesse skirt accented by lace appliques .
Her veil was caught to a crown , and she carried gardenias and stephanotis .
Miss Mary Ross of Baird was maid of honor , and bridesmaids were Miss Pat Dawson of Austin , Mrs. Howard M. Dean of Hinsdale , Ill. , and Mrs. James A. Reeder of Shreveport , La. .
Cecil Mason of Hartford , Conn. , was best man for his brother , and groomsmen were Rhodes S. Baker 3 , of Houston , Dr. James Carter of Houston and Conrad McEachern of New Orleans , La. .
Lee Jackson and Ken Smith , both of Houston , and Alfred Neumann of Beaumont seated guests .
After a reception at The Mayfair , the newlyweds left for a wedding trip to New Orleans , La. .
They will live in Corpus Christi .
Miss Shirley Joan Meredith , a former student of North Texas State University , was married Saturday to Larry W. Mills , who has attended Arlington State College .
They will live at 2705 Fitzhugh after a wedding trip to Corpus Christi .
Parents of the couple are Ray Meredith of Denton and the late Mrs. Meredith and Mrs. Hardy P. Mills of Floresville and the late Mr. Mills .
The Rev. Melvin Carter officiated at the ceremony in Slaughter Chapel of the First Baptist Church .
Dan Beam presented music and the bride was given in marriage by her father .
She wore a gown of satin designed along princesse lines and featuring a flared skirt and lace jacket with bateau neckline .
Her veil was caught to a pearl headdress , and she carried stephanotis and orchids .
Miss Glenda Kay Meredith of Denton was her sister's maid of honor , and Vernon Lewelleyn of San Angelo was best man .
Robert Lovelace and Cedric Burgher Jr. seated guests .
A reception was held at the church .
The First Christian Church of Pampa was the setting for the wedding last Sunday of Miss Marcile Marie Glison and Thomas Earl Loving Jr. , who will live at 8861 Gaston after a wedding trip to New Orleans , La.
The bride , daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Ervin Glison of Pampa , has attended Texas Woman's University and will continue her studies at Aj .
`` A Night in New Orleans '' is the gayety planned by members of the Thrift Shop Committee for May 6 at Philmont Country Club .
The women have a reputation for giving parties that are different and are fun and this year's promises to follow in this fine tradition .
Mrs. H. J. Grinsfelder is chairman .
The Louisiana city is known , of course , for its fine food , good music and its colorful hospitality `` and , when guests arrive at Philmont that night '' , says Mrs. Grinsfelder , `` that is exactly what we expect to offer them .
We've been working for weeks .
The prospects look great .
