It was full-of-the-moon ( or a little past ) , and nearly light as day .
They all sat around and drank ice water , and the men smoked , and everybody had a good time .
Once in a while they said what a shame it was , with Granny dying , but they all agreed she wouldn't have wanted it any other way .
That night the older men got to talking about going possum-hunting on a moonlight night .
Bobby Joe and two or three of the other boys declared they had never been possum-hunting , and Uncle Bill Farnworth ( from Mama Albright's side of the family ) said he would just get up from there and take them , right then .
After they had left , some of the people moved around , to find more comfortable places to sit .
There were not many chairs , so that some preferred to sit on the edge of the porch , resting their feet on the ground , and others liked to sit where they could lean back against the wall .
Howard , who had been sitting against the wall , said he needed more fresh air , and took the spot on the edge of the porch where Bobby Joe had been sitting .
`` You'll be a darn sight more comfortable there , Howard '' , Ernest said , laughing , and they all laughed .
Linda Kay felt that she was not exactly more comfortable .
Bobby Joe had been sitting close to her , touching her actually , and holding her hand from time to time , but it seemed at once that Howard sat much closer .
Perhaps it was just that he had so much more flesh , so that more of it seemed to come in contact with hers ; ;
but she had never been so aware of anyone's flesh before .
Still she was not sorry he sat by her , but in fact was flattered .
He had become the center of the company , such stories he had to tell .
He had sold oil stock to Bob Hope and Bing Crosby in person ; ;
he had helped fight an oil-well fire that raged six days and nights .
`` But tell me , doctor , where do you plan to conduct the hatching '' ? ?
Alex asked .
`` That will have to be in the hotel '' , the doctor retorted , confirming Alex's anticipations .
`` What I want you to do is to go to the market with me early tomorrow morning and help smuggle the hen back into the hotel '' .
The doctor paid the bill and they repaired to the hotel , room number nine , to initiate Alex further into these undertakings .
The doctor opened the smallest of his cases , an unimposing straw bag , and exposed the contents for Alex's inspection .
Inside , carefully packed in straw , were six eggs , but the eye of a poultry psychologist was required to detect what scientifically valuable specimentalia lay inside ; ;
to Alex they were merely six not unusual hens' eggs .
There was little enough time to contemplate them , however ; ;
in an instant the doctor was stalking across the room with an antique ledger in his hands , thoroughly eared and big as a table top .
He placed it on Alex's lap .
`` This is my hen ledger '' , he informed him in an absorbed way .
`` It's been going since 1908 when I was a junior in college .
That first entry there is the Vermont Flumenophobe , the earliest and one of the most successful of my eighty-three varieties -- great big scapulars and hardly any primaries at all .
Couldn't take them near a river , though , or they'd squawk like a turkey cock the day before Thanksgiving '' .
The ledger was full of most precise information : date of laying , length of incubation period , number of chick reaching the first week , second week , fifth week , weight of hen , size of rooster's wattles and so on , all scrawled out in a hand that looked more Chinese than English , the most jagged and sprawling Alex had ever seen .
Below these particulars was a series of alpha-beta-gammas connected by arrows and crosses which denoted the lineage of the breed .
Alex's instruction was rapid , for the doctor had to go off to the Rue Ecole De Medecine to hear more speeches with only time for one sip of wine to sustain him through them all .
But after the doctor's return that night Alex could see , from the high window in his own room , the now familiar figure crouched on a truly impressive heap of towels , apparently giving its egg-hatching powers one final chance before it was replaced in its office by a sure-enough hen .
A knocking at Alex's door roused him at six o'clock the following morning .
It was the doctor , dressed and ready for the expedition to the market , and Alex was obliged to prepare himself in haste .
The doctor stood about , waiting for Alex to dress , with a show of impatience , and soon they were moving , as quietly as could be , through the still-dark hallways , past the bedroom of the patronne , and so into the street .
The market was not far and , once there , the doctor's sense of immediacy left him and he fell into a state of harmony with the birds around him .
He stroked the hens and they responded with delighted clucks , he gobbled with the turkeys and they at once were all attention , he quacked with the ducks , and cackled with a pair of exceedingly flattered geese .
The dawn progressed and it seemed that the doctor would never be done with his ministrations when quite abruptly something broke his revery .
It was a fine broody hen , white , with a maternal eye and a striking abundance of feathers in the under region of the abdomen .
The doctor , with the air of a man whose professional interests have found scope , drew Alex's attention to those excellences which might otherwise have escaped him : the fine color in comb and wattles , the length and quality of neck and saddle hackles , the firm , wide spread of the toes , and a rare justness in the formation of the ear lappets .
All search was ended ; ;
he had found his fowl .
The purchase was effected and they made their way towards the hotel again , the hen , with whom some sort of communication had been set up , nestling in the doctor's arms .
The clocks struck seven-thirty as they approached the hotel entrance ; ;
and hopes that the chambermaid and patronne would still be abed began to rise in Alex's well exercised breast .
The doctor was wearing a long New England greatcoat , hardly necessary in the June weather but a garment which proved well adapted to the sequestration of hens .
Alex entered first and was followed by the doctor who , for all his care , manifested a perceptible bulge on his left side where the hen was cradled .
They advanced in a line across the entrance hall to the stairway and up , with gingerly steps , towards the first landing .
It was then that they heard the tread of one descending and , in some perturbation glancing up , saw the patronne coming towards them as they gained the landing .
`` Bonjour , messieurs , vous etes matinals '' , she greeted them pleasantly .
Alex explained that they had been out for a stroll before breakfast while the doctor edged around behind him , attempting to hide the protuberance at his left side behind Alex's arm and back .
`` Vous voulez vos petits dejeuners tout de suite alors '' ? ?
Their hostess enquired .
Alex told her that there was no hurry for their breakfasts , trying at the same time to effect a speedy separation of the persons before and behind him .
The doctor , he noticed , was attempting a transverse movement towards the stairs , but before the movement could be completed a distinct and audible cluck ruffled the air in the hollow of the stair-well .
Eyes swerved in the patronne's head , Alex coughed loudly , and the doctor , with a sforzando of chicken noises floating behind him , took to the stairs in long-shanked leaps .
`` Comment '' ? ?
Ejaculated the surprised woman , looking at Alex for an explanation but he , parting from her without ceremony , only offered a few words about the doctor's provincial American speech and a state of nerves brought on by the demands of his work .
With that he hurried up the stairs , followed by her suspicious gaze .
When Alex entered his room , the doctor was already preparing a nest in the straw case , six eggs ready for the hen's attentions .
There was no reference to the incident on the stairs , his powers being absorbed by this more immediate business .
The hen appeared to have no doubts as to her duties and was quick to settle down to the performance of them .
One part of her audience was totally engaged , the connoisseur witnessing a peculiarly fine performance of some ancient classic , the other part , the guest of the connoisseur , attentive as one who must take an intelligent interest in that which he does not fully understand .
The spectacle progressed towards a denouement which was obviously still remote ; ;
the audience attended .
Time elapsed but the doctor was obviously unconscious of its passage until an unwelcome knock on the door interrupted the processes of nature .
Startled , he jumped up to pull hen and case out of view , and Alex went to the door .
He opened it a crack and in doing so made as much shuffling , coughing , and scraping noise as possible in order to drown emanations from the hen who had begun to protest .
It was Giselle , the fille de chambre , come to clean the room , and while she stood before him with ears pricked up and regard all curiosity , explaining her errand , Alex could see from the corner of his eye the doctor doing all he could to calm the displeased bird .
Giselle was reluctant but Alex succeeded in persuading her to come back in five minutes and the door was shut again .
`` Who was that , young feller '' ? ?
The doctor instantly asked .
`` That was the fille de chambre , the one you thought couldn't get the eggs out .
She looked mighty interested , though .
Anyhow she's coming back in five minutes to do the room '' .
The doctor's mind was working at a great speed ; ;
he rose to put his greatcoat on and addressed Alex in a muted voice .
`` Have you got our keys handy '' ? ?
`` Right in my pocket '' .
`` All right .
Now you go outside and beckon me when it's safe '' .
The hall was empty and Alex beckoned ; ;
they climbed the stairs which creaked , very loudly to their sensitive ears , and reached the next floor .
A guest was locking his room ; ;
they passed behind him and got to Alex's room unnoticed .
The doctor sat down rather wearily , caressing the hen and remarking that the city was not the place for a poultry-loving man , but no sooner was the remark out than a knock at this door obliged him to cover the hen with his greatcoat once more .
At the door Alex managed to persuade the increasingly astonished fille de chambre to return in ten minutes .
It was evident that a second transfer had to be effected , and that it had to take place between the time the fille finished the doctor's room and the time she began Alex's .
They waited three minutes and then crept out on tip-toe ; ;
the halls were empty and they passed down the stairs to number nine and listened at the door .
A bustle of sheets being smoothed and pillows being arranged indicated the fille de chambre's presence inside ; ;
they listened and suddenly a step towards the door announced another important fact .
The doctor shot down to the lavatory and turned the doorknob , but to no effect : the lavatory was occupied .
Although a look of alarm passed over his face , he did not arrest his movements but disappeared into the shower room just as the chambermaid emerged from number nine .
Alex suppressed those expressions of relief which offered to prevail in his face and escape from his throat ; ;
unwarranted they were in any case for , as he stood facing the fille de chambre , his ears were assailed by new sounds from the interior of the shower room .
The events of the last quarter of an hour , mysterious to any bird accustomed only to the predictable life of coop and barnyard , had overcome the doctor's hen and she gave out a series of cackly wails , perhaps mourning her nest , but briefly enjoyed .
The doctor's wits had not left him , however , for all his sixty-eight years , and the wails were almost immediately lost in the sound of water rushing out from the showerhead .
Alex nodded to the maid as though nothing unusual were taking place and entered the doctor's room .
Shortly , the doctor himself entered , his hair somewhat wet from the shower , but evidently satisfied with the outcome of their adventures .
Without comment he opened the closet and from its shelves constructed a highboard around the egg case which he had placed on the floor inside .
Next , the hen was nested and all seemed well .
The two men sat for some time , savoring the pleasure of escape from peril and the relief such escape brings , before they got up and left the hotel , the doctor to go to the conference house and Alex to go to the main post office .
Alex returned to the hotel , rather weary and with no new prospects of a role , in the late afternoon , but found the doctor in an ebullient mood .
At the time Alex arrived he was engaged in some sort of intimate communication with the hen , who had settled herself on the nest most peacefully after the occurrences of the morning .
`` Chickens have short memories '' , the doctor remarked , `` that's why they are better company than most people I know '' , and he went on to break some important news to Alex .
`` Well '' , he began , `` It seems like some people in Paris want to hear more from me than those fellers over at the conference house do .
They've got a big vulture from Tanganika at the zoo here , with a wife for him , too , very rare birds , both of them , the only Vulturidae of their species outside Africa .
Seems like she's willing , but the male just flops around all day like the bashful boy who took Jeannie May behind the barn and then didn't know what to do , and the people at the zoo haven't got any vulture chicks to show for their trouble .
Going downstairs with the tray , Winston wished he could have given in to Miss Ada , but he knew better than to do what she said when she had that little-girl look .
There were times it wasn't right to make a person happy , like the times she came in the kitchen and asked know we don't keep peanut `` butter for a peanut butter sandwich .
You in this house '' , he always told her .
`` Why , Winston '' , she'd cry , `` I just now saw you eating it out of the jar '' ! !
But he knew how important it was for her to keep her figure .
In the kitchen , Leona , his little young wife , was reading the morning paper .
Her legs hung down long and thin as she sat on the high stool .
`` Here '' , Winston said gently , `` what's these dishes doing not washed '' ? ?
The enormous plates which had held Mr. Jack's four fried eggs and five strips of bacon were still stacked in the sink .
`` Leave me alone '' , Leona said .
`` Can't you see I'm busy '' ? ?
She looked at him impudently over the corner of the paper .
`` This is moving day '' , Winston reminded her , `` and I bet you left things every which way upstairs , your clothes all over the floor and the bed not made .
Leona '' ! !
His eye had fastened on her leg ; ;
bending , he touched her knee .
`` If I catch you one more time down here without stockings '' --
She twitched her leg away .
`` Fuss , fuss , old man '' .
She had an alley cat's manners .
Winston stacked Miss Ada's thin pink dishes in the sink .
Then he spread out the last list on the counter .
`` To Be Left Behind '' was printed at the top in Miss Ada ; ;
fine hand .
Winston took out a pencil , admired the point , and wrote slowly and heavily , `` Clothes Stand '' .
Sighing , Leona dropped the paper and stood up .
`` I guess I better get ready to go '' .
Winston watched her fumbling to untie her apron .
`` Here '' .
Carefully , he undid the bow .
`` How come your bows is always cockeyed '' ? ?
She turned and put her arms around his neck .
`` I don't want to leave here , Winston '' .
`` Now listen to that '' .
He drew back , embarrassed and pleased .
`` I thought you was sick to death of this big house .
Said you wore yourself out , cleaning all these empty rooms '' .
`` At least there is room here '' , she said .
`` What room is there going to be in an apartment for any child '' ? ?
`` I told you what Miss Ada's doctor said '' .
`` I don't mean Miss Ada ! !
What you think I care about that ? ?
I mean our children '' .
She sounded as though they already existed .
In spite of the hundred things he had on his mind , Winston went and put his arm around her waist .
`` We've got plenty of time to think about that .
All the time in the world .
We've only been married four years , January '' .
`` Four years '' ! !
She wailed .
`` That's a long time , waiting '' .
`` How many times have I told you '' -- he began , and was almost glad when she cut him off -- `` Too many times '' ! !
-- and flounced to the sink , where she began noisily to wash her hands .
Too many times was the truth of it , Winston thought .
He hardly believed his reason himself any more .
Although it had seemed a good reason , to begin with : no couple could afford to have children .
`` How you going to work with a child hanging on you '' ? ?
He asked Leona .
`` You want to keep this job , don't you '' ? ?
He doubted whether she heard him , over the running water .
He sat for a while with his hands on his knees , watching the bend of her back as she gathered up her things -- a comb , a bottle of aspirin -- to take upstairs and pack .
She made him sad some days , and he was never sure why ; ;
it was something to do with her back , the thinness of it , and the quick , jerky way she bent .
She was too young , that was all ; ;
too young and thin and straight .
`` Winston '' ! !
It was Mr. Jack , bellowing out in the hall .
Winston hurried through the swinging door .
`` I've been bursting my lungs for you '' , Mr. Jack complained .
He was standing in front of the mirror , tightening his tie .
He had on his gray tweed overcoat and his city hat , and his brief case lay on the bench .
`` I don't know what you think you've been doing about my clothes '' , he said .
`` This coat looks like a rag heap '' .
There were a few blades of lint on the shoulder .
Winston took the clothesbrush out of the closet and went to work .
He gave Mr. Jack a real going-over ; ;
he brushed his shoulders and his back and his collar with long , firm strokes .
`` Hey '' ! !
Mr. Jack cried when the brush tipped his hat down over his eyes .
Winston apologized and quickly set the hat right .
Then he stood back to look at Mr. Jack , who was pulling on his pigskin gloves .
Winston enjoyed seeing him start out ; ;
he wore his clothes with style .
When he was going to town , nothing was good enough -- he had cursed at Winston once for leaving a fleck of polish on his shoelace .
At home , he wouldn't even wash his hands for supper , and he wandered around the yard in a pair of sweaty old corduroys .
The velvet smoking jackets , pearl-gray , wine , and blue , which Miss Ada had bought him hung brushed and unworn in the closet .
`` Good-by , Winston '' , Mr. Jack said , giving a final set to his hat .
`` Look out for those movers '' ! !
Winston watched him hurry down the drive to his car ; ;
a handsome , fine-looking man it made him proud to see .
After Mr. Jack drove away , Winston went on looking out the window .
He noticed a speck of dirt on the sill and swiped at it with his finger .
Then he looked at his finger , at the wrinkled , heavy knuckle and the thick nail he used like a knife to pry up , slit , and open .
For the first time , he be sad about the move .
That house was ten years off his life let himself .
Each brass handle and hinge shone for his reward , and he knew how to get at the dust in the china flowers and how to take down the long glass drops which hung from the chandelier .
He knew the house like a blind man , through his fingers , and he did not like to think of all the time and rags and polishes he had spent on keeping it up .
Ten years ago , he had come to the house to be interviewed .
The tulips and the big pink peonies had been blooming along the drive , and he had walked up from the bus almost singing .
Miss Ada had been out back , in a straw hat , planting flowers .
She had talked to him right there , with the hot sun in his face , which made him sweat and feel ashamed .
Winston had been surprised at her for that .
Still , he had liked the way she had looked , in a fresh , neat cotton dress -- citron yellow , if he remembered .
She had had a dignity about her , even barefoot and almost too tan .
Since then , the flowers she had planted had spread all over the hill .
Already the jonquils were blooming in a flock by the front gate , and the periwinkles were coming on , blue by the porch steps .
In a week the hyacinths would spike out .
And the dogwood in early May , for Miss Ada's alfresco party ; ;
and after that the Japanese cherries .
Now the yard looked wet and bald , the trees bare under their buds , but in a while Miss Ada's flowers would bloom like a marching parade .
She had dug a hole for each bulb , each tree wore a tag with her writing on it ; ;
where would she go for her gardening now ? ?
Somehow Winston didn't think she'd take to window boxes .
Sighing , he hurried to the living room .
He had a thousand things to see to .
Still , he couldn't help thinking , we're all getting old , getting small ; ;
the snail is pulling in her horns .
In the living room , Miss Ada was standing by the window with a sheaf of lists in her hand .
She was looking out at the garden .
`` Winston '' , she said , `` get the basket for the breakables '' .
Winston had the big straw basket ready in the hall .
He brought it in and put it down beside her .
Miss Ada was looking fine ; ;
she had on her Easter suit , blue , with lavender binding .
Halfway across the house , he could have smelled her morning perfume .
It hung in all her day clothes , sweet and strong ; ;
sometimes when he was pressing , Winston raised her dresses to his face .
Frowning , Miss Ada studied the list .
`` Well , let's see .
The china lemon tree .
The alabaster cockatoo '' .
Winston followed her around the room , collecting the small frail objects ( Christmas , birthday , and anniversary ) and wrapping them in tissue paper .
Neither of them trusted the movers .
When they came to Mr. Jack's photograph , twenty by twelve inches in a curly silver frame , Miss Ada said , `` By rights I ought to leave that , seeing he won't take my clotheshorse '' .
She smiled at Winston , and he saw the hateful hard glitter in her eyes .
He picked up the photograph and began to wrap it .
`` At least you could leave it for the movers '' , Miss Ada said .
`` What possessed you to tell me a clotheshorse would be a good idea '' ? ?
Winston folded the tissue paper carefully .
`` He's used it every day ; ;
every morning , I lay out his clothes on it '' .
`` Well , that's over now .
And it was his main present ! !
Leave that fool picture out '' , she added sharply .
Winston laid it in the basket .
`` Mr. Jack sets store by that '' .
`` Really , Winston .
It was meant to be my present '' .
But she went on down the list .
Winston was relieved ; ;
those presents had been on his mind .
He had only agreed with Miss Ada about getting the valet , but he had actually suggested the photograph to Mr. Jack .
`` You know what she likes , Winston '' , he had said wearily , one evening in November when Winston was pulling off his overshoes .
`` Tell me what to get her for Christmas '' .
`` She's been talking about a picture '' , Winston had told him .
`` Picture ! !
You mean picture of me '' ? ?
But Winston had persuaded him .
On Christmas night , they had had a disagreement about it .
Winston had heard because he was setting up the liquor tray in the next room .
Through the door , he had seen Mr. Jack walking around , waiting for Miss Ada .
Finally she had come down ; ;
Winston had heard her shaking out the skirt of her new pink silk hostess gown .
`` How do you like it '' ? ?
She had asked .
Mr. Jack had said , `` You look about fifteen years old '' .
`` Is that a compliment '' ? ?
`` I don't know '' .
He had stood at a little distance , studying her , as though he would walk around next and look at the back of her head .
`` Lovie , you make me feel naked '' .
Miss Ada had giggled , and she went sweeping and rustling to the couch and sank down .
`` You look like that picture I have at the office '' , Mr. Jack had started .
`` Not a line , not a wrinkle .
I look like an old man , compared '' , and he had picked up his photograph with the red Christmas bow still on it .
`` Look , an old man .
Will you wear pink when you're sixty '' ? ?
`` Darling , I love that photograph .
I'm going to put it on my dresser '' .
`` I guess it's children make a woman old .
A man gets old anyhow '' .
After a minute he went on , `` People must think the curse is on me , seeing you fresh as an apple and me old and gray '' .
`` I'll give you a medical certificate , framed , if you like '' , Miss Ada had said .
`` No .
All I want is a picture -- with a few lines .
Make the man put them in if he has to '' .
After that they had sat for five minutes without saying a word .
Then Miss Ada had stood up , rustling and rustling , and gone upstairs .
Was it love ? ?
I had no doubt that it was .
During the rest of the summer my scholarly mania for making plaster casts and spatter prints of Catskill flowers and leaves was all but surpassed by the constantly renewed impressions of Jessica that my mind served up to me for contemplation and delight .
Nothing in all the preceding years had had the power to bring me closer to a knowledge of profound sorrow than the breakup of camp , the packing away of my camp uniforms , the severing of ties with the six or ten people I had grown most to love in the world .
In final separation from them , in the railroad terminal across the river from New York , I would nearly cry .
My parents' welcoming arms would seem woeful , inadequate , unwanted .
But that year was different , for just as the city , in the form of my street clothes , had intruded upon my mountain nights , so an essential part of the summer gave promise of continuing into the fall : Jessica and I , about to be separated not by a mere footbridge or messhall kitchen but by the immense obstacle of residing in cruelly distant boroughs , had agreed to correspond .
These letters became the center of my existence .
I lived to see an envelope of hers in the morning mail and to lock myself in my room in the afternoon to reread her letter for the tenth time and finally prepare an answer .
My memory has catalogued for easy reference and withdrawal the image of her pink , scented stationery and the unsloped , almost printed configurations of her neat , studious handwriting with which she invited me to recall our summer , so many sentences beginning with `` Remember when ; ;
'' and others concerning camp friends who resided in her suburban neighborhood , , and news of her commencing again her piano lessons , her private school , a visit to Boston to see her grandparents and an uncle who was a surgeon returned on furlough , wounded , from the war in Europe .
In my letters I took on a personality that differed from the self I knew in real life .
Then epistolatory me was a foreign correspondent dispatching exciting cables and communiques , full of dash and wit and glamor , quoting from the books I read , imitating the grand styles of the authors recommended by a teacher in whose special , after-school class I was enrolled .
The letters took their source from a stream of my imagination in which I was transformed into a young man not unlike my bunkmate Eliot Sands -- he of the porch steps anecdotes -- who smoked cigarettes , performed the tango , wore fifty dollar suits , and sneaked off into the dark with girls to do unimaginable things with them .
Like Eliot , in my fantasies , I had a proud bearing and , with a skill that was vaguely continental , I would lead Jessica through an evening of dancing and handsome descriptions of my newest exploits , would guide her gently to the night's climax which , in my dreams , was always represented by our almost suffocating one another to death with deep , moist kisses burning with love .
The night after reading her letter about her surgeon uncle -- it must have been late in September -- I had a vision of myself returned in ragged uniform from The Front , nearly dying , my head bandaged and blooded , and Jessica bending over me , the power of her love bringing me back to life .
For many nights afterward , the idea of her having been so close to me in that imagined bed would return and fill me with obscure and painful desires , would cause me to lie awake in shame , tossing with irresolution , longing to fall into a deep sleep .
The weeks went by , and the longer our separation grew , the more unbounded and almost unbearable my fantasies became .
They caused my love for Jessica to become warmer and at the same time more hopeless , as if my adolescent self knew that only torment would ever bring me the courage to ask to see her again .
As it turned out , Jessica took matters into her own hands .
Having received permission to give a camp reunion-Halloween party , she asked that I come and be her date .
I went and , mum and nervous , all but made a fool of myself .
Again among those jubilantly reunited bunkmates , I was shy with Jessie and acted as I had during those early Saturday mornings when we all seemed to be playing for effect , to be detached and unconcerned with the girls who were properly our dates but about whom , later , in the privacy of our bunks , we would think in terms of the most elaborate romance .
I remember standing in a corner , watching Jessica act the hostess , serving soft drinks to her guests .
She was wearing her dark hair in two , thick braids to attain an `` American Girl '' effect she thought was appropriate to Halloween .
It made her look sweet and schoolgirlish , I was excited to be with her , but I did not know how to express it .
Yet a moment did come that night when the adventurous letter writer and fantasist seemed to stride off my flashy pages , out of my mind , and plant himself in reality .
It was late , we were playing kissing games , and Jessica and I were called on to kiss in front of the others .
We blushed and were flustered , and it turned out to be the fleetest brush of lips upon cheek .
The kiss outraged our friends but it was done and meanwhile had released in me all the remote , exciting premonitions of lust , all the mysterious sensations that I had imagined a truly consummated kiss would convey to me .
It was at that party that , finally overcoming my timidity , inspired by tales only half-understood and overheard among older boys , I asked Jessie to spend New Year's Eve with me .
Lovingly , she accepted , and so great was my emotion that all I could think of saying was , `` You're amazing , you know '' ? ?
Later , we agreed to think of how we wished to spend that night .
We would write to one another and make a definite plan .
She was terribly pleased .
Among my school and neighborhood friends , during the next months , I bragged and swaggered and pompously described my impending date .
But though I boasted and gave off a dapper front , I was beneath it all frightened .
It would be the first time I had ever been completely alone with a girl I loved .
I had no idea of what subjects one discussed when alone with a girl , or how one behaved : Should I hold her hand while walking or only when crossing the street ? ?
Should I bring along a corsage or send one to her ? ?
Was it preferable to meet her at home or in the city ? ?
Should I accompany her to the door of her home , or should I ask to be invited in ? ?
In or out , should I kiss her goodnight ? ?
All this was unknown to me , and yet I had dared to ask her out for the most important night of the year ! !
When in one letter Jessica informed me that her father did not like the idea of her going out alone on New Year's Eve , I knew for a moment an immense relief ; ;
but the letter went on : she had cried , she had implored , she had been miserable at his refusal , and finally he had relented -- and now how happy she was , how expectant ! !
Her optimism gave me heart .
I forced confidence into myself .
I made inquiries , I read a book of etiquette .
In December I wrote her with authority that we would meet on the steps of the Hotel Astor , a rendezvous spot that I had learned was the most sophisticated .
We would attend a film and , later on , I stated , we might go to the Mayflower Coffee Shop or Child's or Toffenetti's for waffles .
I set the hour of our meeting for seven .
At five o'clock that night it was already dark , and behind my closed door I was dressing as carefully as a groom .
I wore a new double-breasted brown worsted suit with a faint herringbone design and wide lapels like a devil's ears .
My camp-made leather wallet , bulky with twisted , raised stitches around the edges , I stuffed with money I had been saving .
Hatless , in an overcoat of rough blue wool , I was given a proud farewell by my mother and father , and I set out into the strangely still streets of Brooklyn .
I felt superior to the neighborhood friends I was leaving behind , felt older than my years , and was full of compliments for myself as I headed into the subway that was carrying its packs of passengers out of that dull borough and into the unstable , tantalizing excitement of Manhattan .
Times Square , when I ascended to it with my fellow subway travellers ( all dressed as if for a huge wedding in a family of which we were all distant members ) , was nearly impassable , the sidewalks swarming with celebrants , with bundled up sailors and soldiers already hugging their girls and their rationed bottles of whiskey .
Heavy-coated , severe-looking policemen sat astride noble horses along the curbside to prevent the revellers from spilling out in front of the crawling traffic .
The night was cold but the crowd kept one warm .
The giant electric signs and marquees were lit up for the first time since blackout regulations had been instituted , and the atmosphere was alive with the feeling that victory was just around the corner .
Cardboard noisemakers , substitutes for the unavailable tin models , were being hawked and bought at makeshift stands every few yards along Broadway , and one's ears were continually serenaded by the horns' rasps and bleats .
An old gentlemen next to me held a Boy Scout bugle to his lips and blasted away at every fourth step and during the interim shouted out , `` V for Victory '' ! !
His neighbors cheered him on .
There was a great sense of camaraderie .
How did one join them ? ?
Where were they all walking to ? ?
Was I supposed to buy a funny hat and a rattle for Jessica ? ?
It was a quarter of seven when the crowd washed me up among the other gallants who had established the Astor steps as the beach-head from which to launch their night of merrymaking .
I looked over their faces and felt a twinge : they all looked so much more knowing than I .
I looked away .
I looked for Jessica to materialize out of the clogging , curdling crowd and , as the time passed and I waited , a fiend came to life beside me and whispered in my ear : How was I planning to greet Jessica ? ?
Where exactly would we go after the movie ? ?
Suppose the lines in front of the movie houses were too long and we couldn't get in ? ?
Suppose I hadn't brought along enough money ? ?
I felt for my wallet .
Its thick , substantial outline calmed me .
But when I saw that it was already ten past seven , I began to wonder if something had gone wrong .
Suppose her father had changed his mind and had refused to let her leave ? ?
Suppose at this very moment her father was calling my house in an effort to cancel the plans ? ?
I grew uneasy .
All about me there was a hectic interplay of meetings taking place , like abrupt , jerky scenes in old silent movies , joyous greetings and beginnings , huggings and kissings , enthusiastic forays into the festive night .
Whole platoons were taking up new positions on the steps , arriving and departing , while I stayed glued , like a signpost , to one spot .
At 7:25 two hotel doormen came thumping down the steps , carrying a saw-horse to be set up as a barricade in front of the haberdashery store window next to the entranceway , and as I watched them in their gaudy red coats that nearly scraped the ground , their golden , fringed epaulets and spic , red-visored caps , I suddenly saw just over their shoulders Jessica gracefully making her way through the crowd .
My heart almost stopped beating .
There were thirty-eight patients on the bus the morning I left for Hanover , most of them disturbed and hallucinating .
An interne , a nurse and two attendants were in charge of us .
I felt lonely and depressed as I stared out the bus window at Chicago's grim , dirty West Side .
It seemed incredible , as I listened to the monotonous drone of voices and smelled the fetid odors coming from the patients , that technically I was a ward of the state of Illinois , going to a hospital for the mentally ill .
I suddenly thought of Mary Jane Brennan , the way her pretty eyes could flash with anger , her quiet competence , the gentleness and sweetness that lay just beneath the surface of her defenses .
We had become good friends during my stay at Cook County Hospital .
I had told her enough about myself to offset somewhat the damaging stories that had appeared in local newspapers after my little adventure in Marshall Field & Co. .
She knew that I lived at a good address on the Gold Coast , that I had once been a medical student and was thinking of returning to the university to finish my medical studies .
She knew also that I was unmarried and without a single known relative .
She wasn't quite sure that I felt enough remorse about my drinking , or that I would not return to it once I was out and on my own again .
This had worried her .
`` I read those newspaper stories about you '' , she had said .
`` You must have loved that girl very much , but you couldn't have meant it when you said that you wanted to kill her '' .
`` Why do you say that '' ? ?
I asked .
`` I was full of booze and , well , a drunk is apt to do anything he says he'll do '' .
Nonsense ! !
I grew up in an Irish neighborhood on Chicago's West Side .
Don't tell me about drunks .
You're not the kind to go violent .
Were you in love with that girl '' ? ?
`` Would it make any difference to you if I were , Mary Jane '' ? ?
She met my eyes , suddenly angry .
`` I wouldn't have gone into nursing if I didn't care about people .
I'm interested in every patient I've helped take care of .
When I think of people like you , well , I '' --
`` You what , Mary Jane '' ? ?
`` You are young , intelligent , have a whole lifetime before you to make something worth while of yourself , but you mess it up with whiskey , indifference , self-destructive attitudes .
I don't blame that girl for breaking her engagement with you .
Was she pretty '' ? ?
`` Oh , yes '' , I said , feeling annoyed , `` she was very pretty .
You don't believe that I'm going back to medical school and finish , do you '' ? ?
`` Why should I ? ?
I've worked this ward for three months now .
We keep getting the same ones back again and again .
They all mean well , have great promises to make when they are about to go home , but drinking is their sickness .
You've not seemed like them , but maybe you are .
You've treated your stay here like a big joke .
It's not a joke to be sent to a place like this or to Hanover .
I wanted to go to college , too '' --
`` Why didn't you '' ? ?
I asked .
`` Chicago has some of the best '' --
Her eyes flashed angrily .
`` That's what I mean about you , Anderson '' , she said .
`` You don't seem to know much about reality .
I'll tell you why I didn't go to college ; ;
I'm the oldest of six children .
My father's a policeman and makes less than seven thousand dollars a year .
There was no money for tuition , for clothes , for all the things you apparently take for granted .
Nurses' training here doesn't cost anything .
They even pay me six dollars a month .
I think it's a good deal .
I'm going to become a good nurse , and I've got two baby brothers that are going to have college if I have to work at my profession until I'm an old maid to give it to them '' .
`` Do you have a boy friend '' ? ?
I asked .
`` That's none of your business '' , she said , then changed the subject .
`` What about your father and mother , don't you think of them when you're in a place like this '' ? ?
`` My father and mother died when I was two years old '' , I said .
`` My aunt raised me .
Aunt Mary died when I was doing my military service .
I have no one but myself to worry about '' .
Something in my voice must have touched her deeply because her anger passed quickly , and she turned away to keep me from seeing her face .
`` I'm sorry '' , she said .
`` I don't know what I'd do without my family .
We've always been so close '' .
`` Tell me more about them '' .
Her eyes became bright as she talked about her father and mother , aunts and uncles , cousins .
Listening , I felt cheated and lonely as only an orphan can .
When she had finished I said :
`` Your dad sounds like a good father and a good policeman .
I'll bet he wouldn't be pleased if a rumdum like me were to ask his daughter for a date -- I mean , after I'm out of the hospital , a month or so from now '' .
`` My father is a sergeant of detectives and has been attached to Homicide for five years .
He's a pretty good judge of character , Anderson .
I don't think he'd mind too much if he were sure you'd decided not to be a rumdum in the future '' .
`` What about you ? ?
How would you feel about it if I were to ask you for a date when I get through at Hanover '' ? ?
`` If I thought you were serious about going back to school , that you'd learned something from your experiences here and at Hanover -- well , I might consider such an offer .
What about your that girl you were going to kill '' ? ?
It suddenly seemed very important to me that Mary Jane Brennan should know the truth about me -- that I was not the confused , sick , irresponsible person she believed me to be .
`` There are things about me that I can't tell you now , Mary Jane '' , I said , `` but if you'll go out to dinner with me when I get out of Hanover , I'd like to tell you the whole story .
I can say this : I'm dead serious about going back to school .
As for that other girl , let's just say that I never want to see her again .
You will get to come home on long weekends from Hanover , won't you '' ? ?
`` Yes , I'll get one overnight a month '' .
`` We'll go up to the Edgewater Beach Hotel for dinner '' , I said .
`` Do you like to dance ? ?
They always have a good orchestra '' .
`` I like to dance '' , she said , then turned and walked away .
There hadn't been anything really personal in her interest in me .
I knew that .
It was just that she felt deeply about every patient on the ward and wanted to believe that they might benefit from their treatment there .
Now , riding this hospital bus , feeling isolated and utterly alone , I knew that she was genuine and unique , quite unlike any girl I had known before .
It seemed the most important thing in my life at this moment that she should know the real truth about me .
It was a fantastic story .
Only two people in the state of Illinois knew that I was entering Hanover State Hospital under an assumed name , or why .
It was unlikely that any girl as sharp as Mary Jane Brennan would believe it without proof .
But I had the proof , all documented in a legal agreement which I would show her the moment I was free to do so .
As the bus turned into the main highway and headed toward Hanover I settled back in my seat and closed my eyes , thinking over the events of the past two weeks , trying to put the pieces in order .
I wondered suddenly as I listened to the disconnected jabberings coming from the patient behind me , if I had not perhaps imagined it all .
Perhaps this was reality and Dale Nelson , the actor , was delusion ; ;
a figment of Carl Anderson's imagination .
Four
I had come to Chicago from New York early in September with a dramatic production called Ask Tony .
It was a bad play , real grade-A turkey , which only a prevalence of angels with grandiose dreams of capital gain and tax money to burn could have put into rehearsal .
No one , not even the producer , had any real hope of getting it back to Broadway .
But because it was a suspense gangster story of the Capone era , many of us felt that it might catch on for a run in Chicago , continue as a road company , and eventually become a movie .
Such optimism was completely unjustified .
The critics literally screamed their indignation .
Ask Tony was doomed from the moment Kupcinet leveled on it in his Sun-Times column .
We opened on Friday and closed the following Monday .
Out of the entire cast I alone received good notices for my portrayal of a psychopathic killer .
This let me in for a lot of kidding from the rest of the company , two members of which were native Chicagoans .
We were paid off Tuesday morning and given tickets back to New York .
I felt lonely and depressed as I packed my bags at the Croydon Hotel .
It seemed to me that my life was destined to be one brilliant failure after another .
I had been among the top third in my class at N.Y.U. , had wanted desperately to go to medical school , but I'd run out of money and energy at the same time .
Then later I had quit my safe , secure five-a-week spot on a network soap opera to take a part in this play .
It seemed to me that I was not only unlucky but quite stupid as well .
I knew that I'd soon be back working as an orderly at the hospital or as a counterman at Union News or Schraffts while waiting for another acting job to open .
It suddenly occurred to me that I did not particularly like acting , that I was at some sort of crossroads and would have to decide soon what I was going to do with my life .
I closed the last bag and stood all three at the door for the bellboy to pick up , then went to the bathroom for a drink of water .
The telephone rang .
When I answered it a voice too dignified and British to be real said , `` Is this Mr. Dale Nelson , the actor '' ? ?
`` All right '' , I said .
`` Why don't you bastards lay off for a while '' ? ?
`` I beg your pardon , sir '' ? ?
`` All right .
This is Dale Nelson the actor '' .
`` Good .
I'm calling you , Mr. Nelson , at the request of Mr. Phillip Wycoff .
Could you possibly have lunch with him today ? ?
His car could pick you up at your hotel at twelve '' .
I smiled .
`` You'll send the Rolls-Royce , of course '' ? ?
`` Yes , of course , Mr. Nelson '' .
I started to say something else appropriate , but the man had hung up .
I finally went downstairs to the bar off the main lobby where most of the cast were drowning their sorrows over the untimely passing of Ask Tony .
They all bowed low as I approached them .
`` All right , you bastards '' , I said , `` the great actor is about to buy a drink '' .
I laid a tenspot on the bar and motioned to the bartender to serve a round .
He had just returned my change when the doorman came in off the street to page me .
I walked over to him .
`` You Mr. Nelson '' ? ?
He asked .
`` That's right '' .
`` Mr. Wycoff's car is waiting for you at the east entrance '' .
I followed him out through the lobby to the street .
An ancient Rolls-Royce , as shiningly impressive as the day it came off the ship , was parked at the curb .
The elderly chauffeur , immaculate in a dark uniform , stood stiffly at attention holding open the door of the town car .
I was giving the parked cars the once-over .
The Oldsmobile with the license number JYJ 114 was in stall number five .
`` Okay '' , I said to the attendant , `` I'll let you know if I close the deal on the office in this building '' .
I walked with him back to the entrance .
He gave me a ticket on the agency car and parked it .
I was back in ten minutes .
`` Forgot to get something out of the car '' , I told him , showing him my ticket .
He started to say something as I walked in and then suddenly grinned and said , `` Oh , yes .
You're the one I was talking to about a monthly rental .
`` That's right '' , I told him .
He consulted the parking ticket , then looked at a notation and said , `` You're in the third row back toward the rear .
Can you find it all right '' ? ?
`` Sure '' , I told him .
I went back to the agency car and got out an electric bug , one of the newest devices for electronic shadowing .
I always keep a set in the car .
I put in new batteries so as to be certain I'd have plenty of power and on my way out walked over to the regular parking stalls and stood looking at them thoughtfully .
I waited until the parking attendant was busy with a customer , then slipped around the back of the car with license number JYM 114 , attached the electronic bug to the rear bumper and walked out .
The attendant waved me on .
One of the hardest chores a detective has is hanging around on a city street , trying to make himself inconspicuous , keeping an eye on the entrance of an office building and waiting .
For the first fifteen or twenty minutes it's possible to be more or less interested in window displays , then in people passing by .
After a while , however , a person's mind gets fed up and that magnifies all of the disagreeable physical symptoms which go with that sort of an assignment .
You want to sit down .
Your leg muscles and back muscles feel weary .
You're conscious of the fact that your feet hurt , that the city pavements are hard .
I waited a solid two hours before my man came out of the office building .
He came out alone .
I wasn't far behind him when he entered the parking lot and hurried over to his car .
The attendant recognized me once more and said , `` What did you do about that office '' ? ?
`` I haven't made up my mind yet '' , I said .
`` It's a sublease .
I have a couple of them I'm figuring on ; ;
one here and one that's out quite a ways where there's usually curb parking '' .
`` That curb parking is undependable and annoying , particularly when it rains '' , he said .
I kept trying to get him to take my money .
`` Okay '' , I told him .
`` I'm in a rush right now .
I know where the car is .
Want me to drive it out '' ? ?
`` I'll have one of the boys get it '' , he said .
`` It's one of the rules on transients .
Regulars drive out their own cars '' .
`` Make it as snappy as you can , will you '' ? ?
I asked .
`` Oh , that's all right '' , he said .
`` You're going to be a regular .
You'll get in the office building here .
You don't want to lease a place way out in the sticks .
You get business where the business is , not where it isn't '' .
I grinned at him , handed him a couple of dollars and said , `` By the time you get the parking charge figured up , there should be a cigar in it for you '' .
I hurried over to the agency heap , jumped in , started the motor and was just in time to see the car I wanted to shadow turn to the left .
I was held up a bit trying to make a left turn .
By the time I'd made it he was gone .
Traffic was pretty heavy .
I turned on the electric bug , and the signal came in loud and clear .
I made time and picked him up within ten blocks .
I stayed half a block behind him , letting lots of cars keep in between us , listening to the steady beep beep beep .
After fifteen minutes of traffic driving he turned to the left .
I couldn't see him , but the electric bugging device gave steady beeps when it was straight ahead , short half beeps when the car I was following was to the left , and long drawn-out beeps when it turned to the right .
If it ever got behind me , the beep turned to a buzz .
I turned left too soon and got a signal showing that I was still behind him but he was to the right .
After a while the signal became a buzz and I knew he was behind me .
That meant he'd parked someplace .
I made a big circle until I located the car parked at the curb in front of an apartment house .
I found a parking place half a block away , sat in the car and waited .
My quarry was in the apartment house for two hours .
Then he came out and started driving toward the beach .
By this time it was dark .
I could get up close to him where there was traffic but had to drop far behind when there wasn't traffic .
My lights would have been a giveaway if I'd tried to shadow him in the conventional manner .
Moreover , I'd have lost him if it hadn't been for the electronic shadowing device .
His signal was coming loud and clear and then all of a sudden it turned to a buzz .
I circled the block and found he was in the parking lot of a high-class restaurant .
I sat where I could watch the exit and realized I was hungry .
I sat there with the faint odor of charcoal-broiled steaks tantalizing my nostrils and occasionally catching the aroma of coffee .
My man came out an hour later , drove to the beach , turned right and after half a mile went to the Swim and Tan Motel .
It was a fairly modern motel with quite a bit of electrical display in front .
I remembered it was the Peeping Tom place .
I waited until my man was coming out of the office with the key to a cabin before I went in to register .
The card the man I was shadowing had filled out was still on the counter .
I noticed that he was in Unit 12 and that he had registered under the name of Oscar L. Palmer and wife , giving a San Francisco address .
He had written out the license number of his car but had transposed the last two figures , an old dodge which is still good .
Ninety-nine times out of a hundred the motel manager doesn't check the license number on the plates against the license number the tenant writes out .
If he does , it's still better than an even chance he won't notice the transposition of the numbers , and if he should notice it , the thing can be passed off as an honest mistake .
I used the alias of Robert C. Richards , gave the first three letters and the first and last figure of the license number on the agency heap , but a couple of phony numbers in between .
I could have written anything .
The manager of the motel was a woman who apparently didn't care .
She was complying with the law in regard to registrations but she certainly wasn't checking license numbers or bothering the tenants .
`` You mean you're all alone , Mr. Richards '' ? ?
`` That's right '' .
`` Your wife isn't going to join you -- later '' ? ?
`` I don't think so '' .
`` If you expect her to show up '' , she said , `` you'd better put ' and wife ' on there .
It's a formality , you know '' .
`` Any difference in the rate '' ? ?
I asked .
`` Not to you '' , she said smiling .
`` It's ten dollars either way .
There are ice cubes in a container at the far end and in another by the office .
There are three soft-drink vending machines , and if you should be joined by -- anybody -- try to keep things quiet , if you will .
We like to run a nice quiet place '' .
`` Thank you '' , I told her .
I took another sidelong glance at the other registration card , then took the key to Unit 13 that she had given me and went down long enough to park the car .
The construction was reasonably solid ; ;
not like the cracker-box construction of so many of the motel units that have stucco all over the outside but walls that are thin enough so you can hear every movement of the people in the adjoining apartment .
I put a small electric amplifier against the wall on the side I wanted to case .
With the aid of that I could hear my man moving around , heard him cough a couple of times , heard the toilet flush , heard the sound of water running .
Whoever his companion was going to be , she was going to join him later .
She knew where to come .
He didn't have to telephone .
I was so hungry my stomach felt all lines of communication had been severed .
It's one thing to go without food when you're occupied with some work or when you're simply postponing a meal , but when you're dependent on someone else and know that you can't eat until he's bedded down for the night , hunger can be a gnawing torture .
I had noticed a drive-in down the road a quarter of a mile .
The batteries on the bugging device I had put on the car were still fresh enough to send out good strong signals .
The powerful microphone I could press against the wall between my motel unit and that occupied by the man would bring in the sound of any conversation , and I was positively nauseated I was so hungry .
I got in the car , drove down to the drive-in and ordered a couple of hamburgers with everything included , a cup of coffee and the fastest service possible .
The place wasn't particularly busy at that time of night , and the girl who was waiting on me , who was clothed in the tightest-fitting pair of slacks I had ever seen on a woman and a sweater that showed everything there was -- and there was lots of it -- wanted to be sociable .
`` You really in a hurry , Handsome '' ? ?
She asked .
`` I'm in a hurry , Beautiful '' .
`` It's early in the evening to be in a hurry .
There's lots of time left '' .
`` There may not be any women left '' , I said .
She gave a little pout and said , `` I don't get off work until eleven o'clock .
That's when my evening commences '' .
`` I'll be here at ten-fifty-five '' , I said .
`` Oh , you ! !
'' She announced .
`` That's what they all say .
What's that thing going buzz-buzz-buzz in your car '' ? ?
I said `` Darn it , that's the automatic signal that shows when the ignition key is on .
I didn't turn it off '' .
I reached over and switched off the electronic bugging device .
She went in to get the hamburgers , and I switched on the device again and kept the signal from Dowling's car coming in steady and clear until I saw her starting back with the hamburgers .
Then I shut off the device again .
She wanted to hang around while I was eating .
`` Don't you think it's selfish to have dinner before you go to pick her up '' ? ?
`` No '' , I said .
`` It's a kindness to her .
You see , she's on a diet .
She'll eat just a pineapple and cottage cheese salad and I'm to have one with her so she won't feel out of place '' .
`` Diets can be terrible '' , the girl said .
`` How much overweight is she '' ? ?
`` Not a bit '' , I said , `` but she's keeping her figure in hand '' .
She looked at me provocatively .
`` Good figures should be kept in hand '' , she said , and walked away with an exaggerated wiggle .
I turned on the device again , half fearful that I might find silence , but the buzzes came in loud and clear .
When I switched on the lights for her to come and get the check , I had the exact change plus a dollar tip .
The fat man said , `` All we gotta do is go around the corner '' .
The gun moved .
The thin man said , `` That-a-way '' .
`` -- second building on the right '' .
`` -- it says police right on the door '' .
`` -- so even if we was as dumb as you take us for , we could still find it '' .
Roberta and Dave began to back toward the door .
The thin man waved the gun again .
He said , `` Right around the corner '' .
`` It says water works , but there is a policeman on duty , too '' .
`` A night policeman just like in the States .
You know '' ? ?
`` Canada doesn't have much of this here juvenile delinquency problem , but we keep a night policeman all the same on account of the crazy tourists '' .
At the door , Dave paused to feel for the latch .
Roberta glanced up at her husband .
He was going to be sensible and not try to do anything rash with that gun pointed at him .
She measured the distance from where they stood to the men and the gun , measured the distance from the men to the back room .
She decided to risk it .
There was something phony about all this gun waving -- something not quite what it seemed in the detailed directions for finding the police .
Dave had the latch under his thumb now and he removed his arm from his wife in order to pull the door open .
In a flash she was away to the back , paying no attention to three angry shouts from the male throats .
She tore open the back door .
It was dark inside the room but enough light spilled from the restaurant behind her to enable her to make out a round table with a green cloth top .
There was a small sideboard with some empty beer bottles on it and perhaps fifteen wooden chairs .
Slowly she turned to face the men again .
Rat-face at the counter was on his feet .
The distance between where she stood and where Dave waited at the outside door was a hundred miles .
Keeping her frightened gaze on the men at the counter , she began to feel her way to the door .
She sidled along the booths one step at a time .
The gun followed her .
As she reached Dave and felt his arm go around her , felt him pull her to the safety of his person , she knew with the certainty of despair that something bad had happened to Lauren .
The two men watched as Dave closed the door behind them , watched them cross the sidewalk to their car .
It was getting light .
The fat man removed his apron , put on a greasy and wrinkled jacket , and zipped it over his paunch .
The thin man moved swiftly to the phone and dialed a number .
When he was answered , he said , `` Albert ? ?
Vince .
I'm sending you a couple of customers -- yeah -- just get them out of my hair and keep them out -- I don't give a damn what you tell them -- only don't believe a word they say -- they're out to make trouble for me and it is up to you to stop them -- I don't care how -- and one more thing -- Cate's Cafe closed at eleven like always last night and Rose and Clarence Corsi left for Quebec yesterday -- some shrine or other -- I think it was called Saint Simon's -- yeah , yesterday .
Got it '' ? ?
He turned from the phone and strode to the front of the restaurant .
The white Buick hadn't moved away yet .
Good .
A line of worry formed , a twitch pulled his mouth over to one side .
He said , `` Grosse ? ?
You ain't kidding me -- the kid don't know the name of this town '' ? ?
`` I ain't kidding you , Vince .
How could she ? ?
She musta been walking in her sleep -- you seen her yourself in here '' .
`` Howda I know '' ? ?
`` Remember how she looked when Barney held the door for her ? ?
Kinda like a zombie ? ?
She was just waking up when we found her at the garage '' .
Vince swore .
`` Stupid fools -- ain't got enough brains between the two of you '' --
Grosse muttered , his head down , one hand playing with the zipper on his jacket .
`` -- had enough brains to call ya up so as ya could do sompin about it when the parents -- I coulda let her go go '' -- His eyes were lowered , so he couldn't have seen the narrow , pointed face of his companion suddenly writhe with fury ; ;
but he was aware of it just the same .
He knew Vince Steiner was one of those men who had to work up a fury once in a while just to prove how dangerous he could be .
With a curse , Vince seized the thing nearest , a glass sugar container with a spouted metal top , and threw it against the wall opposite .
The heavy glass didn't break , but the top flew off ; ;
sugar sprayed with a hiss that was loud in the silence .
Not really startled , but careful to appear so , Grosse sucked noisily on his pipe .
Vince cursed steadily .
`` Why does everything have to happen to me '' ? ?
Grosse quietly got a broom and started to sweep up the sugar .
Vince watched him .
His mouth worked over the profanity , the obscenities in his vocabulary .
Once he said , `` Why'n hell didn't you look in the back seat of the car before you drove off ? ?
Don't you and Barney ever use your brains '' ? ?
The fat man didn't answer .
He got one of the menus and brushed the spilled sugar onto it and carried it to a box on the floor behind the counter .
He returned the menu to its place between catchup bottle and paper napkin dispenser .
He spoke soothingly .
`` She don't know nothing about them cars .
She thinks she's in a ordinary garage '' .
`` How do you know , stupid ? ?
And put Cate's gun back '' .
`` I know '' .
Grosse tucked the gun under the counter .
`` -- one word of this gets to Guardino '' --
`` Who's telling Guardino '' ? ?
Vince swore again .
`` You get that kid over to Rose's house '' .
The fat man winced .
He ran a finger down his cheek , tracing the scratch there .
`` Why can't I leave her locked up in the tool crib '' ? ?
The thin man stopped his pacing long enough to glance at the clock .
`` You and Barney get her over to Rose's before it gets too light .
After Guardino's left , we'll dump the kid somewhere near the border where she kin get home .
God help you if she knows where she's been '' .
Grosse spread his hands .
`` What am I going to do with her all day ? ?
In the tool crib she can't get away '' .
`` What the hell do I care what you do with her all day ? ?
Just get her where Guardino won't see her and start asking questions '' .
Grosse swore now .
`` Dammit all , Vince .
I ain't no baby sitter '' .
Vince shouted finally , `` Get her over to Rose's and I'll come by and see that she stays put '' .
Grosse rubbed the bridge of his nose where it was swollen .
He spoke sullenly .
`` You don't hafta get nasty .
I wish you luck when you try scaring that kid '' .
Suddenly he grinned .
His voice lost its sullen tones and he chuckled .
`` I got one question '' .
`` What is it '' ? ?
Impatiently .
`` Are you a poor dumb Canadian or a smart aleck from the States '' ? ?
Vince lifted his hand as if to strike , but his thin lips spread in a smile .
Grosse ducked and sniggered .
`` Where'd you say you was born '' ? ?
`` In a Chicago slum just like you .
And I ain't going back there on account of one lousy kid '' .
Lauren Landis rubbed her face against the blanket .
She had cried a little because she was frightened .
She could easily understand why the two men had been startled to find a strange girl in the back seat of their car ( she had figured that out ) , but she couldn't understand their subsequent actions .
Was it because she had shown panic ? ?
Who could blame her for that ? ?
It was one thing to awaken outside a restaurant where your parents were eating and quite another to awaken in a strange garage and know your parents had gone on home without you .
She was glad the fat man had left .
Barney was not really frightening .
She jumped as the little man now appeared at the window and , reaching through the opening , offered her a bottle of coke .
She smiled at him wetly .
Although she found she was thirsty , she was about to refuse ( never , never take candy from a strange man ) when she saw the bottle was unopened .
He placed a bottle opener on the counter .
So , he understood her panic .
She blew her nose on a tissue and opened the coke bottle .
It was icy cold and tasted delicious .
She felt a lift in spirit .
When she was finished she pushed it back .
The man was busy doing something to the inside of the door-frame on the driver's side of a car .
She called softly , `` Barney '' .
He looked in her direction but he didn't answer .
She said , `` Barney , why is he keeping me here '' ? ?
Still no answer .
He seemed to be looking at a point above the little window .
Lauren said , `` Why can't I call my home ? ?
Or borrow some money from someone and go home by bus ? ?
I could send the money right back '' .
Barney finished the cigarette he had been smoking .
He dropped it and carefully ground it to nothing with the sole of his heavy shoe .
Now he looked at her .
He said , `` I only work here '' .
Lauren said , `` Please '' ? ?
But he was back at work on a car .
She dropped her head on her arms on the counter .
How could he be kind one moment and cruel the next ? ?
Did he know something that made him feel sad and sorry for her ? ?
And was he afraid to do anything as definite as releasing her ? ?
Her heart was thumping painfully ; ;
the unknown was so much worse than -- what dangers lay ahead for her ? ?
What awful thing had she to face in the next few hours ? ?
Something wet and hot was trickling on her wrists .
Tears ? ?
With a sturdy act of will she turned her mind away from herself ; ;
as long as she could do nothing constructive about the situation she was in , she would think about something else .
Her mother and father , for instance .
Where were they now ? ?
In her mind she followed the white Buick along the road somewhere between here and the Niagara River .
Her father's attention would be on the road ahead and it wouldn't deviate an inch until he crossed the bridge at the Falls and took the River Road to LaSalle and , finally , turned in at their own driveway at 387 Heather Heights .
Then he would yawn and stretch and shout , `` All out .
This is the end of the line '' .
And what would her mother be doing right now ? ?
Her mother would be fast asleep curled up against that wonderful , big , safe , solid shoulder next to her on the front seat .
Lauren Landis was in trouble and she was alone .
Roberta Landis put her hand on her husband's arm as he slid in the driver's seat beside her .
Somewhere birds were sweetly calling , were answered .
Her teeth chattered so that she made three attempts at speech before she became intelligible .
`` Dave .
I saw that woman's apron behind the door .
There was a wet spot -- she couldn't have been gone long '' .
Dave made some sound meant to convey agreement .
He inserted the car key in the lock .
Roberta was violently trembling .
She stammered , `` You heard what he said about police ? ?
Why don't we drive around the corner '' ? ?
The car door crashed shut .
The engine throbbed into life .
Dave said , `` I got the message .
We're going '' .
Roberta said , `` no .
You go .
Walk .
Suppose Lauren comes looking for us ? ?
I can sit here in the car while you walk around the corner '' .
The big car sprang away from the curb like something alive .
He said , `` I'm not going to leave my wife and my car out here in sight of those '' --
Roberta glanced at him and stopped trembling .
His jowls were spiked by barbs of graying beard .
His small , mean eyes regarded Marty steadily , unblinkingly .
His eyes were threaded by little filaments of red as if tiny veins had burst and flooded blood into them .
As he chewed his gum and exuded wheezing breath , Marty smelt the reek of bad whiskey .
Marty recognized the man .
He had driven the car that passed them on the road outside Admassy's place .
This was Acey Squire , proprietor of the juke joint .
Marty smiled at Squire pleasantly and said , `` There was a cab waiting for me here .
Do you know where it might have gone '' ? ?
Squire chewed his gum , his jaw moving in a steady rhythm .
He looked straight at Marty .
He did not answer .
Marty scanned the faces of the others nearest him , looked into their staring eyes .
`` Did anyone see my cab '' ? ?
He asked , keeping his voice casual .
He avoided showing any surprise or annoyance when no one answered him .
`` I have to get back to Jarrodsville '' , he went on .
`` I see there are some cars here .
I wonder if one of you gentlemen could drive me back to town ? ?
I'd be happy to pay for the favor , of course '' .
The seventeen men stood and stared at him for a moment longer .
And then a startling thing occurred .
It was so utterly unexpected that Marty stood for several moments with his mouth hanging open foolishly after it had happened .
There was no word spoken , no apparent signal given .
Yet the men all moved at the same instant .
They piled into the waiting cars , motors roared , the cars sped off .
The station wagon and the old Plymouth headed east toward Jarrodsville .
The Ford and the pickup truck sped west toward Sanford's Run .
In seconds all four cars were out of sight .
Marty Land stood alone on a red-clay road as storm clouds gathered ominously in the sky again .
From a great distance thunder growled and broke the silence .
Land looked back toward the dilapidated house .
He thought he saw a pale face at a window .
Perhaps it was Dora May .
Perhaps she would be glad that they hadn't hurt him .
There were other farmhouses nearby .
Across the road there was one no more than a hundred yards away .
There was another on this side , a little further down .
There were many more between here and Jarrodsville .
Telephone poles lined the road .
They reared tall and mocking .
Their wires stretched out into infinity .
Not a single strand of wire reached into the silent houses beside the red-clay road .
There was nothing he could do but walk .
And Jarrodsville was more than three miles away , down an old dirt road that the rain had turned into a quagmire .
Marty faced east and started walking down the left side of the road .
After he had proceeded a few feet , he paused and turned up the cuffs of his trousers , which were already damp and mud-caked .
The viscous mud was ankle-deep , and in places great puddles spread across the road and reflected the murky light .
As he approached the first farmhouse , thunder sounded behind him again , closer now and louder , like a steadily advancing drum corps .
There were several people on the porch of the farmhouse .
There was a very old man and a young woman and a brood of children ranging from toddlers to teen-agers .
For just an instant he thought of appealing to them for help .
Perhaps they had a car or truck and would drive him into town .
Then he realized the utter futility of the idea .
They were staring at him in the same blank and menacing way that the men outside the gate had stared .
Even the eyes of the smallest children seemed malicious .
On his side of the road there were two farm hands , well back in a field , leaning against a plow .
They , too , stared at him .
The drums of thunder were right behind him now .
A foolish thought came into his head .
He remembered a story he had read as a youth .
It was probably one of Kipling's tales of the British Army .
It concerned an officer who had been disgraced and drummed out .
The steady roll of the drums had sounded behind him as he walked between the endless ranks of the men he had commanded , and each man about-faced and turned his back as the officer approached .
Marty wished these poor farm people would turn their backs .
The fencing by the roadside ended .
Now the dirt highway was bordered on either side by a fairly deep drainage ditch , too broad to leap over unless you were an Olympic star .
The day's rain had been added to the stagnant water .
He was trapped on the road when he heard the sound of an approaching car .
It was coming toward him .
The car was now in sight .
Marty's heart skipped a beat when he recognized it .
It was the station wagon that had passed his cab on the road , the station wagon that had been parked at the Burch farm .
Acey Squire's station wagon .
It had headed back toward Jarrodsville .
That had only been a ruse to lure him out on the deserted road .
Now Acey and his friends were returning to seek him out .
The station wagon came to a stop a couple of hundred feet in front of him , beside a fenced field .
Then there was another sound .
A second car was coming from the west , from the direction of Sanford's Run .
It was the Ford that had been outside Burch's farm .
Marty looked helplessly in both directions .
It was a narrow road , barely wide enough for two cars to pass .
He could not leave the road because of the water-filled drainage ditch .
When the two cars were equidistant from him , the station wagon started up again and the Ford gathered speed .
They bore down on him .
There was nothing he could do except jump into the ditch .
He jumped , and sank to his knees in muddy water .
As the two cars roared by , there was a high-pitched eerie , nerve-shattering sound .
Marty knew how the Union soldiers must have felt at Chancellorsville and Antietam and Gettysburg when the ragged gray ranks charged at them , screaming the wild banshee howl they called the Rebel yell .
For moments he stood in water , shivering and gasping for breath .
He had turned his ankle slightly , and it pained him .
The cars , with their load of howling men , had disappeared in the distance .
There had been two more cars parked at the farm , a Plymouth and a pickup truck .
They would be coming for him next , bearing down on him from both directions .
And then the station wagon and the Ford would seek him out again .
He would be harassed repeatedly and would escape death by inches time after time , all the way to Jarrodsville .
He still had three miles to go .
Back East the more affluent juvenile delinquents , who could afford hyped-up autos instead of switch blades as lethal weapons , played this same game and called it `` Chicken '' .
He could not go through the fields .
That way was barred on both sides of the road by a high barbed-wire fence .
He had to make for the section of road just ahead that was bordered by the rail fence , the section by the farmhouse .
At least he could climb up on the fence when his tormenters roared by again .
The Admassy place could not be far now .
He would go in there , climb through the window , and at least be safe for a little while and able to rest .
There was even a bare chance that the phone had not been disconnected .
He did not dare climb back up to the road .
He was deep in water , but at least they could not reach him there .
He splashed on , mud sucking at his feet with each step , until he reached the end of the drainage ditch and the beginning of the fence that enclosed the farm .
He climbed back to the road , and he felt utterly exhausted .
He stood , panting , for a moment .
And then he saw something that he had not seen before , and panic gripped him again .
The fence , his only refuge when the metal death came roaring at him , was made of rails , all right , but the rails were protected by a thick screening of barbed wire that would rip his flesh if he pressed against it .
He lurched on down the road despairingly , because there was no place else to go .
He lost all sense of dignity .
You could not stand on dignity when you were soaked and muddied and your life was at stake .
Probably people were watching him from the porch or from behind the windows of this farmhouse , too , but he did not bother to look .
He broke into a dogtrot , breathing heavily , streaming with sweat .
He had to reach Admassy's place .
It was his only sanctuary .
The fences on both sides of the road bristled with the barbed wire .
The fences stretched on endlessly .
And then he heard them .
And now he saw them .
The Plymouth was coming at him from the east , the pickup truck from the west .
They had timed it better this time .
They would reach him at almost exactly the same instant .
He stopped stone-still .
If he backed against the fence , one of the cars would brush him as it passed , and he would be cruelly lacerated by the wire .
He stumbled to the middle of the road and simply stood there , waiting for them , a perfect target .
The cars must have had their gas pedals pushed down to the floor boards .
They were coming on at reckless speed for such old vehicles .
They thundered at him .
He held his arms close to his sides and made himself as small as possible .
When the Plymouth neared , it veered toward him and seemed about to run him down .
He forced himself to stay frozen there .
If he moved , he would be in the path of the other car .
He thought the fender of the Plymouth brushed his jacket as it went by .
In a fraction of a second the pickup truck hurtled by on the other side .
The weird , insane sound of the Rebel yell reverberated again and echoed from the distant hills .
He did not leave the middle of the road .
He did not try to run .
He trudged on , his aching eyes focused straight ahead .
He was nearing the Admassy house .
He was going to make it , he told himself .
And then he heard a car coming from the east , and he felt as if he would break down and weep .
`` Oh , no , not again '' , he said aloud .
`` Not again so soon '' .
There was a new sound , a sound as piercing as the Rebel yell , yet different .
It was the sound of a siren .
Now he saw that the approaching car was painted white , and he began to wave his arms frantically .
It was the prowl car from the sheriff's office .
The car drew up alongside him and stopped .
`` Get in '' , Charley Estes said brusquely .
He staggered into the back seat and lay back , fighting for breath .
There was someone in front with the sheriff .
It was Pete Holmes , the cabdriver .
Pete turned around and said to Marty , `` I guess you think I'm a yellow-bellied hound .
But there wasn't no use in me staying there .
I couldn't fight a dozen or so of 'em .
If I'd stayed , all that I'd have got was four punctured tires and one busted head .
Why didn't you wait at the Burch house ? ?
You must've known I'd gone to get the sheriff .
I was lucky they let me go , I guess '' .
The sheriff was occupied with maneuvering the car around in a very narrow space .
When it was finally pointed east , he said , `` You should never have come out here alone .
This is redneck country .
Every man in every one of these houses is a Night Rider .
Then he turned the telephone over to Rourke , and went into the bedroom to change his slippers for dry socks and shoes .
Rourke was talking on the phone when he came back .
`` About an hour , eh ? ?
Are you positive '' ? ?
He listened a moment and then said , `` Hold it '' .
He turned his head and said , `` Alvarez will definitely be in a back room at the Jai Alai Club on South Beach within an hour .
Want to try and meet him there '' ? ?
Shayne looked at his watch .
That wasn't too far from Fifth Street , and should allow him to make Scotty's Bar by midnight .
He said with satisfaction , `` That's fine , Tim .
I'll be there '' .
Rourke confirmed the appointment over the phone and hung up .
`` I don't know what you're getting into , Mike '' , he said unhappily .
`` I hope to Christ .
''
Shayne said briskly , `` Grab another drink if you want it .
We've got one other call to make before I meet Alvarez '' .
`` Where '' ? ?
`` It's out in the Northeast section .
Have you got my car here '' ? ?
`` It's parked in front '' .
Rourke hastily slopped whiskey into his glass on top of half-melted ice-cubes .
`` I'd better keep on driving yours '' , Shayne decided , `` because I'll be going on over to the Beach .
I can drop you back here to pick mine up '' .
He went to a closet to get a light jacket , and took his hat from beside the door .
Timothy Rourke gulped down the whiskey hastily and joined him , asking , `` Who are we going to call on in the Northeast section '' ? ?
`` A lady .
That is , maybe not too much of a lady .
At least , I want to find out whether she's home yet or not '' .
He opened the door and followed Rourke out .
In Rourke's car , Shayne drove east to Biscayne Boulevard and north toward Felice Perrin's address which had been given to him by the Peralta governess .
As he drove , he filled in Timothy Rourke briefly on the events of the evening after leaving the reporter to go to the Peralta house , and on his own surmises .
`` I want to be in Scotty's Bar at midnight when Marsha makes her phone call there '' , he ended grimly .
`` I don't know whether that threatening letter of hers has anything to do with this situation or not , but I want to see who takes the call '' .
`` This deal at Las Putas Buenas where the two knife-men jumped you '' , said Rourke with interest , `` that sounds like it was set up with malice aforethought by the luscious Mrs. Peralta , doesn't it '' ? ?
`` It does '' , Shayne grunted sourly , still able to taste her mouth on his in the Green Jungle parking lot .
`` That story of hers about an unsigned note directing her to be there tonight sounds completely phony .
If it was designed to put me on the spot , it would have to have been written before Peralta ever called me in on the case '' .
`` Do you think Laura did have the counterfeit bracelet made without her husband's knowledge '' ? ?
`` I haven't the faintest idea .
I think her husband strongly suspects so , and that's why he called me in on the thing in direct defiance of his confederates and almost certainly without telling them why he was doing so .
Isn't this Felice's street '' ? ?
Shayne asked , peering ahead at the partially obscured street sign .
Rourke could see it better out the right-hand side , and he said , `` yes .
Turn to the left , I think , for that number you gave me .
Not more than a block or so '' .
Shayne got in the left-hand lane and cut across the Boulevard divider .
There was a small , neon-lighted restaurant and cocktail lounge on the southeast corner of the intersection as he turned into the quiet , palm-lined street where most of the houses on both sides were older two-story mansions , now cut up into furnished rooms and housekeeping apartments .
Shayne drove westward from the Boulevard slowly , letting Rourke crane his head out the window and watch for street numbers .
A single automobile was parked half-way up the block on the left-hand side .
Shayne noted idly that it carried Miami Beach license plates as he approached , and then saw the flare of a match in the front seat as they passed , indicating that it was occupied .
He turned to see the briefly-illumed faces of two men in the parked car just as Rourke said , `` It's the next house , Mike .
On the right '' .
Instead of pulling into the curb , Shayne increased his speed slightly to the corner where he swung left .
He went around the corner and parked , turning off his lights and motor .
`` I told you , Mike '' , said Rourke in an aggrieved voice .
`` It was back there .
''
Shayne said , `` I know it was , Tim '' .
His voice was chilling and cold .
`` Did you see the car parked across the street '' ? ?
`` I didn't notice it .
I was watching for numbers .
''
`` It has a Beach license , Tim .
Two men in the front seat .
I got a quick look at their faces as we went past .
Unless I'm crazy as hell , they're two of Painter's dicks .
A couple named Harris and Geely .
Those names mean anything to you '' ? ?
`` Wait a minute , Mike .
In Painter's office this evening .
''
Shayne nodded grimly .
`` The pair whom Petey is officially commending for slapping me around and pulling me in '' .
`` What are they doing here '' ? ?
`` A stake-out , I suppose .
On Felice Perrin .
Maybe with specific orders to see that I don't make contact with her .
I'm not positive , Tim .
I may be wrong .
I'll slide out and walk around the block back to the cocktail lounge on Biscayne .
You drive on and circle back and pull up beside them parked there .
You're a reporter , and you're looking for Miss Perrin to interview her .
Make them show their hands .
If they are Beach cops on a stake-out , they'll admit it to a reporter .
They've got no official standing on this side of the Bay .
As soon as you find out if they are Geely and Harris , come on around to the lounge where I'll be waiting '' .
Shayne opened the door on his side and stepped out .
Timothy Rourke groaned dismally as he slid under the wheel .
`` The things you talk me into , Mike .
''
Shayne chuckled .
`` How often do they add up to headlines ? ?
You should complain '' .
He crossed the street and walked swiftly southward to circle back to the Boulevard and north a block to the open restaurant .
He was standing at the end of the bar enjoying a slug of cognac when Rourke came in six or eight minutes later .
The reporter nodded as he moved up beside him at the bar .
Shayne told the bartender , `` Bourbon and water '' , and Rourke told him , `` It's those two , all right .
Harris and Geely .
I made them show me their identification before I could be persuaded not to call on Felice Perrin '' .
Shayne said happily , `` I've got it all worked out , Tim .
Take your time with your drink .
I'll beat it .
In exactly three minutes , go in that phone booth behind you and call Police Headquarters .
Be excited and don't identify yourself .
Just say that a couple of drunks are having a hell of a fight down the street , and they better send a patrol car .
Then hang up fast and come walking on down to the Perrin address .
I'll be waiting for you there '' .
The bartender brought Rourke's drink and Shayne laid a twenty-dollar bill on the bar .
He said in a low voice , `` I've got a date with a lady , Mister .
Will that pay for a pint I can take with me .
You know how it is '' , he added with a conspiratorial wink .
`` Candy is dandy , but liquor is quicker and you don't have any candy for sale here anyhow '' .
`` We sure don't '' .
The bartender winked back at him and palmed the bill .
He turned away and returned in a moment with a pint of brandy in a small paper sack which he slid over the counter to Shayne .
As the detective slid it into his pocket , Rourke asked sadly , `` What in hell are you going to do , Mike '' ? ?
`` Make a couple of punk detectives named Geely and Harris wish to God they'd stayed out of my way this afternoon .
Three minutes , Tim '' .
Shayne strode out blithely , and Rourke checked his watch and sipped his drink , getting a dime ready to make the telephone call to the police .
Outside , Shayne hesitated when he saw that Rourke had parked his coupe directly in front of the bar headed south .
He walked over to the right-hand door , opened it and got the reloaded automatic out of the glove compartment and put it in his hip pocket .
He hoped he wouldn't be forced to use it in taking care of the Beach detectives , but its weight was comforting at his hip .
On this side of the Bay , Miami Beach cops had no more legal rights than any ordinary citizen , and Shayne's pistol permit was just as good as theirs .
He went swiftly up the sidewalk toward the parked car with the two Beach detectives in the front seat .
He tugged the brim of his hat low as he approached , stepped out into the street just behind the car and strode around to the right-hand side .
The big , paunchy man named Geely was on that side , half-turned in the seat toward his hatchet-faced companion so that his back partially rested against the closed door .
Shayne turned the handle and jerked the door open before either of the men were quite aware of his presence in the night .
Geely grunted and slid partly out , and Shayne's left arm snaked in around his neck to help him , while he set himself solidly on the roadway and swung his right fist to the big , gum-chewing jaw before Geely could straighten up .
Shayne stepped back to let him slump to the ground , and then dived over him through the open door into Harris who was cursing loudly and trying to drag a gun from a shoulder holster , somewhat impeded by the steering wheel .
Shayne locked his big hands around Harris' thin neck and dragged him out over the seat into the roadway .
He hit him once on the sharp point of his chin and felt the body go limp .
He dropped him into the street a couple of feet away from Geely's recumbent figure and stared down at both of them for a moment before kicking the big man lightly in the side .
He didn't stir .
They were both breathing heavily , out cold , and Shayne didn't think either of them had recognized him or could describe him .
He got the pint of liquor out of his pocket and unscrewed the top , sprinkled the pungent stuff liberally over both men , and then tossed the open bottle in on the front seat .
He turned , then , to look toward the lighted Boulevard , and saw Rourke's tall , emaciated figure come out of the lounge and hurriedly start to angle across the street toward the opposite side .
Shayne strolled across to intercept the reporter in front of the two-story house where Felice Perrin lived , and asked casually , `` Get the police okay '' ? ?
`` Sure .
Said they'd have a patrol car here fast .
Let's get inside .
What happened with you '' ? ?
`` Why the two damned fools got all excited when they saw the bottle , and knocked each other out cold '' , Shayne said good-humoredly .
`` They'll have fun explaining that to the Miami cops .
Got no business over here on a stake-out anyway '' .
They went up onto a front porch and into a small hallway where a dim bulb burned high in the ceiling .
A row of mailboxes along the wall had numbers and names on them .
Shayne found one marked Perrin Aj .
The stairway on the right was dark , but there was a wall-switch at the bottom which lighted another dim bulb at the top , and they went up .
There were two front rooms , both dark behind their transoms , and there was no sound or light in the entire house to indicate that any of the occupants were awake .
Eight , nine steps above him , Roberts had paused .
Mickey paused with him , waiting , no longer impatient , trying now to think it out , do a little planning .
He looked down over the banister at the hotel desk , with the telephone and pen set .
If I could call in , they could check the story while we were on our way .
I wouldn't have to tell them I had Roberts --
Then he heard it , like a muffled thud , felt a subtle change in air pressure .
He glanced up in time to see Roberts hurtling down on him from above , literally flying through the air , his bloody face twisted .
Mickey tried to flatten against the banister , gripped it with one hand , but Roberts' full weight struck him at that moment in the groin .
He gasped for air and the impact tore his hand from the rail .
He tumbled with Roberts , helpless and in agony , over and over , down the steps .
By a wrenching effort , he managed to hunch and draw in , to take the final fall on his back and shoulders rather than his head .
He was fuzzy in his mind and , for a moment , helpless on the lobby floor , but he was conscious , and free of the weight of Roberts' body .
When his vision cleared he saw the taller one scrambling upward , reaching .
Mickey was on his knees when Roberts turned on the stairs and the razor flashed in his hand .
He felt his empty pocket and knew that Roberts had retrieved the only weapon at hand .
Mickey's eyes fixed on the other's feet , which would first betray the moment and direction of an attack .
He rose stiffly , forcing his knees to lock .
The knifelike pain in his groin nearly brought him down again .
He made himself back off slowly , his eyes wary on Roberts , who now had no more to lose than he .
The pain dulled as he moved , and he steadied inside .
After a moment he extended one hand , the fingers curled .
`` Come on '' , he said .
`` You want to be that big a fool -- I was hoping for this '' .
Roberts brushed at his eyes with his free hand and started down the steps .
He held the razor well out to one side .
He was invulnerable to attack , but he could be handled , Mickey knew , if he could be brought to make the first move .
They were eight feet apart when Roberts cleared the last step .
Mickey waited with slack arms .
`` Any time , Roberts '' , he said .
`` Or would it be easier if I put my hands in my pockets '' ? ?
The taunt was lost on Roberts .
He advanced slowly , directly , giving no hint of a feint to either side .
He was just short of arm's reach when he stopped .
Mickey backed off two steps , forcing him to come on again .
There was a fixed grin on Roberts' face , made hideous by the swollen nose and the smeared blood .
Mickey backed off again and Roberts hesitated , then came along .
They moved in a series of rhythmic fits and starts , a macabre dance -- two steps back , two steps forward , two steps back .
Mickey felt his shoulders come up against the wall beside the heavy slab front door .
This was going to be it now , any second , and what he had to remember was to keep his eye on the razor , no matter what , even if Roberts should feint with a kick to the groin , the deadly hand was his exclusive concern .
The kick came , sudden and vicious but short .
Mickey's guts twisted with the effort , but he kept his eye on the weapon .
It moved in a silver arc toward his throat , then veered downward .
He hunched his left shoulder into it and slashed at Roberts' forearm with his own , felt the blade slide off his sleeve .
Before Roberts could move inside to cut upward toward his face , he slammed his right fist into Roberts' belly .
Roberts sagged and slashed at him wildly .
Ducking , Mickey tripped and fell to one side , landing heavily on the wood floor .
Then Roberts was on him , gasping for breath and for a couple of seconds Mickey lost sight of the blade .
He felt it rip at the side of his jacket and a momentary sting under his left ribs .
He got a knee up into Roberts' belly , used both hands and heaved him clear , then scrambled to his feet .
They were in the center of the lobby now .
Still clutching the razor , Roberts came up into a crouch , shaking his head .
When he charged Mickey was ready .
He hit Roberts with his left fist in the ribs and the razor cut toward him feebly , then wobbled in mid-air .
With his right fist , and nearly all his weight behind it , he smashed at the bloodstained face .
Roberts careened backward , his back arched , fought for balance and , failing , stumbled against the newel post at the foot of the stairs .
The sound of his head striking the solid wood was an ultimate , sudden-end sound .
He fell on his side across the lowest step , rolled over once , then lay still .
Mickey found himself leaning against the desk , with stiff hands , panting for breath .
After a minute he went to Roberts , looked at one of his eyes and felt for a pulse .
He couldn't feel any .
Roberts appeared to be dead ; ;
if not yet , then soon , very soon .
Suddenly it was cold in the lobby .
12
It seemed to him that a long time had passed before he decided what to do .
Actually it was no more than eight or ten minutes , and the sum of his reasoning came to this :
There's no way to take him in now and keep those other two -- Wister and the one who hired the two of them -- from finding out about Roberts and lamming out .
The local law here would hold me till they check clear back home , and maybe more than that .
They would have to .
By then they could never catch up with the others .
There's no other way ; ;
I'll have to do it myself .
He looked at where Roberts lay sprawled on the step .
Mickey was sure now he was dead .
One thing , he thought , nobody knows about it yet .
Only me .
He climbed the stairs , went into Roberts' room , found a suitcase and packed as much into it as he could .
He left a few things .
It didn't have to be perfect .
Roberts was a wastrel .
Walking away on impulse , he might logically leave behind what it was inconvenient to carry .
When he had closed the suitcase he found a rag and moved about the room , wiping carefully everything he might have touched .
It took him nearly an hour .
He went to the room he had rented and got into his overcoat .
He left the rest of his things and returned to the lobby .
He set Roberts' suitcase near the front door , went outside and walked back to the garage .
He was mildly surprised to find it was snowing .
It snowed softly , silently , an undulating interruption of his vision against the night sky .
He could feel it on his face and in his hair .
He found the key to the Jeep , got it started and warmed it up for five minutes .
Then he backed out and swung around to the front drive .
He went into the hotel and searched till he found the razor .
He put it in his own pocket for safekeeping .
He took the suitcase out to the Jeep and put it in the front seat .
Then he went back for Roberts .
The body was heavier than he had anticipated .
He got it onto his shoulder after some work and carried it outside and down to the Jeep .
He dumped it into the back and made sure it wouldn't roll out , then returned to the porch and closed the front door , making sure it was unlocked .
He drove carefully in the direction of the brief tour they had taken earlier .
It snowed continuously , but quietly , evenly .
When he reached the dip in the woods , he saw that already the earlier ruts were barely discernible .
The Jeep fought its way through the low spot and got onto higher ground .
He drove in low gear to the fork in the road and swung as close as possible to the entrance to the abandoned mine .
He parked facing it and left the headlights on , but when he started into the tunnel with the suitcase , he found the illumination extended no farther than half a dozen feet into the passage .
He went back and got the flashlight , returned to the tunnel and carried the suitcase to the edge of the pit he had found earlier .
He tossed the bag into the pit and watched dry dust spray up around it .
When the dust settled , he went back to the Jeep and carefully worked Roberts' body onto his shoulder .
It wasn't like carrying the suitcase .
The soft snow was deceitful underfoot .
Twice he nearly fell .
Inside the passage , he had to work his way over the fallen timber and nearly collapsed under his clumsy burden .
By the time he reached the edge of the pit he was panting and his shoulder and back ached under the drag of the dead weight .
He stood looking down for a few seconds , then backed up two or three paces from the edge .
There was too much weight casually to toss it away .
He could feel himself falling in with it and being unable to get out .
It would be a bad place to die .
It was a bad place for Roberts to wind up , but Roberts had asked for it .
It was too late to worry about that .
He knelt slowly and dumped the corpse onto the floor of the tunnel .
It was a relief to get rid of the weight .
He was shaking with tension and it took him a couple of minutes to get his breath and settle down .
Then he got on his knees and rolled Roberts' body toward the edge .
It hung momentarily on the point of dropping off .
He gave it a strong push , heard it slide , then tumble dryly into the hole .
He got to his feet and threw the flashlight beam into the pit .
The body lay in an awkward sprawl twelve or fifteen feet below the level of the tunnel floor .
Deep enough , he decided .
There was little chance anyone would enter this shaft during the winter .
The external signs of his approach to it would be covered by the snow , probably by the next day .
It wasn't cold enough in the tunnel to preserve the body intact .
By spring it would be a skeleton .
He made his way back to the Jeep .
He had started to back into the turn when he remembered the razor in his pocket .
He climbed down , went back into the tunnel and tossed the razor into the pit .
It landed on Roberts' sprawled right thigh , poised precariously , then slid off to the ground .
He went back once more to the Jeep and started the short drive to the hotel .
In the garage he checked the Jeep for signs of the use he had made of it .
There were stains here and there and he cleaned them off , using an oiled rag he found on a nail .
He wiped the steering wheel and all the places he might have touched the Jeep .
He replaced the flashlight where it had been stowed , got into his own car and backed it out of the garage .
There were tire marks where it had been , but they were overlapped by others and on the dusty floor would not be noticeable except under close scrutiny .
Liz Peabody , he thought , might spend some time grieving for her lost lover , but he doubted that she would launch an investigation .
He judged her to be a woman of some pride , though not much sense .
Still she would probably have sense enough not to call in the local sheriff to find her boy friend who , apparently , had run away .
He put in a call to Cunningham from his hotel room .
The maid answered and he decided Nancy must be at work .
Jeb cautioned him not to be too hopeful and then , ignoring his own advice , said excitedly , `` But it does sound good .
A woman named Lisa who tells nobody anything about herself .
That courtyard picture with the same initials '' .
`` I'm not exactly jumping up and down with enthusiasm .
I'll call you in a day or so '' .
On the highway he relaxed and enjoyed the drive over Lake Pontchartrain and along the coast .
Gulf Springs was ten miles inland -- more of a quaint old coast town than those along the beach made garish by tourist attractions .
He checked into a motel and drove downtown .
The courthouse was a white-stucco building minus the customary dome .
Instead of the usual straggling privet hedges and patches of bare dirt in most small-town squares , the building was hemmed in by a semitropical growth of camellias and azaleas and a smooth lawn the improbably bright-green shade of florist's grass .
He figured his best bet was a call on the sheriff .
A clerk in the outer office took him in to Sheriff Carruthers , a big , paunchy man with thick , white hair and a voice with a senatorial resonance which suggested he should be running for higher office .
Seated in front of the desk , Hank said , `` I'm looking for some information with very little to go on , Sheriff '' .
He explained the background of the case , ending with the tenuous clue which had brought him to Gulf Springs .
The sheriff's swivel chair tilted back .
`` So you're looking for a woman who married a man who might have lived here a year ago and might have been poisoned .
If there was such a person , I'm afraid she got away with it .
Pity we don't know more about him .
I think the best bet is to go through the society columns of last year and see if any of the grooms match with the obituaries a little later .
It'll be a tedious job , but if you want to try it , the old newspaper files are in the basement here in the county supervisor's office '' .
`` Maybe the society editor would remember a good-looking out-of-town bride '' .
`` That's an idea .
Mrs. Calhoun has been society editor here for twenty-five years .
The editor says that marriages may be made in heaven , but weddings are made in Mrs. Calhoun's columns .
She's the one who decides which wedding is to get the lead space in the Sunday paper and all that '' .
He smiled .
`` Once , when the editor was just out of the hospital from a gallstone operation , Mrs. Calhoun and the mother of the bride went out to his house and fought it out beside his bed .
She'd be sure to remember any bride who was vague about background .
She'd have made a great scientist dedicated to tracking down heredity and environment .
She'd also remember if the groom died later '' .
He stood up .
`` I wish you good luck , but please don't dig up too tough a case for me this close to election .
If you find out anything , come on back here and we'll get started on it '' .
Tracking down Mrs. Calhoun was like trying to catch up with Paul Revere between Lexington and Concord .
It turned out that she also sold real estate , cosmetics , and hospital insurance .
The wearying trek stretched into the afternoon -- from newspaper plant to insurance office to her house and back to the newspaper , where he found her at five o'clock .
She was a large woman with a frizzled gray poodle cut and a pencil clamped like a bit between her teeth while she hunted and pecked on an old typewriter .
It took a couple of minutes to run through her various businesses and get down to the one he wanted .
`` Last year ? ?
Well , I do remember one .
From Baton Rouge .
Married a man named Vincent Black .
I remember her because she didn't want her picture in the paper .
First bride like that I've seen in twenty-five years '' .
`` What reason did she give '' ? ?
`` Said she had a breaking-out on her face -- some sort of allergy -- and none of her old pictures was good enough .
I didn't see her till several days later at the wedding , and her face looked like it had never had a blemish on it .
But , of course , you couldn't see too well through the veil '' .
`` Was her name Lisa Carmody '' ? ?
`` Now how in hell would I remember that '' ? ?
`` Never mind .
I can look it up .
Do they still live here '' ? ?
`` I think they moved away shortly after they were married .
He was a salesman for something or other and must have been transferred .
I'm sure it'll be in the files .
We usually run a social note when somebody moves away '' .
He stood up and thanked her .
`` Have they inherited some money or something '' ? ?
She asked with a reportorial gleam in her eye .
He said vaguely , `` Well , it is a little legal matter , but nothing like that '' .
He hurried across to the courthouse and caught the sheriff just as he was leaving .
`` Sounds like what you're after '' , he said when Hank had finished .
`` Come on , let's hurry down before they lock up for the day '' .
In the basement the sheriff took him to a small , dingy office occupied by a tall , thin man informal in rolled-up shirt sleeves .
`` Mr. Ferrell Hirey Lindsay , chairman of the board of supervisors .
Mr. Ferrell is a private detective , Hirey .
Wants to look up something in the newspaper files , so don't lock him in here '' .
`` Sure '' , said Hirey .
`` I'll just leave the door open .
It latches when you close it , so stay as long as you like '' .
Carruthers crossed the room to a metal door with an open grillework in the top half .
He pulled it open .
`` Now don't shut this door .
It won't open from inside .
Before we built the new jail , we used to keep prisoners in here overnight sometimes when the old jail got too crowded .
Hirey treats himself a lot better than we do prisoners .
They were a sight more comfortable than the ones in the jail with the cold air from Hirey's air conditioner coming through the grille '' .
He walked past the sheriff into a windowless room with shelves full of big , leather-bound volumes from floor to ceiling all around the walls .
A metal table and four chairs stood in the center .
`` They're all here , back to 1865 '' , Carruthers told him .
`` It's all right to smoke , but make sure your cigarettes are out before you leave .
And , of course , you know not to take clippings '' .
`` I'll leave the air conditioner on for you , Mr. Ferrell '' , said Hirey .
`` Don't forget to turn it off and close the door good so it'll latch '' .
Hank thanked them and promised to observe the rules .
When they had gone , he stood for a minute breathing in the mustiness of old paper and leather which the busily thrumming air conditioner couldn't quite dispel .
Chapter fourteen
In a tour around the stacks , he found that the earliest volumes began on the left and progressed clockwise around the room .
An old weakness for burrowing in records rose up to tempt him .
It was , indeed , all here -- almost a century .
From reconstruction to moon rockets .
But he pulled away from the irrelevant old volumes and walked around to the newer ones .
Last year's volume was at the top a couple of inches below the ceiling .
Near it was a metal ladder on casters attached to the top shelf .
He pulled it over , climbed up , and lifted out the big volume , almost losing his balance from the weight of it .
He staggered over and dropped it on the table .
Since Mrs. Calhoun remembered only that the marriage had been in the spring , he started to plod through several months .
He tried to turn right to the society page in each one , but interesting stories kept cropping up to distract him .
At last he found it in the paper of April 2 .
It told him little more than Mrs. Calhoun had remembered , stating that it had been a small , modest wedding compared to some of the others .
There was a marked contrast in the amount of information on bride and groom .
Mr. Black's life was an open book , so to speak , from his birth in Jackson , Mississippi , through his basketball-playing days at L.S.U. and his attainment of a B.A. degree , which had presumably prepared him for his career as district sales manager for Peerless Business Machines .
The one line on the bride said she was Miss Lisa Carmody from Baton Rouge .
No mention of New Orleans .
Hank was beginning to feel sharp concern for Mr. Black .
If Mrs. Black was who he thought she was , Mr. Black's Peerless selling days might well be over .
Now for their exodus from Gulf Springs .
This time the search took twice as long , cutting down on his extra reading , for he had to pick through several columns of one- and two-line social notes in each issue .
He found it in the edition of May 15 .
The item said Mr. and Mrs. Black had moved to Jackson , his home town -- so the lovely Lisa had been with him a year ago .
Next on his program was a call to the Jackson office of Peerless Business Machines to find out if Vincent Black was still with them -- or , more specifically , still with us .
He glanced at his watch , saw it was only seven , and decided to indulge his weakness now .
For the next hour he scrambled happily up and down the ladder , sharing the excitement of reporters who had seen McKinley's assassination , the Iroquois Theater fire in Chicago , and the Hall-Mills trial .
In the middle of the stock market crash , he heard a slight noise in the outer office .
He turned around , saw nothing , and decided it must be a mouse .
Something else distracted him , yet there was no sound , only tomblike silence .
Then he knew it was not sound , but lack of it .
The air conditioner was no longer running .
He jumped up and turned around to see the metal door closing .
It clanged shut as he sprang toward it .
He pressed his face against the grille .
`` Who's there '' ? ?
The light shining through the grille dimly illumined the office beyond -- enough for him to see there was no one there .
Then he heard the outer door closing .
`` Hey , come back '' , he shouted .
He thought it must be some damn janitor or cleaning woman puttering around , figuring that Hirey had gone off and forgotten to turn off everything and lock up .
Then the faint beginnings of fear stirred in his mind .
Unless he was stone-blind , the person who'd just left couldn't have missed seeing Hank through the open door of the brightly lighted room .
And even if he'd somehow missed seeing him , he wouldn't have gone off and left the light on and door open in the file room .
Whoever it was had meant to shut him up in here , had followed him and waited till the courthouse and square were deserted .
But why ? ?
To search his room at the motel ? ?
To come back later and kill him after the stores had closed around the square and everybody had left ? ?
No , they could kill him just as easy right now .
Nobody could hear what was going on in this underground vault .
Then he heard it and smelled it -- the steady hissing , the dread , familiar pungency of gas escaping .
It must be coming from an upright heater against the far wall in the supervisors' office .
Until now , Lilac Gaylor and Lila Kingsley had been like an anagram which he could unscramble at his own pace and choosing .
Except for those minutes in her room , he had lost touch with her as a reality .
Gaylor's obsession and Cunningham's chimera-chasing reminiscences had mesmerized him into thinking of Lila and Lilac , separately or together , as a legend .
They kept drifting apart and merging again in his mind like some minute form of life on a microscope slide .
`` Well '' -- said Mr. Skyros .
`` I take a little time to think it over '' .
It was awkward : very awkward .
There would be all the nuisance of contacting someone else to take over .
Someone reasonably trustworthy .
And Angie would hear about it .
And Angie knew --
`` Time '' , said Angie , and he smiled very sweet and slow at Mr. Skyros .
`` Not too much time , because I'll be needing some more myself pretty much right away .
And I done favors for you , big favor not so long back , didn't I , and I'm right here to take on where Pretty left off .
No trouble .
I don't want no trouble , you don't want no trouble , nobody wants trouble , Mr. Skyros '' .
Dear heaven , no , thought Mr. Skyros , turning away as another man came in .
He straightened his tie at the mirror with a shaking hand ; ;
the genial smile seemed painted on his face .
Angie knew -- Speak of dangerous information ! !
Angie knew too much entirely already .
Really he had Mr. Skyros at bay
`` Big favor I done you .
Acourse there's this deal o' Denny's -- and Jackie's -- kinda hangin' fire , ain't it , maybe you've been kinda worryin' over that .
And can't say I blame you '' , said Angie thoughtfully .
`` This deal with the ace o' spades .
Anything to do with an ace o' spades , bad luck '' .
Ace of spades -- a widow , that was what they called a widow , these low-class crooks remembered Mr. Skyros distractedly .
All about that Angie knew , too .
When things got a little out of hand , they very rapidly got a lot out of hand -- it seemed to be a general rule .
All just by chance , and in a way tracing back to poor Frank , all of it , because naturally -- brothers , living together -- and Angie --
Mr. Skyros did not at all like the look on Angelo's regular-featured , almost girlishly good-looking face -- or indeed anything about Angelo .
Mr. Skyros was not a man who thought very much about moral principles ; ;
he found money much more interesting ; ;
but all the same he thought now , uneasily , of the way in which Angelo earned his living -- and paid for his own stuff -- and eyed the soft smile , and the spaniel-like dark eyes , and he felt a little ill .
`` Look , my friend '' , he said , `` in my life I learn , how is it the proverb says , better an ounce of prevention to a pound of cure .
I stay in business so long because I'm careful .
Two weeks , a month , we talk it over again , and maybe if nothing happens meanwhile to say the cops know this and that , then we make a little deal , isn't it '' ? ?
`` That's a long while '' , said Angie .
`` I tell you , you want to leave it that way , I don't fool around with it .
I go over to Castro and get fixed up there .
I can't wait no two weeks '' .
And Mr. Skyros didn't like Angie , but what with Prettyman and three of his boys inside , and not likely to come out -- And Angie such a valuable salesman , Prettyman said -- All the nuisance and danger of getting in touch with practically a whole new bunch of boys -- Why did everything have to happen at once ? ?
Denny said stupidly , `` Why , you ain't turning Angie down , are you , Mr. Skyros ? ?
I mean , we all figured -- I guess anybody'd figure -- Angie '' --
Angelo gave him an affectionate smile .
`` Mr. Skyros too smart a fellow want to get rid of me '' , he said .
`` It's O.K. , Denny , everything's O.K. Ain't it , Mr. Skyros '' ? ?
Oh , God , the name repeated over and over , anybody to hear -- Not being a fool , Mr. Skyros knew why .
But aside from everything else , it would scarcely be pleasant to have dealings with one who was nominally an underling and actually held -- you could say -- the whip hand .
And all because of Domokous ! !
If Mr. Skyros had dreamed of all the trouble that young man would eventually cause --
Of course , there was another factor .
Angie worth his weight in gold right now , but these users , they sometimes went down fast .
Who knew , Angie might not last long .
The sweat broke out on Mr. Skyros' forehead as he realized he had been actually thinking -- hoping -- planning -- perhaps --
Good God above , had not Domokous been enough ? ?
He patted Angelo's thin shoulder paternally .
`` Now you don't want to go talking that way '' , he said .
`` Sure , sure , you're the one take over for Pretty , soon as I get the supply , get started up again , isn't it ? ?
You don't need worry , Angelo .
I tell you , I know how it is with you , my friend , I sympathize , and I'll make it a special point -- a special favor -- get in touch , and get some stuff just for you .
I don't know if I can manage it tonight or tomorrow , but I'll try my best , my friend .
You see , you got to remember , we all got schedules , like any business ! !
My man , he won't be around a little while , he just fixed me up with this stuff they took out of the Elite .
It's awkward , you see that , isn't it '' ? ?
`` Well , that's your business , Mr. Skyros '' , said Angie , and his dreamy eyes moved past Mr. Skyros' shoulder to gaze vaguely out the ground-glass window .
`` I appreciate it , you do that .
Sure .
We don't none of us want no trouble .
I'm in a room over the Golden Club on San Pedro , you just ask for me there , you want see me .
Or maybe I call you -- tonight ? ?
About nine o'clock , I call and see if you got any .
A couple decks for me , Mr. Skyros -- and ten-twelve to sell , see , I like to have a little ready cash '' .
`` Oh , now , I don't know about that much '' , said Mr. Skyros .
`` And you know , Angelo , Pretty , he always keeps it a strict cash basis , like they say '' --
`` Sure '' , said Angie .
`` Sure , Mr. Skyros .
Fifty a throw , that the deal ? ?
Sure .
I bring you the cash , say five hundred for ten decks .
Never mind how much I cut it , how much I get '' , and he smiled his sleepy smile again .
`` Standard deal , Mr. Skyros .
You go 'n' have a look round for it '' .
`` I do my best '' , said Mr. Skyros earnestly , `` just for you , my friend .
This is awkward for everybody , isn't it , we all got to put up with inconvenience sometimes .
But I do my best for you '' .
He got out of there in a hurry , brushing past another man in the door , mopping his brow .
The expedient thing -- yes , very true , one must make do as one could , in some situations .
It could all be straightened out later .
Not very much later , but when things had settled down a little .
After this deal with the Bouvardier woman went through .
An ace of spades .
He was not a superstitious man , but he felt perhaps there was a little something in that , indeed .
He rather wished he had never got into the business , and still -- scarcely to be resisted , a nice little profit with not much work involved , easy money
Katya Roslev , who would be Katharine Ross so very soon now , rang up her first sale of the day and counted back the change .
She did not notice that the customer seized her purchase and turned away without a smile or a word of thanks .
Usually she marked the few who did thank you , you didn't get that kind much in a place like this : and she played a little game with herself , seeing how downright rude she could act to the others , before they'd take offense , threaten to call the manager .
Funny how seldom they did : used to it , probably .
The kind who came into a cheap store like this ! !
Grab , snatch , I saw that first ! !
And , Here , I'll take this , I was before her , you wait on me now or I don't bother with it , see ! !
This kind of place
She'd be through here , just no time at all -- leave this kind of thing 'way behind .
Off at noon , and she'd never come back .
Never have to .
Money -- a lot of money , enough .
She'd be smart about it , get him to give it to her in little bills so's nobody would suspect -- maybe couldn't get it until Monday account of that , the banks -- But that wasn't really long to wait .
Not when she'd waited so long already .
No need say anything at all to the old woman .
She had it all planned out , how she'd do .
She'd say she didn't feel good on Sunday , couldn't go to church -- there'd be a little argument , but she could be stubborn -- and when the old woman had gone , quick pack the things she'd need to take , all but the dress she'd wear Monday , and take the bag down to that place in the station where you could put things in a locker overnight , for a dime .
Then on Monday morning -- or it might have to be Tuesday -- get up and leave just the usual time , and last thing , put the money in an envelope under the old woman's purse there in the drawer .
She wouldn't be going to get that for an hour or so after Katya had left , go do the daily shopping .
No need leave a note with it , either -- or maybe just something like , Don't worry about me , I'm going away to make a better life .
A better life .
Escape .
It wasn't as if she wanted much .
She didn't mind working hard , not as if she figured to do anything wrong to live easy and soft -- all she wanted was a chance , where she wasn't marked as what she was .
To be Katharine Ross , and work in a nicer shop somewhere , at a little more money so she could have prettier clothes , and learn ladies' manners and all like that , and get to know different people than up to now , not just the ones like her here , with foreign-sounding names , the ones went to the same church and -- Different place , different job , different people , she'd be all different too .
Prettier , she'd do her hair another way ; ;
smarter , and wear different kinds of clothes -- she'd be Katharine Ross , just what that sounded like .
`` You've give me the wrong change '' , said the customer sharply .
`` Think I can't count '' ? ?
Katya made up the amount in indifferent silence .
She was listening to other voices , out of the future .
Some of those vaguely-imagined new , different people .
Oh , Katharine's awfully nice , and pretty too , I like Katharine -- Let's ask Katharine to go with us , she's always lots of fun -- Katharine --
Soon , very soon now
sixteen
Mendoza didn't wake until nearly nine-thirty .
It was going to be another hot day ; ;
already the thermometer stood close to ninety .
Alison was still sound asleep ; ;
he made fresh coffee and searched through all the desk drawers for more cigarettes before thinking of her handbag , and found a crumpled stray cigarette at its bottom , which tasted peculiarly of face powder .
He left a note propped on the desk asking her to call him sometime today , and drove home .
After he'd got out fresh liver for Bast , he paused to look at her crouched daintily over her dish .
Surely she was just a trifle fatter around the middle ? ?
He seemed to remember reading somewhere that Abyssinians had large litters , and suffered a dismaying vision of the apartment overrun with a dozen kittens .
`` Y que sigue despues ? ?
-- What then '' ? ?
He asked her severely .
`` A lot of people are so peculiar that they don't like cats , it's not the easiest thing in the world to find good homes for kittens -- and , damn it , you know very well if I have them around long , impossible to give them away ! !
And I suppose now that you've finally grown up , if a little late , you'd go on producing kittens every six months or so .
Yes , well , it's a pity to spoil your girlish figure -- which all those kittens would do anyway -- but I think when you've raised these we'll just have the vet fix it so there won't be any more .
I wonder if the Carters would take one .
And it's no good looking at me like that '' , as she wound affectionately around his ankles .
Maude's long nose unexpectedly wrinkled up .
`` Happened to be in the hall ! !
Happened to hear you quarrel about her ! !
Oh , well , you can't really blame Lolotte .
She lost her beau to you '' .
But she was talking of Emile when she saw the black line of the open door ; ;
Sarah remembered it clearly .
Maude went on .
`` I've got to get busy .
Miss Celie's taken to her bed , with the door locked .
She opened it an inch and poked out the keys for me to give you .
Here '' -- She thrust a bundle of keys strung on a thick red cord into Sarah's hand .
`` Not that there's much use in locking up the smokehouse and the storehouse now .
Drink your coffee '' --
coffee .
`` It's -- cold '' .
Maude suddenly looked quite capable of pouring it down her throat .
`` I don't want it '' , Sarah said , firmly .
`` Oh .
Well -- I'll take it down with me as I go '' .
Maude swooped up the cup and hiked up her top hoop as if about to take off with a racing start .
At the door she turned back , her Roman nose looking very long now and satiric .
`` I forgot .
Ben and Lucien have gone after them .
It's just like that book your Northern friend wrote -- except there aren't any ice floes to cross and no bloodhounds '' .
`` I don't know Mrs. Stowe .
What can they do if they find them '' ? ?
`` They can't do anything .
It's silly , childish , running after them like that .
I told Ben so .
But of course the paterollers won't be of any help , not with everything so upset and that Yankee cavalry outfit they say is running around , God knows where '' .
She had swished away , she had been gone for a long time probably when Sarah suddenly realized that she ought to stop her , pour out the coffee , so no one would drink it .
But then the so-called coffee was bad enough at best , cold it was all but undrinkable -- especially that cup ! !
She was deeply , horribly sure that Lucien had filled it with opium .
She had quarreled with Lucien , she had resisted his demands for money -- and if she died , by the provisions of her marriage contract , Lucien would inherit legally not only the immediate sum of gold under the floorboards in the office , but later , when the war was over , her father's entire estate .
She felt cold and hot , sticky and chilly at the same time .
Now wait a minute , she told herself , think about it ; ;
Lucien is not the only person in this house who could have put opium in that coffee .
She had lost a bottle of opium -- but that was on the trip from New Orleans .
Or someone had taken it during her first day at Honotassa .
Yes , she had missed it after her talk with Emile , after dinner , just before Emile was shot .
Rilly or Glendora had entered her room while she slept , bringing back her washed clothes .
So somebody else could have come in , too -- then or later while she was out of the room .
It would have been easy to identify as opium by its odor .
It was not very reasonable to believe that Lucien had procured unprocurable opium and come back to Honotassa with a formed plan to murder her .
He didn't even know that she was there .
And he certainly couldn't have guessed that she would resist his demand for the gold or that she was not the yielding -- yes , and credible fool he had every right to expect .
No , he had been surprised , unpleasantly surprised , but surprised .
Then somebody else ? ?
Don't question , Rev had said , don't invite danger .
Her skin crawled : Lolotte had told Maude that she was in the hall and the door was open .
Sarah had begun to tell Lucien of Emile , she had begun to question and a little draft had crept across the room from the bedroom door , open barely enough to show a rim of blackness in the hall .
So Lolotte -- or anybody -- could have listened , and that somebody could have already been supplied with the missing bottle of opium .
That was not reasonable either .
The opium had disappeared before Emile's death and whoever shot him could not by any stretch of the imagination have foreseen Sarah's own doubts and suspicions -- and questions .
She began to doubt whether there had been in fact a lethal dose of opium in the cup .
So suppose somebody only wished to frighten her , so she would leave Honotassa ! !
That made a certain amount of logic .
Added to the argument was the fact that while she might have tasted the coffee if it had been still hot , she might even have drunk some of it , she wouldn't have taken enough to kill her , for she would have been warned by its taste .
No .
It was merely an attempt to frighten her .
She wouldn't go back to New York as Maude suggested ; ;
she wouldn't run like a scared cat .
But -- well , she'd be very careful .
She dressed and the accustomed routine restored to her a sense of normal everyday life .
But before she left her room she dug into her big moire bag , took out the envelope holding her marriage contract and the wax seal had been broken .
So somebody else knew what would happen to her father's money if she died .
Rev had known all along .
Rev didn't need to break the wax seal , read the contract and find out .
He could conceivably have wished to make sure ; ;
Rev loved Honotassa , it was like a part of his breath and body ; ;
Rev had stressed the need for money .
Rev would never have tried to give her poison ! !
She thrust the envelope back in the bag ; ;
there was no point in locking it up in the armoire now , it was like locking the barn after the horse was stolen .
And in all likelihood , by now , there was more than one person in the house who knew the terms of her marriage contract .
There was no point either in telling herself again what a fool she'd been .
She went downstairs and received another curious shock , for when Glendora flapped into the dining room in her homemade moccasins , Sarah asked her when she had brought coffee to her room and Glendora said she hadn't .
`` Too much work this morning , Miss Sarah -- everybody gone like that '' --
Sarah swallowed past another kind of constriction in her throat .
`` Well , then who brought it '' ? ?
`` Miss Maude .
She come to the kitchen and say she take it up to you '' .
Glendora put down a dish of lukewarm rice .
`` Not much breakfast this morning .
I don't know what we're going to do , Miss Sarah '' .
`` We've got to eat '' , Sarah said , curtly , because a chill crawled over her again .
Maude ? ?
Glendora flapped away .
The rice wasn't dosed with opium , indeed it had no taste at all , not a grain of salt .
She ate what she could and went out along the covered passageway , with the rain dripping from the vines .
In the kitchen Glendora was despairingly picking chickens .
`` Get a basket '' , Sarah told her .
`` We'll go to the storehouse '' .
Glendora dropped a chicken and a flurry of feathers , and went with her through the drizzle , to the storehouse .
Sarah found the right key and unlocked the door .
It was a long , low room , like a root cellar , for it was banked up with soil , and vines had run rampant over that , too .
It was dark but dry and cool .
She doled out what Glendora vaguely guessed were the right amounts of dried peas , eggs , cornmeal , a little salt .
The shelves looked emptier than when Miss Celie had shown her the storeroom , and since the men from the Commissary had called ; ;
there were certainly now fewer mouths to feed but there was less to feed them with .
She took Glendora to the smokehouse , unlocked it and saw with satisfaction there was still a quantity of hams and sides of bacon , hanging from the smoke-stained rafters .
They wouldn't go hungry , not yet .
And the fields were green and growing .
`` Can't you possibly imagine what life is going to be like , here '' ? ?
Maude had said .
Maude .
She sent Glendora back to the house , her basket and her apron laden .
She stood for a moment , rain dripping from the trees over her head , thinking of Maude .
Maude had the opportunity to take the bottle of opium from Sarah's room .
Maude had the cool ruthlessness to do whatever she made up her mind to do .
She couldn't see how her death could affect Maude .
She couldn't see any reason why Maude would attempt to frighten her .
Besides , there was something hysterical and silly , something almost childish about an attempt to frighten her .
Maude was neither hysterical nor silly and Sarah rather doubted if she had ever been childish .
Yet Maude had suggested that Sarah return to New York .
Maude could have shot Emile -- if she'd had a reason to kill him .
There was no use in standing there in the drizzle , trying to find a link between Emile's murder and opium in a cup of coffee .
She started back for the house , saw a light in the office , opened the door and surprised a domestic little scene which was far outside the dark realm of murder or attempted murder .
Rev , George and Lolotte were mending shoes .
A lighted lamp stood on the table that dusky , drizzling day .
They were all three bent over a shabby riding boot ; ;
George had a tack hammer .
Lolotte held a patch of leather , Rev steadied something , a tiny brad , waiting for George's poised hammer .
George said , `` First thing I do when I get to Vicksburg again , is get me a Yankee '' --
`` With boots on '' , Lolotte laughed softly .
Rev looked up and saw her .
Lolotte looked up and stiffened .
George didn't look up at all .
There was no way to know , no way to guess whether any one of them was surprised at Sarah's appearance , believing her to be drugged and senseless -- and just possibly dead .
Rev said , `` Come in , Sarah .
Reckon you know the news '' .
And what news , Sarah thought as satirically as Maude might have said it .
Rev's face was suddenly a little fixed and questioning .
He turned to George and Lolotte .
`` Take your cobbler's shop somewhere else .
I want to talk to Sarah '' .
Everything in the office , the spreading circle of lamplight , the patch of leather in Lolotte's hands .
George poised with the tack hammer , the homely , everyday atmosphere , all denied an attempt at murder .
A rush of panic caught Sarah .
`` No .
Not now .
I mean I've got to -- to see to the kitchen .
Glendora '' --
Her words jumbled together and she all but ran from the office and from the question in Rev's face .
Now why did I do that ? ?
She thought as warm , drizzling rain touched her face .
She was no schoolgirl , refusing to bear tales .
As she reached the kitchen door the answer presented itself ; ;
if she told anyone of the opium it must be Lucien , her husband .
It might be , indeed it had already proved to be a marriage without love , but it was marriage .
So she couldn't choose Rev as a confidant ; ;
it must be Lucien .
Always provided that Lucien himself had not dosed her coffee with opium , she thought , as coldly and sharply , again , as Maude might have said it .
She paused at the kitchen door , caught her breath , told herself firmly that the opium was only an attempt to frighten her and went into the kitchen , where Glendora was eyeing the chickens dismally and Maude was cleaning lamp chimneys .
Glendora gave a gulp .
`` Miss Sarah , I can't cut up no chicken .
Miss Maude say she won't '' .
Again the homely , everyday details of daily living refuted a vicious attempt to frighten her -- or to murder her .
The homely everyday details of living and domestic requirements also pressed upon her with their immediate urgency .
No matter what had happened or hadn't happened , somebody had to see about dinner .
She eyed the chickens with , if she had known it , something of Glendora's dismal look and thought with a certain fury of the time she had spent on Latin verbs .
`` Not since last night .
I didn't think there was any reason to '' .
`` Maybe there isn't .
Speak to him again anyway .
Try talking to some of the fellows he works with , friends , anyone .
Try to find out how happy he is with his wife , whether he plays around with women .
You might try looking into his wife too .
She might have been talking to some of her friends about her husband if they've been having any trouble '' .
`` You think Black's the one we're looking for '' ? ?
`` Yeah .
I think he might be '' , Conrad said grimly .
`` Then again he might not '' .
`` What a stinking world '' , Rourke said .
`` Black is Gilborn's best friend '' .
`` I know '' .
`` Will you be coming back soon '' ? ?
`` I think so .
I'm on my way to see the Jacobs woman '' .
`` Gilborn's secretary ? ?
What for ? ?
You don't think Gilborn is the -- '' ? ?
`` I don't think anything .
I just don't want to go off half-cocked before picking up Black , that's all '' .
Conrad interrupted .
`` Gilborn says he was in his office all day with her yesterday .
I'd like to make sure .
Also , it's just possible she might know something about Mrs. Gilborn '' .
`` Right .
I'll see you later '' .
`` Aren't you ever going to go home '' ? ?
`` It sure as hell doesn't look like it , does it ? ?
I'm telling you , if these corpses ever knew the trouble they put us to , they'd think twice before letting themselves get knocked off '' .
`` Remember to tell that to the next corpse you meet '' .
Conrad hung up and sat on the small telephone-booth bench , massaging his right leg .
He looked at his watch .
It was ten minutes before eleven .
He wondered how long it would be before they had a signed confession from Lionel Black .
Thirty years' experience let him know , even at this early stage , that Black was his man .
But he still wanted to know why .
It was a cold , windy day , the day after Kitti's death , but Stanley Gilborn paid no attention to the blustery October wind .
After leaving Conrad , Gilborn had no destination .
He simply walked , not noticing where he was , not caring .
He stopped automatically at the street corners , waiting for the traffic lights to change , unheeding of other people , his coat open and flapping .
As he walked , he tried to think .
Of Kitti .
Of himself .
Mainly of what Conrad had tried to make him believe .
There was nothing coherent about his thinking .
It was a succession of picture-images passing through his mind : the same ones , different ones , in no apparent sequence , in no logical succession .
The enormity of what Conrad had told him made it impossible for Gilborn to accept , with any degree of realism , the actuality of it .
Conrad's words had intellectual meaning for him only .
Emotionally , they penetrated him not at all .
Whoever he was and your wife were intimate .
Gilborn remembered Conrad's exact words .
They made sense and yet they didn't .
He knew Conrad had told him the truth .
It was so .
Yet it wasn't so .
It wasn't so because it couldn't be so .
When Kitti was alive -- and he remembered the pressure of her hand resting lightly on his arm -- she had been the center of his life .
She was the sun , he the closest planet orbiting around her , the rest of the world existing and visible yet removed .
For fifty-five years he had lived , progressing towards a no-goal , eating , working , breathing without plan , without reason .
Kitti had come along to justify everything .
She was his goal , she was his reason .
He had lived all his life waiting for her .
Not once , in the time that he had known her , had he ever considered the possibility , not once , not for one one-thousandth of a second , of her infidelity .
He could not consider it now .
Not really .
And so he walked , aimless again .
The walk ended , inevitably , right in front of his hotel building .
The doorman began to nod his head automatically , then remembered who Gilborn was , what had happened to him the night before .
He looked at Gilborn with undisguised curiosity .
Gilborn passed by him without seeing him .
He crossed the lobby and rode up in the elevator lost in his own thoughts .
In the apartment itself , all was still .
The police were no longer there .
There was no evidence that anything was different than it had been .
Except that Kitti wasn't there .
Without taking off his coat , he sat in the blue chair which still faced the closed bedroom door .
At last , sitting there , in the familiar surroundings , the truth began to sink in .
Who ? ?
He felt no anger towards Kitti , no sense that she had betrayed him .
Who ? ?
She was all he had , everything he had , everything he wanted .
Someone had taken her away from him .
Who ? ?
Where there is a left-hand entry in the ledger , there is a right-hand one , he remembered from his school days .
Where there is a victim , there is a killer .
Who ? ?
Whoever he was and your wife were intimate .
He rose from the chair , took off his coat .
Quickly , he went into the bedroom .
The bed still showed signs of where Kitti had lain .
Gilborn stood there for a long time .
He looked at the bed unblinkingly .
The bed was empty now .
Kitti would lie in it no more .
He would lie in it no more .
Gilborn wondered whether Kitti had lain in that same bed with Who ? ?
For thirty minutes , Stanley Gilborn stood there .
At the end of the half-hour , racking his brains , thinking over and over again of Kitti , her friends , her past , he left the bedroom .
Who ? ?
He could think of no answer .
Gilborn put on his coat again .
Before leaving , he took one last , lingering look at the apartment .
He knew he would never see it again .
In the street , walking as quickly as he could , Stanley Gilborn was a lone figure .
On Blanche Jacobs , Kitti Gilborn's death had a quite different effect .
For Blanche , Kitti's death was a source of guilty , but nonetheless soaring , happy hope .
In Blanche's defense , it must be said she was unaware of the newborn hope .
If anyone had asked her , she would have described herself only as nervous and worried .
The figures on the worksheet paper in front of her were jumping and waving around so badly it was all she could do to make them out clearly enough to copy them with the typewriter .
She wondered whether Stanley would call .
She wanted to be with him , to give him the comfort and companionship she knew he needed .
She had skipped her lunch hour in the fear that he might call while she was out .
He hadn't .
And now she was feeling sick , both from concern about Stanley and hunger .
Why hadn't he called ? ?
Men , she reflected , even men like Stanley , are unpredictable .
She tried to think of his unpredictable actions in the eleven years she had known him and discovered they weren't so many after all .
Stanley really was quite predictable .
That was one of the things she liked about Stanley .
He wasn't like so many other men .
The dentist last night , for instance .
Dinner and the movies had been fine .
He had taken her upstairs to say good night .
She had invited him in for coffee .
It was in the kitchen , as she was watching the kettle , waiting for the water to boil , that he had grabbed for her .
Without warning , without giving her a chance to prepare for it .
From behind , he had put his arms on her shoulders , turned her around , and pressed her to him , so close she couldn't breathe .
Later , she apologized for the long scratch across his face , tried to explain she couldn't help herself , that the panic arose in her unwanted .
But he hadn't understood .
When he left , she knew she would never see him again .
Stanley wasn't like that .
She could always predict what Stanley was going to do , ever since she first met him .
Except for that one morning .
The morning he walked in to announce to her , blushing , that he was married .
She thought she was going to die .
She had assumed before then that one day he would ask her to marry him .
Blanche couldn't remember when she had first arrived at this conclusion .
She thought it was sometime during the second week she worked for Stanley .
It was nothing that he said or did , but it seemed so natural to her that she should be working for him , looking forward to his eventual proposal .
She was thirty-one years old then .
Her mother was already considerably concerned over her daughter's future .
But Blanche had been able to maintain a serene and assured composure in the face of her widowed mother's continued carping , had been able to resist her urgings to date anyone who offered the slightest possibility of matrimony .
For Blanche , it was only a matter of time before Stanley would propose .
It was to be expected that Stanley would be shy , slow in taking such a momentous step .
Stanley went along in life , she knew , convinced that he deserved the love and faith of no woman .
As a result , he never looked for it .
But one day , she expected , he would somehow discover , without her having to tell him , that there was such a woman in the world ; ;
a woman who was willing to give him love , faith , and anything else a woman could give a husband .
Indeed , there was a woman who , unasked , had already given him love .
Unquestionably , Blanche loved Stanley .
And then , unexpectedly , Stanley made his announcement .
On that first day , Blanche literally thought she was going to die , or , at the very least , go out of her mind .
It might have been easier for her if Kitti Walker hadn't been everything that Blanche was not .
Kitti was thirty years younger than Stanley , taller than Stanley , prettier than Stanley had any right to hope for , much less expect .
Kitti could have married a score of men .
There was no reason for her to marry someone like Stanley Gilborn , there was no need for her to marry Stanley .
Kitti had come into the office , on somebody's recommendation , because she needed help in preparing her income tax return .
Stanley had filled out the return and because , when he was finished , it was close to the lunch hour , he had politely asked Kitti to join him , never expecting her to accept .
Blanche knew all this because the door to Stanley's office was open and , without straining too hard , she could hear everything that was said .
Stanley had gone out , saying he would be back in an hour .
He hadn't come back for over two .
After that day , Blanche still didn't know exactly what had happened .
There were mornings when Stanley came in late , afternoons when he left early , days when he didn't come in at all .
Blanche knew something must be causing Stanley's new , strange behavior but she never once connected it with Kitti Walker .
It was too unprecedented .
Then , six weeks after the day Kitti first came into the office , Stanley announced he and Kitti were married .
Somehow , Blanche managed to cover the stunned surprise and offer her congratulations .
That night the two of them left for a week's honeymoon in Acapulco .
While they were away Blanche came into the office every morning , running things as she had always run them for Stanley , going through the week in a dazed stupor , getting things done automatically , out of habit .
For exactly one week , she was able to continue in this manner .
On the morning of Stanley's return , however , her strength left her .
Two hours of watching his serenely happy face , listening to his soft humming as he bent over his penciled figures , and Blanche had to leave .
She stayed away for ten days .
Those ten days were like no others that Blanche had known .
Mostly , she stayed in bed .
She didn't tell anyone , even her mother , what was wrong .
She refused to have a doctor , insisting there was nothing a doctor could do for her .
`` Right '' , said the fingerprint man .
`` Also , if you're going to believe those prints , you'll have to look for a killer who's a top-grade piano player '' .
He demonstrated by playing an imaginary piano , doing a staccato passage with a broadly exaggerated attack .
To make it clearer he shifted to acting out , but with no change of manner , the killing of Rose Mallory .
His hands snatched at an imaginary bucket , swooping down hard to grab it and coming away with equal snap like a ball that's been bounced hard .
In the same way he pantomimed grasping a mantel and bouncing cleanly off that , pressing his hands against the floor and bouncing cleanly off that .
He was moving like a ballet dancer , playing for laughs .
If Rose Mallory's killer acted this way , catching up with him was going to be a cinch .
We'd know him by his stretch pants and the flowers he'd wear twined in his hair .
Perhaps if Felix had first come upon us when this boy was not cavorting so gaily up and down the hall outside the murdered woman's apartment , we might have had less trouble convincing Felix of our seriousness .
This , you will remember , was still New Year's Day .
By the time Felix turned up it was early afternoon , which , one would think , would be late enough so that by then , except for small children and a few hardy souls who had not yet sobered up , it could have been expected that people would no longer be having any sort of active interest in the previous night's noisemakers and paper hats .
Felix was the exception .
He had retained his hat and his horn , and , whatever fun might still be going , he was ready to join it .
That , incidentally , might give you some idea of what Felix was like .
After all , he hadn't happened upon us in that second-floor hall without warning .
The M.E.'s boys had finished their on-the-spot examination and the body had been removed for autopsy .
The meat wagon , therefore , was not out in front of the house any more , but the cluster of squad cars was still there and there was a cop on the door downstairs to screen any comings and goings .
There was , furthermore , the crowd of curious onlookers gathered in the street and a couple more cops to hold them at a decent distance .
Just put yourself in Felix's place for a moment .
You're a taxpayer , householder , landlord .
You've been away from home for the New Year festivities , but now the party is over and you come home .
Defining sobriety in the limited sense of being free from the clinical symptoms of the effects of alcohol ingested and not yet eliminated from the system , you are sober .
You still have your paper hat and you're wearing it , but then , it is an extraordinary paper hat and , in addition to anything else you may be , you are also the sculptor who created that most peculiar dame out in the back yard .
It's not too much to assume that you will have a more lasting interest in paper hats than will Mr. Average Citizen .
You have your paper horn clutched in your big , craggy fist , and for your entrance you have planned a noisy , colorful and exuberant greeting to your friends and tenants .
You find your house a focus of public and police attention .
Can you imagine yourself forgetting under the circumstances that you are approaching this startling and unexpected situation so unsuitably hatted and armed with a paper horn ? ?
Maybe one could be startled into forgetfulness .
You shoulder your way through the cluster of the curious and you barge up to the cop on the door .
You identify yourself and ask him what's going on .
Instead of answering you , he sticks his head in the door and shouts up the stairs .
`` Got the upstairs guy '' , he bellows .
`` The owner .
Do I send him up '' ? ?
Then he turns back to you .
`` Go on in '' , he says .
