Bedbugs were a common pest in pioneer days ; ;
to keep them out of homes , even in the 1900's , was a chore .
Bed slats were washed in alum water , legs of beds were placed in cups of kerosene , and all woodwork was treated liberally with corrosive sublimate , applied with a feather .
Kerosene was very effective in ridding pioneer homes of the pests .
At times pioneer children got lice in their hair .
A kerosene shampoo seems a heroic treatment , but it did the job .
To remove an insect from one's ear warm water should be inserted .
A cinder or other small object could be removed from the eye by placing a flaxseed in the eye .
As the seed swelled its glutinous covering protected the eyeball from irritation , and both the cinder and the seed could soon be washed out .
Another way to remove small objects from the eye was to have the person look cross-eyed ; ;
the particle would then move toward the nose , where it could be wiped out with a wisp of cotton .
Shingles were cured by gentian , an old drug , used in combinations .
For erysipelas a mixture of one dram borax and one ounce glycerine was applied to the afflicted part on linen cloth .
Itching skin , considered `` just nerves '' , was eased by treating with whiskey and salt .
Winter itch was treated by applying strong apple cider in which pulverized bloodroot had been steeped .
To cure fungus growths on mouth or hands people made a strong tea by using a handful of sassafras bark in a quart of water .
They drank half a cup of this morning and night , and they also washed and soaked their hands in the same solution .
Six treatments cured one case which lasted a month and had defied other remedies .
Frostbite was treated by putting the feet and hands in ice water or by rubbing them with snow .
Now one hears that heat and hot water are used instead .
Another remedy was oil of eucalyptus , used as well for chilblains .
Chilblains were also treated with tincture of capsicum or cabbage leaves .
Boils have always been a source of much trouble .
A German informant gave me a sure cure made by combining rye flour and molasses into a poultice .
Another poultice was made from the inner bark of the elm tree , steeped in water until it formed a sticky , gummy solution .
This was also used for sores .
Another frequent pioneer difficulty , caused by wearing rough and heavy shoes and boots , was corns .
One veracious woman tells me she has used thin potato parings for both corns and calluses on her feet and they remove the pain or `` fire '' .
Another common cure was to soak the feet five or ten minutes in warm water , then to apply a solution of equal parts of soda and common brown soap on a kid bandage overnight .
This softened the skin so that in the morning when the bandage was removed the corn could be scraped off and a bit of corn plaster put on .
There were many cures for warts .
One young girl told me how her mother removed a wart from her finger by soaking a copper penny in vinegar for three days and then painting the finger with the liquid several times .
Another wart removal method was to rub each wart with a bean split open and then to bury the bean halves under the drip of the house for seven days .
Saliva gathered in the mouth after a night's sleep was considered poisonous ; ;
wetting a wart with this saliva on wakening the first thing in the morning was supposed to cause it to disappear after only a few treatments , and strangely enough many warts did just that .
One wart cure was to wrap it in a hair from a blonde gypsy .
Another was to soak raw beef in vinegar for twenty-four hours , tie it on the wart , and wear it for a week .
A simpler method was to tie a thread tightly around the wart at its base and wear it this way .
I know this worked .
One person recommended to me washing the wart with sulphur water ; ;
another said it should be rubbed with a cut potato three times daily .
Another common method was to cut an onion in two and place each half on the wart for a moment ; ;
the onion was then fastened together with string and placed beneath a dripping eave .
As the onion decayed , so did the wart .
Sore muscles were relieved by an arnica rub ; ;
sore feet by calf's-foot , an herb from the pioneer's ubiquitous herb garden , or by soaking the feet in a pan of hot water in which two cups of salt had been dissolved .
Leg cramps , one person tells me , were relieved by standing barefoot with the weight of the body on the heel and pressing down hard .
This does give relief , as I can testify .
One doctor prescribed a tablespoon of whiskey or brandy before each meal for leg cramps .
Pains in the back of the leg and in the abdomen were prevented from reaching the upper body by tying a rope about the patient's waist .
For sprains and swellings , one pint of cider vinegar and half a pint of spirits of turpentine added to three well beaten eggs was said to give speedy relief .
Except for the wine waiter in a restaurant -- always an inscrutable plenipotentiary unto himself , the genii with the keys to unlock the gates of the wine world are one's dealer , and the foreign shipper or negociant who in turn supplies him .
In instances where both of these are persons or firms with integrity , the situation is ideal .
It may , on occasion , be anything but that .
However , by cultivating a wine dealer and accepting his advice , one will soon enough ascertain whether he has any knowledge of wines ( as opposed to what he may have been told by salesmen and promoters ) and , better yet , whether he has a taste for wine .
Again , by spreading one's purchases over several wine dealers , one becomes familiar with the names and specialties of reputable wine dealers and shippers abroad .
This is important because , despite all the efforts of the French government , an appreciable segment of France's export trade in wines is still tainted with a misrepresentation approaching downright dishonesty , and there are many too many negociants who would rather turn a sou than amass a creditable reputation overseas .
A good negociant or shipper will not only be the man or the firm which has cornered the wines from the best vineyards , or the best parts of them ; ;
he may also be the one who makes and bottles the best blends -- sound wines from vineyards generally in his own district .
These are the wines the French themselves use for everyday drinking , for even in France virtually no one drinks the Grands Crus on a meal-to-meal basis .
The Grands Crus are expensive , and even doting palates tire of them .
And certainly , in the case of the beginner or the comparatively uninitiated wine drinker , the palate and the capacity for appreciation will not be ready for the Grands Crus as a steady diet without frequent recourse to crus of less renown .
There is nothing infra dig about a good blend from a good shipper .
Some of them are very delicious indeed , and there are many good ones exported -- unfortunately , along with others not so good , and worse .
Consultation with a reputable wine dealer and constant experimentation -- `` steering ever from the known to the unknown '' -- are the requisites .
Wine waiters are something else again ; ;
especially if one is travelling or dining out a great deal , their importance mounts .
Most of them , the world over , operate on the same principle by which justice is administered in France and some other Latin countries : the customer is to be considered guilty of abysmal ignorance until proven otherwise , with the burden of proof on the customer himself .
Now the drinking of wine ( and happily so ! !
) is for the most part a recondite affair , for manifestly , if everyone in the world who could afford the best wines also liked them , the supply would dry up in no time at all .
This is the only valid , and extenuating , argument that may be advanced in defense of the reprehensible attitude of the common wine waiter .
A really good wine waiter is , paradoxically , the guardian ( and not the purveyor ) of his cellar against the Visigoths .
Faced , on the one hand , with an always exhaustible supply of his best wines , and on the other by a clientele usually equipped with inexhaustible pocketbooks , it is a wonder indeed that all wine waiters are not afflicted with chronic ambivalence .
The one way to get around them -- short of knowing exactly what one wants and sticking to it -- is to frequent a single establishment until its wine waiter is persuaded that one is at least as interested in wine as in spending money .
Only then , perhaps , will he reveal his jewels and his bargains .
Wine bought from a dealer should ideally be allowed to rest for several weeks before it is served .
This is especially true of red wines , and a practice which , though not always practicable , is well worth the effort .
It does no harm for wine to stand on end for a matter of days , but in terms of months and years it is fatal .
Wine stored for a long time should be on its side ; ;
otherwise , the cork dries and air enters to spoil it .
When stacking wine on its side in a bin , care should always be taken to be sure there is no air bubble left next to the cork .
Fat bottles , such as Burgundies , have a way of rolling around in the bin and often need little props , such as a bit of cardboard or a chip of wood , to hold them in the proper reclining posture .
Too much dampness in the cellar rots the corks , again with ill effects .
The best rule of thumb for detecting corked wine ( provided the eye has not already spotted it ) is to smell the wet end of the cork after pulling it : if it smells of wine , the bottle is probably all right ; ;
if it smells of cork , one has grounds for suspicion .
Seasonal rises or drops in temperature are bad for wine : they age it prematurely .
The ideal storage temperature for long periods is about fifty-five degrees , with an allowable range of five degrees above or below this , provided there are no sudden or frequent changes .
Prolonged vibration is also undesirable ; ;
consequently , one's wine closet or cellar should be away from machines or electrically driven furnaces .
If one lives near a subway or an express parkway , the solution is to have one's wines stored with a dealer and brought home a few at a time .
Light , especially daylight , is always bad for wine .
All in all , though , there is a good deal of nonsense expended over the preparations thought necessary for ordinary wine drinking ; ;
many people go to extreme lengths in decanting , chilling or warming , or banishing without further investigation any bottle with so much as a slightly suspicious cork .
No one should wish to deny these purists the obvious pleasure they derive from all this , and to give fair warning where warning is due , no one who becomes fond of wines ever avoids acquiring some degree of purism ! !
But the fact remains that in most restaurants , including some of the best of Paris and Bordeaux and Dijon , the bottle is frankly and simply brought from the cellar to the table when ordered , and all the conditioning or preparation it ever receives takes place while the chef is preparing the meal .
A white wine , already at cool cellar temperature , may be adequately chilled in a bucket of ice and water or the freezing compartment of a refrigerator ( the former is far preferable ) in about fifteen minutes ; ;
for those who live in a winter climate , there is nothing better than a bucket of water and snow .
Though by no means an ideal procedure , a red wine may similarly be brought from the cellar to the dining room and opened twenty minutes or so before serving time .
It may be a bit cold when poured ; ;
but again , as one will have observed at any restaurant worth its salt , wine should be served in a large , tulip-shaped glass , which is never filled more than half full .
In this way , red wine warms of itself quite rapidly -- and though it is true that it may not attain its potential of taste and fragrance until after the middle of the meal ( or the course ) , in the meantime it will have run the gamut of many beguiling and interesting stages .
The only cardinal sin which may be committed in warming a wine is to force it by putting it next to the stove or in front of an open fire .
This invariably effaces any wine's character , and drives its fragrance underground .
It should not be forgotten that wines mature fastest in half-bottles , less fast in full bottles , slowly in Magnums -- and slower yet in Tregnums , double Magnums , Jeroboams , Methuselahs , and Imperiales , respectively .
Very old red wines often require several hours of aeration , and any red wine , brought from the cellar within half an hour of mealtime , should be uncorked and allowed some air .
But white wines never ! !
White wines should be opened when served , having been previously chilled in proportion to their sweetness .
Thus , Sauternes or Barsacs should be very cold ; ;
a Pouilly-Fuisse or a Chablis somewhat less cold .
Over-chilling is an accepted method for covering up the faults of many a cheap or poor white wine , especially a dry wine -- and certainly less of a crime than serving a wine at a temperature which reveals it as unattractive .
The fragrance and taste of any white wine will die a lingering death when it is allowed to warm or is exposed for long to the air .
To quote Professor Saintsbury : `` The last glass of claret or Burgundy is as good as the first ; ;
but the first glass of Chateau d'Yquem or Montrachet is a great deal better than the last '' ! !
This does not mean , though , that a red wine improves with prolonged aeration : there is a reasonable limit -- and wines kept over to the next meal or the next day , after they have once been opened , are never as good .
If this must be done , they should always be corked and kept in a cool place ; ;
it should be remembered that their lasting qualities are appreciably shorter than those of milk .
A few red wines , notably those of the Beaujolais , are better consumed at cellar temperature .
By tradition , a red wine should be served at approximately room temperature -- if anything a little cooler -- and be aged enough for the tannin and acids to have worked out and the sediment have settled well .
Thus , red wine must , if possible , never be disturbed or shaken ; ;
very old red wine is often decanted so that the puckering , bitter elements which have settled to the bottom will not be mingled with the wine itself .
A tug-of-war between an old bottle and an inefficient corkscrew may do as much harm as a week at sea .
The cork should be pulled gradually and smoothly , and the lip of the bottle wiped afterward .
Many people use wicker cradles for old red wine , lifting the bottle carefully from the bin into the cradle and eventually to the table , without disturbing the sediment .
Another school frowns on such a shortcut , and insists that after leaving the bin an old red wine should first stand on end for several days to allow the sediment to roll to the very bottom , after which the bottle may be gently eased to a tilted position on its side in the cradle .
In France , when one wishes to entertain at a restaurant and serve truly fine old red wines , one visits the restaurant well ahead of time , chooses the wines and , with the advice of the manager and his chef , builds the menu around them .
The wine waiter will see to it that the bottles are taken from the bin and opened at least in time to warm and aerate , preferably allowed to stand on end for as long as possible and , perhaps in the case of very old wines , be decanted .
Decanting old wine aerates it fully ; ;
it may also be -- practically speaking -- a matter of good economy .
For , in the process of decanting , the bottle is only tilted once instead of several or more times at the table : hence , a minimum of the undesirable mixture of wine and dregs .
Though there are many exceptions , which we have noted in preceding pages , white wine is as a rule best consumed between two and six years old , and red wines , nowadays , between three and ten .
Red wines of good years tend to mature later and to keep longer ; ;
the average claret is notably longer-lived than its opposite number , red Burgundy .
Some clarets do not come into their own until they are ten or fifteen years of age , or even more .
If a red Bordeaux of a good name and year is bitter or acid , or cloying and muddy-tasting , leave it alone for a while .
Most of the wines of Beaujolais , on the other hand , should be drunk while very young ; ;
and Alsatians may be .
Giffen replied punctually and enthusiastically : `` Rest assured that your accompanying Letter of Instructions shall be in the Letter and Spirit strictly complied with and most particularly in regard to that part of them relative to the completion of your noble and humane views '' .
Giffen lost no time in visiting the plantation .
The slaves appeared to be in good health and at work under John Palfrey's overseer .
An excellent crop was expected that year .
William , who lived in neighboring St. Mary's parish , had taken charge and decided that it would be best for all if the plantation were operated for another year .
Giffen advised acceptance of this plan , citing the depressed market for land then prevailing and the large stock of provisions at the plantation .
If sold then , the land and improvements might bring only $5,000 .
Early in January , 1844 he had a conference with Henry and William in New Orleans , and upon learning of Gorham's intention , Henry remonstrated calmly but firmly with his brother .
The emancipation plan would not only be injurious to all the heirs , he contended , but would be a form of cruelty perpetrated on the hapless Negroes .
They were not capable of supporting themselves off the plantation , and Louisiana law required their removal from the state .
Gorham refused to accept money for slave property , but did he realize how much expense and trouble the transportation of his Negroes to the North involved ? ?
The suggestion that Giffen hire out the slaves was not realistic , since no planter would take the risk of having Negroes who knew they were to be free living with his own slaves .
Henry hid his annoyance , although both he and William were furious with their Yankee brother .
William , who did not write to Gorham , told Giffen that unless he could operate the plantation as usual for a year , he would sue `` amicably '' to protect his interests .
Palfrey was determined that his portion of the slaves be converted to wage laborers during the transition period before emancipation .
If William wished to continue operations for a year , why not simply leave the Negroes undisturbed and pay them `` as high wages to remain there as are ever paid the labor of persons of their sex & age .
A disposition to exert themselves for my benefit would perhaps be a motive with some of them to come into the scheme .
Their having family ties on our plantation & the adjoining one would be a stronger inducement '' .
When he heard of his brothers' anger , Palfrey was still hopeful that they could be persuaded to accept his notion of paying wages .
If not , he was willing to accede to William's wishes in any way that did not block his ultimate aim .
William was adamant on one point : under no circumstances would he allow the Negroes to remain on the plantation with his and Henry's slaves if they were told of their coming freedom .
Knowing the antipathy that existed in Louisiana against increasing the number of free Negroes , Giffen suggested that Palfrey bring them to Boston at once , and then send them on to Liberia .
Lacking specific instructions , he agreed to William's condition .
In March there was a division of the slaves , and Giffen carried out his instructions as nearly as possible .
Of the fifty-two slaves , Giffen succeeded in getting a lot of twenty , twelve of whom were females .
`` I considered that your views would be best carried out '' , he explained , `` by taking women whose progeny will of course be free & more fully extend the philantrophy of Emancipation .
I have also taken the old servants of your father as a matter of Conscience & Justice '' .
The ages of the slaves ranged from sixty-five , for an old house servant , to an unnamed newborn child .
If Palfrey ever had any doubts about the wickedness of slavery , they were put aside after he received an inventory of the slave property he had inherited .
This cold reckoning of human worth in a legal paper , devoid of compassion or humanity , was all he needed .
Each human being , known only by a given name , had a cash value .
Old Sam's sixty-five years had reduced his value to $150 ; ;
; ;
Rose , a twelve-year-old with child-bearing potential , was worth $400 .
In rejecting any claim to the value of the slave property , Palfrey was giving up close to $7,000 .
Palfrey's brothers each received lots of sixteen Negroes , and for bookkeeping purposes it was agreed that all lots were to be valued at $6,666.66 .
Thus twenty `` black souls '' were to remain ignorant of their imminent journey to the land of free men .
Giffen extracted one concession from William : the house servants could be free at any time Gorham thought expedient .
Despite Giffen's warning , Palfrey still had plans for freeing his slaves in Louisiana .
Yet even if he could get the necessary approval , fourteen of his Negroes could not be manumitted without special permission .
According to state law a slave had to be at least thirty years old before he could be freed .
Palfrey petitioned the state legislature to waive the requirement .
Otherwise , freedom would mean removal from the state in which `` as the place of their past residence from birth , or for many years , it would be materially for their advantage to be at liberty to remain '' .
On March 11 the Louisiana legislature voted unanimously to table the petition .
News of the legislative veto appeared in the New Orleans papers , and Henry and William became incensed by the fact that they had not been told of the attempt in advance .
Henry stormed into Giffen's office waving a copy of the New Orleans Courier , shouting that the emancipation scheme had become a public affair , and that it would reach the `` Ears of the People on the Plantation , and make them restless & unhappy '' .
His brothers' anger caused Palfrey genuine concern , for he had imposed a dual mission upon himself : to free his slaves , and to keep the family from falling apart over the issue .
When Giffen decided to charge him interest on the loan from John Palfrey , Gorham readily assented , vowing that in a matter of dollars and cents , his brothers would never have any cause to complain of him .
In view of these difficulties , Palfrey decided to go to Louisiana .
Giffen had already urged him to journey south , if only for a few days to clear up matters .
His duties as Massachusetts Secretary of State obliged him to wait until the adjournment of the legislature in mid-April .
Palfrey told his wife of his intentions for the first time , and left for New Orleans apprehensively invoking a special blessing of Providence that he might be allowed to see his family again .
During his journey Palfrey stopped off to see two abolitionists .
In both cases he desired information about placing the freedmen in homes once they arrived in the North .
In New York , Lydia Maria Child welcomed him enthusiastically : `` I have lately heard of you from the Legislature of Louisiana , and felt joy at your public recognition of the brotherhood of man '' .
Mrs. Child , who had once apologized for sending editor Palfrey a book on slavery , now confided that she had helped one of Henry Palfrey's slaves escape to Canada some years before , but asked him not to advertise the fact in Louisiana .
She agreed to take charge of five or six of the Negroes should Palfrey decide to send them north immediately .
At Lexington , Kentucky , Palfrey consulted with Cassius M. Clay on the same subject , but with no apparent result .
Despite his apprehensions about his personal safety , Palfrey's reception in New Orleans was more than cordial .
Instead of the expected `` annoyances '' due to the nature of his mission , he received many calling cards and invitations from `` gentlemen of mark , on whom I had no sort of claim , & have had many more invitations than I could accept '' .
He later told abolitionist Edmund Quincy of the `` marked attention and civility '' with which the New Orleans gentlemen and the upriver planters greeted him .
The memory of this southern hospitality did not survive the trials of coming antislavery years and Civil War .
Palfrey's autobiography contains a melodramatic account of two perilous days spent among the planters of Attakapas , `` many of whom were coarse & passionate people , much excited by what they heard of my plans '' .
He proceeded with his task bravely -- in his memoirs , at least -- before the `` passions of my neighbors should have time to boil too high '' .
Palfrey had already made up his mind that he would allow the men , but not the women , to choose freely whether or not to go North for freedom .
The women by remaining behind condemned their children , born and unborn , to bondage .
He had a short private talk with each adult slave .
Only one objected , but Palfrey soon convinced him that he ought to go with the others .
All the slaves joined in requesting that they be allowed to delay their departure until the end of the planting season , so that they could get in `` their own little produce '' .
Palfrey agreed ; ;
the slaves were to remain as wage laborers for his account .
William's threat that under no conditions would he allow `` freedom-conscious '' slaves to mix with his own was not carried out , for the plantation continued in operation as before .
Palfrey returned to Massachusetts greatly relieved to have made an arrangement `` so satisfactory to my judgment & my conscience '' .
From Cambridge , Palfrey maintained a close interest in the welfare of his slaves .
In fact , as the time for their departure approached , his solicitousness increased .
Should any slave change his mind and request to leave earlier , Giffen was to provide passage at once .
When a sailing date of March , 1845 was finally established , Palfrey made sure that the Negroes would have comfortable quarters in New Orleans and aboard ship .
Giffen assured him that the captain and his mate had personally promised to treat the Negroes with consideration .
Palfrey was also concerned about the question of what wage to pay for their labor throughout 1844 .
The plantation was sold in January , 1845 , and Palfrey thought the new owner ought to pay his people two months' wages .
Giffen suggested fifty dollars as fair compensation for a year's work ; ;
the new owner at Attakapas declined to enter into any philanthropic arrangement .
On March 21 , 1845 the bark Bashaw weighed anchor at New Orleans , while on the levee Henry and William Palfrey waved farewell to their father's former chattels who must have looked back at the receding shore with mingled regret and jubilation .
Not all of Palfrey's slaves were aboard the Bashaw .
Giffen had advised that it would not be too difficult to obtain freedom locally for the old house servants .
Two of these were included in Palfrey's lot .
Giffen filed a petition for permission to emancipate four slaves ( all more than fifty years old ) with the St. Martin's Parish Police Jury .
After an initial rejection , which he attributed to a `` general Excitement against Abolition and Emancipation '' , Giffen bribed the right individuals on the jury , and got the permission without further delay .
When the Negroes landed at Boston a month later they were , of course , no longer slaves .
Slavery was prohibited in Massachusetts by the terms of the constitution of 1780 , which declared `` all men are born free and equal '' .
Nevertheless , Palfrey arranged a religious ceremony at King's Chapel to formalize the emancipation .
An eyewitness recalled how awkward the red-turbaned colored women appeared as they curtseyed in the church doorway , and the diffidence the former slaves displayed while they listened to the few words that declared them free .
Once the question of emancipation was settled to Palfrey's satisfaction , he faced a real problem in placing the freedmen in suitable homes as servants .
Palfrey tried fruitlessly to place a Negro boy in the Hopedale Community , but he had better luck in his other attempts .
Mrs. Child , true to her word , helped place Anna and her four children with a Quaker family named Hathaway near Canandaigua , New York .
This group had been Palfrey's greatest worry since Anna was in bad health , and her children were too young to work for their keep .
But certainly the New Frontier has brought to Washington a group more varied in background and interest .
Secretary of State Dean Rusk , a former Rhodes Scholar and Mills College dean , has headed the Rockefeller Foundation and in that role expended large sums for international cultural exchange .
One of his initial acts in office was to appoint Philip Coombs of the Ford Foundation as the first Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs .
( `` In the late forties and fifties '' , Coombs has declared in defining his role , `` two strong new arms were added to reinforce United States foreign policy economic assistance and military assistance .
As we embark upon the sixties we have an opportunity to build a third strong arm , aimed at the development of people , at the fuller realization of their creative human potential , and a better understanding among them '' .
)
Many of the new appointees are art collectors .
Ambassador-at-Large Averell Harriman has returned to the capital with a collection of paintings that include Renoir , Cezanne , Gauguin , Van Gogh , Toulouse-Lautrec , Degas , Matisse , Picasso , and Walt Kuhn .
The Director of the Peace Corps , R. Sargent Shriver , Jr. , a Kennedy brother-in-law , collects heavily among the moderns , including Kenzo Okada and Josef Albers .
Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon owns a prize Monet , Femmes dans un Jardin .
Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara , former President of the Ford Motor Company , comes from a generation different from that of Eisenhower's own first Secretary of Defense , Charles Wilson , who had been head of General Motors .
Unlike Wilson , who at times seemed almost anti-intellectual in his earthy pragmatism .
McNamara is the scholar-businessman .
An inveterate reader of books , he chose while working in Detroit to live in the University community of Ann Arbor , almost forty miles away .
He selected as Comptroller of Defense , not a veteran accountant , but a former Rhodes Scholar , Charles Hitch , who is author of a study on The Economics Of Defense In The Nuclear Age .
One of the President's special assistants , the Harvard dean McGeorge Bundy , was co-author with Henry L. Stimson of the latter's classic memoir , On Active Service .
Another , Arthur M. Schlesinger , Jr. , has won a Pulitzer Prize in history ; ;
his wife , Marion , is a portrait painter .
The Press Secretary , Pierre Salinger , was a child prodigy as a pianist .
( `` It is always of sorrow to me when I find people who neither know nor understand music '' , he declared not long ago in proposing that White House prizes be awarded for music and art .
) Mrs. Arthur Goldberg , wife of the Secretary of Labor , paints professionally and helps sponsor the Associated Artists' Gallery in the District of Columbia .
( `` Artists are always at a new frontier '' , she claims .
`` In fact , the search is almost more important than the find '' .
) Mrs. Henry Labouisse , wife of the new director of the foreign aid program , is the writer and lecturer Eve Curie .
The list goes on .
At last count , sixteen former Rhodes Scholars ( see box on page 13 ) had been appointed to the Administration , second in number only to its Harvard graduates .
Besides Schlesinger , the Justice Department's Information Director , Edwin Guthman , has won a Pulitzer Prize ( for national reporting ) .
Postmaster General J. Edward Day , who must deal with matters of postal censorship , is himself author of a novel , Bartholf Street , albeit one he was obliged to publish at his own expense .
Two men show promise of playing prominent roles :
William Walton , a writer-turned-painter , has been a long-time friend of the President .
They arrived in Washington about the same time during the early postwar years : Kennedy as the young Congressman from Massachusetts ; ;
Walton , after a wartime stint with Time-Life , to become bureau chief for The New Republic .
Both lived in Georgetown , were unattached , and shared an active social life .
Walton , who soon made a break from journalism to become one of the capital's leading semi-abstract painters , vows that he and Kennedy never once discussed art in those days .
Nonetheless , they found common interests .
During last year's campaign , Kennedy asked Walton , an utter novice in organization politics , to assist him .
Walton dropped everything to serve as a district co-ordinator in the hard-fought Wisconsin primary and proved so useful that he was promoted to be liaison officer to critically important New York City .
Walton , who served as a correspondent with General James Gavin's paratroopers during the invasion of France , combines the soul of an artist with the lingo of a tough guy .
He provoked outraged editorials when , after a post-Inaugural inspection of the White House with Mrs. Kennedy , he remarked to reporters , `` We just cased the joint to see what was there '' .
But his credentials are impeccable .
Already the President and the First Lady have deputized him to advise on matters ranging from the furnishing of the White House to the renovation of Lafayette Square .
A man of great talent , he will continue to serve as a sort of Presidential trouble-shooter , strictly ex officio , for culture .
A more official representative is the Secretary of the Interior .
Udall , who comes from one of the Mormon first-families of Arizona , is a bluff , plain-spoken man with a lust for politics and a habit of landing right in the middle of the fight .
But even while sparring furiously with Republican politicians , he displays a deep and awesome veneration for anyone with cultural attainments .
His private dining room has become a way station for visiting intellectuals such as C. P. Snow , Arnold Toynbee , and Aaron Copland .
Udall argues that Interior affairs should cover a great deal more than dams and wildlife preserves .
After promoting Frost's appearance at the Inauguration , he persuaded the poet to return several months later to give a reading to a select audience of Cabinet members , members of Congress , and other Washington notables gathered in the State Department auditorium .
The event was so successful that the Interior Secretary plans to serve as impresario for similar ones from time to time , hoping thereby to add to the cultural enrichment of the Administration .
His Ideas in this respect , however , sometimes arouse critical response .
One tempest was stirred up last March when Udall announced that an eight-and-a-half-foot bronze statue of William Jennings Bryan , sculpted by the late Gutzon Borglum , would be sent `` on indefinite loan '' to Salem , Illinois , Bryan's birthplace .
Spokesmen for the nation's tradition-minded sculptors promptly claimed that Udall was exiling the statue because of his own hostility to this art form .
They dug up a speech he had made two years earlier as a Congressman , decrying the more than two hundred statues , monuments , and memorials which `` dot the Washington landscape as patriotic societies and zealous friends are constantly hatching new plans '' .
Hoping to cut down on such works , Udall had proposed that a politician be at least fifty years departed before he is memorialized .
He is not likely to win this battle easily .
In the case of the Borglum statue an Interior aide was obliged to announce that there had been a misunderstanding and that the Secretary had no desire to `` hustle '' it out of Washington .
The last Congress adopted seven bills for memorials , including one to Taras Shevchenko , the Ukrainian poet laureate ; ;
eleven others were introduced .
Active warfare is raging between the forces pressing for a monument to the first Roosevelt on Theodore Roosevelt Island in the Potomac , and TR.'s own living children , who wish to preserve the island as a wildlife sanctuary .
The hotly debated plan for the capital's Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial , a circle of huge tablets engraved with his speeches ( and promptly dubbed by one of its critics , `` Instant Stonehenge '' ) , is another of Udall's headaches , since as supervisor of the National Parks Commission he will share in the responsibility for building it .
`` Washington '' , President Kennedy has been heard to remark ironically , `` is a city of southern efficiency and northern charm '' .
There have been indications that he hopes to redress that situation , commencing with the White House .
One of Mrs. Kennedy's initial concerns as First Lady was the sad state of the furnishings in a building which is supposed to be a national shrine .
Ever since the fire of 1812 destroyed the beautiful furniture assembled by President Thomas Jefferson , the White House has collected a hodgepodge of period pieces , few of them authentic or aesthetic .
Mrs. Kennedy shows a determination to change all this .
Not long after moving in she turned up a richly carved desk , hewed from the timbers of the British ship H.M.S. Resolute and presented to President Hayes by Queen Victoria .
It now serves the President in his oval office .
Later , browsing in an old issue of the Gazette Des Beaux-Arts , she found a description of a handsome gilt pier-table purchased in 1817 by President James Monroe .
She traced it to a storage room .
With its coating of gold radiator paint removed -- a gaucherie of some earlier tenant -- it will now occupy its rightful place in the oval Blue Room on the first floor of the White House .
But it soon became clear that the search for eighteenth-century furniture ( which Mrs. Kennedy feels is the proper period for the White House ) must be pursued in places other than government storage rooms .
The First Lady appointed a Fine Arts Advisory Committee for the White House , to locate authentic pieces as well as to arrange ways to acquire them .
Her effort to put the home of living Presidents on the same basis as Mount Vernon and Monticello recognizes no party lines .
By rough estimate her Committee , headed by Henry Francis Du Pont , contains three times as many Republicans as Democrats .
The press releases emanating from the White House give a clue to the activity within .
A curator has been appointed .
A valuable pencil-and-sepia allegorical drawing of Benjamin Franklin by Jean-Honore Fragonard has been donated by the art dealer Georges Wildenstein and now hangs in the Blue Room .
The American Institute of Interior Designers is redecorating the White House library .
Secretary and Mrs. Dillon have contributed enough pieces of Empire furniture , including Dolley Madison's own sofa , to furnish a room in that style .
And part of a fabulous collection of vermeil hollowware , bequeathed to the White House by the late Mrs. Margaret Thompson Biddle , has been taken out of its locked cases and put on display in the State dining room .
Woman's place is in the home : man must attend to matters of the yard .
One of the vexatious problems to first confront President Kennedy was the property lying just across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House .
Congress had already appropriated money , and plans were well along to tear down the buildings flanking Lafayette Square and replace them with what one critic calls the `` marble monumentality '' of government office buildings .
While a Senator , Kennedy had unsuccessfully pushed a bill to preserve the Belasco Theater , as well as the Dolley Madison and the Benjamin Taylor houses , all scheduled for razing .
What to do about it now that he was President ? ?
Only a few days after moving into the White House .
Kennedy made a midnight inspection of the Square .
Then he called in his friend Walton and turned over the problem to him , with instructions to work out what was best -- provided it didn't pile unnecessary burdens on the President .
The situation involved some political perils .
One of the offices slated for reconstruction is the aged Court of Claims , diagonally across the street from the White House .
Logically , it should be moved downtown .
But Judge Marvin Jones , senior member of the Court , is an elderly gentleman who lives at the nearby Metropolitan Club and desires to walk to work .
More importantly , he also happens to be the brother-in-law of Sam Rayburn , Speaker of the House .
There were aesthetic problems as well as political .
On delving deeper , Walton discovered that most of the buildings fronting the Square could be classified as `` early nondescript '' .
The old Belasco Theater , over which many people had grown sentimental , was only a shell of its former self after arduous years as a USO Center .
The Dolley Madison House , Walton concluded , was scarcely worth preserving .
`` The attempt to save the Square's historic value '' , he declares , `` came half a century too late '' .
Surrounded by ancient elms , the campus is spacious and beautiful .
The buildings are mostly Georgian .
The Dartmouth student does not live in monastic seclusion , as he once did .
But his is still a simple life relatively free of the female presence or influence , and he must go far , even though he may go fast , for sophisticated pleasures .
He is still heir to the rare gifts of space and silence , if he chooses to be .
He is by no means the country boy he might have been in the last century , down from the hills with bear grease on his hair and a zeal for book learning in his heart .
The men's shops on Hanover's Main Street compare favorably with those in Princeton and New Haven .
And the automobiles that stream out of Hanover each weekend , toward Smith and Wellesley and Mount Holyoke , are no less rakish than those leaving Cambridge or West Philadelphia .
But there has always been an outdoor air to Dartmouth .
The would-be sophisticate and the citybred youth adopt this air without embarrassment .
No one here pokes fun at manly virtues .
And this gives rise to an easy camaraderie probably unequaled elsewhere in the Ivy League .
It even affects the faculty .
Thus , when Dartmouth's Winter Carnival -- widely recognized as the greatest , wildest , roaringest college weekend anywhere , any time -- was broadcast over a national television hookup , Prexy John Sloan Dickey appeared on the screen in rugged winter garb , topped off by a tam-o'-shanter which he confessed had been acquired from a Smith girl .
President Dickey's golden retriever , frolicking in the snow at his feet , added to the picture of masculine informality .
This carefree disdain for `` side '' cropped up again in the same television broadcast .
Dean Thaddeus Seymour , wearing ski clothes , was crowning a beauteous damsel queen of the Carnival .
She must have looked temptingly pretty to the dean as he put the crown on her head .
So he kissed her .
No Dartmouth man was surprised .
Dartmouth students enjoy other unusual diversions with equal sang-froid .
For example , groups regularly canoe down the Connecticut River .
This is in honor of John Ledyard , class of 1773 , who scooped a canoe out of a handy tree and first set the course way back in his own student days .
And these hardy travelers are not unappreciated today .
They are hailed by the nation's press , and Smith girls throng the riverbanks at Northampton and refresh the voyageurs with hot soup and kisses .
Dartmouth's favorite and most characteristic recreation is skiing .
Since the days when their two thousand pairs of skis outnumbered those assembled anywhere else in the United States , the students have stopped regarding the Olympic Ski Team as another name for their own .
Yet Dartmouth still is the dominant member of the Intercollegiate Ski Union , which includes the winter sports colleges of Canada as well as those of this country .
Dartmouth students ski everywhere in winter , starting with their own front door .
They can hire a horse and go ski-joring behind him , or move out to Oak Hill , where there's a lift .
The Dartmouth Skiway , at Holt's Ledge , ten miles north of the campus , has one of the best terrains in the East , ranging from novice to expert .
Forty miles farther north is Mount Moosilauke , Dartmouth's own mountain .
Here , at the Ravine Lodge , President Dickey acts as host every year to about a hundred freshmen who are being introduced by the Dartmouth Outing Club to life on the trails .
The Lodge , built of hand-hewn virgin spruce , can handle fifty people for dining , sleeping , or lounging in its huge living room .
The Outing Club also owns a chain of fourteen cabins and several shelters , extending from the Vermont hills , just across the river from the college , through Hanover to the College Grant -- 27,000 acres of wilderness 140 miles north up in the logging country .
The cabins are equipped with bunks , blankets , and cooking equipment and are ideal bases for hikes and skiing trips .
The club runs regular trips to the cabins , but many of the students prefer to take off in small unofficial groups for a weekend of hunting , fishing , climbing , or skiing .
Under the auspices of the Outing Club , Dartmouth also has the Mountaineering Club , which takes on tough climbs like Mount McKinley , and Bait & Bullet , whose interests are self-evident , and even sports a Woodman's Team , which competes with other New England colleges in wood sawing and chopping , canoe races , and the like .
There is much to be said for a college that , while happily attuned to the sophisticated Ivies , still gives its students a chance to get up early in the morning and drive along back roads where a glimpse of small game , deer , or even bear is not uncommon .
City boys find a lot of learning in the feel of an ax handle or in the sharp tang of a sawmill , come upon suddenly in a backwoods logging camp .
And on the summit of Mount Washington , where thirty-five degrees below zero is commonplace and the wind velocity has registered higher than anywhere else in the world , there is a kind of wisdom to be found that other men often seek in the Himalayas `` because it is there '' .
There is much to be said for such a college -- and Dartmouth men have been accused of saying it too often and too loudly .
Their affection for their college home has even caused President Dickey to comment on this `` place loyalty '' as something rather specially Hanoverian .
Probably a lawyer once said it best for all time in the Supreme Court of the United States .
Early in the nineteenth century the State of New Hampshire was casting about for a way to found its own state university .
It fixed on Dartmouth College , which was ready-made and just what the proctor ordered .
The legislators decided to `` liberate '' Dartmouth and entered into a tug-o'-war with the college trustees over the control of classrooms , faculty , and chapel .
For a time there were two factions on the campus fighting for possession of the student body .
The struggle was resolved in 1819 in the Supreme Court in one of the most intriguing cases in our judicial history .
In 1817 the lawyers were generally debating the legal inviolability of private contracts and charters .
A lawyer , hired by the college , was arguing specifically for Dartmouth : Daniel Webster , class of 1801 , made her plight the dramatic focus of his whole plea .
In an age of oratory , he was the king of orators , and both he himself and Chief Justice Marshall were bathed in manly tears , as Uncle Dan'l reached his thundering climax :
`` It is , sir , as I have said , a small college , and yet there are those who love it .
''
Dartmouth is today still a small college -- and still a private one , thanks to Webster's eloquence .
This is not out of keeping with its origins , probably the most humble of any in the Ivy group .
Eleazar Wheelock , a Presbyterian minister , founded the school in 1769 , naming it after the second earl of Dartmouth , its sponsor and benefactor .
Eleazar , pausing on the Hanover plain , found its great forests and remoteness good and with his own hands built the first College Hall , a log hut dedicated `` for the education & instruction of Youth of the Indian Tribes in this Land in reading , writing & all parts of learning which shall appear necessary and expedient for civilizing & christianizing Children of Pagans as well as in all liberal Arts and Sciences ; ;
and also of English Youth and any others '' .
It was a hardy undertaking , and Wheelock's was indeed `` a voice crying in the wilderness '' .
A road had to be hacked through trackless forests between Hanover and Portsmouth to permit Governor Wentworth and a company of gentlemen to attend the first Dartmouth commencement in 1771 .
The governor and his retinue thoughtfully brought with them a glorious silver punchbowl which is still one of the cherished possessions of the college .
The exuberance on this occasion set a standard for subsequent Dartmouth gatherings .
A student orator `` produced tears from a great number of the learned '' even before the punch was served .
Then from the branches of a near-by tree an Indian underclassman , disdaining both the platform and the English language , harangued the assemblage in his aboriginal tongue .
Governor Wentworth contributed an ox for a barbecue on the green beneath the three-hundred-foot pines , and a barrel of rum was broached .
The cook got drunk , and President Wheelock proved to be a man of broad talents by carving the ox himself .
Future commencements were more decorous perhaps , but the number of graduates increased from the original four at a relatively slow pace .
By the end of the nineteenth century , in 1893 , when the Big Three , Columbia , and Penn were populous centers of learning , Dartmouth graduated only sixty-nine .
The dormitories , including the beloved Dartmouth Hall , could barely house two hundred students in Spartan fashion .
Then in 1893 Dr. William Jewett Tucker became president and the college's great awakening began .
He transformed Dartmouth from a small New Hampshire institution into a national college .
By 1907 the number of undergraduates had risen to 1,107 .
And at his last commencement , in that year , Dr. Tucker and Dartmouth were honored by the presence of distinguished academic visitors attesting to the new stature of the college .
The presidents of Cornell , Wisconsin , C.C.N.Y. , Bowdoin , Vermont , Brown , Columbia , Princeton , Yale , and Harvard and the presidents emeritus of Harvard and Michigan were there .
Dartmouth is numerically still a small college today , with approximately twenty-nine hundred undergraduates .
But it has achieved a cross-section of students from almost all the states , and two-thirds of its undergraduates come from outside New England .
Over 450 different schools are usually represented in each entering class .
Only a dozen or so schools send as many as six students , and there are seldom more than fifteen men in any single delegation .
About two-thirds of the boys now come from public schools .
It is still a college only and not a university ; ;
it is , in fact , the only college in the Ivy group .
However , three distinguished associated graduate schools offer professional curriculums -- the Dartmouth Medical School ( third oldest in the country and founded in 1797 ) , the Thayer School of Engineering , and the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration .
All three are purposely kept small , with a current total enrollment of about two hundred .
All three schools coordinate their educational programs with that of the undergraduate college and , like the college proper , place emphasis upon a broad liberal arts course as the proper foundation for specialized study .
Students of the college who are candidates for the A.B. degree and can satisfy the academic requirements of the medical and business schools , may enter either of these associated schools at the beginning of senior year , thus completing the two-year postgraduate course in one year .
The Thayer School offers a year of postgraduate study in somewhat the same way , after a boy wins a B.S. in engineering .
So Dartmouth is moving closer to the others in the Ivy group .
It is still , however , the junior member of the League , if not in years at least in the catching up it has had to do .
It has not been a well-known school for any part of the span the other Ivies have enjoyed .
However much football has been over-emphasized , the public likes to measure its collegiate favorites by the scoreboard , so , while Yale need never give its record a thought again since outscoring its opponents 694 to 0 in the season of 1888 , Dartmouth had to wait until its championship team of 1925 for national recognition .
It has come on with a rush in more significant areas .
Today it espouses certain ideas in its curriculum that other institutions might consider somewhat breathtaking .
But Dartmouth preserves its youthful brashness even in its educational attitudes , and , although some of its experiments may still be in the testing stage , they make for lively copy .
President Emeritus Hopkins once proposed to corral an `` aristocracy of brains '' in Hanover .
The person who left the buggy there has never been identified .
It was a busy street , conveniently near the shopping center , and unattended horses and wagons were often left at the curbside .
There are , of course , many weaknesses in any case against Emma .
She didn't like her stepmother , but nothing is known to have occurred shortly before the crime that could have caused such a murderous rage .
She had no way of knowing in advance whether an opportunity for murder existed .
She would have been taking more than a fair risk of being seen and recognized during her travels .
If she avoided the train and hired a buggy , the stableman might have recognized her .
If police had checked on her more thoroughly than is indicated , she would be completely eliminated as a suspect .
Uncle John Vinnicum Morse was the immediate popular suspect .
His sudden unannounced appearance at the Borden home was strange in that he did not carry an iota of baggage with him , although he clearly intended to stay overnight , if not longer .
Lizzie stated during the inquest that while her father and uncle were in the sitting room the afternoon before the murders , she had been disturbed by their voices and had closed her door , even though it was a very hot day .
It is evident that Lizzie did not tell everything she overheard between her father and her Uncle Morse .
At that time Jennings had a young law associate named Arthur S. Phillips .
A few years ago , not too long before his death , Phillips revealed in a newspaper story that he had always suspected Morse of the murders .
He said Morse and Borden had quarreled violently in the house that day , information which must have come from Lizzie .
It was obviously the sound of this argument that caused Lizzie to close her door .
The New Bedford Standard-Times has reported Knowlton as saying , long after the trial , that if he only knew what Borden said during his conversation with Morse , he would have convicted `` somebody '' .
Notice , Knowlton did not say that he would have obtained a conviction in the trial of Lizzie Borden .
He said he would have convicted `` somebody '' .
It is known that Morse did associate with a group of itinerant horse traders who made their headquarters at Westport , a town not far from Fall River .
They were a vagabond lot and considered to be shady and undesirable characters .
Fall River police did go to Westport to see if they could get any information against Morse and possibly find an accomplice whom he might have hired from among these men .
These officers found no incriminating information .
Morse's alibi was not as solid as it seemed .
He said he returned from the visit to his niece on the 11:20 streetcar .
The woman in the house where the niece was staying backed up his story and said she left when he did to shop for her dinner .
Fall River is not a fashionable town .
The dinner hour there was twelve noon .
If this woman had delayed until after 11:20 to start her shopping , she would have had little time in which to prepare the substantial meal that was eaten at dinner in those days .
It is possible that Morse told the woman it was 11:20 , but it could have been earlier , since she did serve dinner on time .
Police did make an attempt to check on Morse's alibi .
They interviewed the conductor of the streetcar Morse said he had taken , but the man did not remember Morse as a passenger .
Questioned further , Morse said that there had been four or five priests riding on the same car with him .
The conductor did recall having priests as passengers and this satisfied police , although the conductor also pointed out that in heavily Catholic Fall River there were priests riding on almost every trip the streetcar made , so Morse's statement really proved nothing .
We do know that Morse left the house before nine o'clock .
Bridget testified she saw him leave through the side door .
Morse said Borden let him out and locked the screen door .
From that point on he said he went to the post office and then walked leisurely to where his niece was staying , more than a mile away .
He met nobody he knew on this walk .
There is no accounting of his movements in this long gap of time which covers the early hours when Mrs. Borden was killed .
Morse testified that while he was having breakfast in the dining room , Mrs. Borden told the servant , `` Bridget , I want you to wash these windows today '' .
Bridget's testimony was in direct contradiction .
She said it was after she returned from her vomiting spell in the back yard that Mrs. Borden told her to wash the windows .
This was long after Morse had left the house .
Morse's knowledge of what Mrs. Borden told Bridget could indicate that he had returned secretly to the house and was hidden there .
He knew the house fairly well , he had been there on two previous visits during the past three or four months alone .
And despite Knowlton's attempts to show that the house was locked up tighter than a drum , this was not true .
The screen door was unlocked for some ten or fifteen minutes while Bridget was sick in the back .
It was unlocked all the time she was washing windows .
Morse could have returned openly while Bridget was sick in the back yard and gone up to the room he had occupied .
Mrs. Borden would not have been alarmed if she saw Morse with an ax or hatchet in his hand .
He had been to the farm the previous day and he could have said they needed the ax or hatchet at the farm .
Mrs. Borden would have had no reason to disbelieve him and he could have approached close enough to her to swing before she could cry out .
He could have left for Weybosset Street after her murder and made it in plenty of time by using the streetcar .
If he took an earlier streetcar than the 11:20 on his return , he could have arrived at the Borden house shortly after Mr. Borden came home .
With Lizzie in the barn , the screen door unlocked and Bridget upstairs in her attic room , he would have had free and easy access to the house .
With the second murder over , he could have left , hidden the weapon in some vacant lot or an abandoned cistern in the neighborhood .
His unconcerned stroll down the side of the house to a pear tree , with crowds already gathering in front of the building and Sawyer guarding the side door , was odd .
There was no close examination of his clothes for bloodstains , and certainly no scientific test was made of them .
And for a man who traveled around without any change of clothing , a few more stains on his dark suit may very well have gone unnoticed .
The motive may have been the mysterious quarrel ; ;
there was no financial gain for Morse in the murders .
On the other side of the ledger is the fact that he did see his niece and the woman with whom she was staying .
The time would have been shortly after the murder of Mrs. Borden and they noticed nothing unusual in his behavior .
He said he had promised Mrs. Borden to return in time for dinner and that was close to the time when he did turn up at the Borden house .
What did Pearson say about Bridget Sullivan as a possible suspect in his trial-book essay ? ?
He wrote :
`` The police soon ceased to look upon either Bridget or Mr. Morse as in possession of guilty knowledge .
Neither had any interest in the deaths ; ;
indeed , it was probably to Mr. Morse's advantage to have Mr. and Mrs. Borden alive .
Both he and Bridget were exonerated by Lizzie herself '' .
That was his complete discussion of Bridget Sullivan as a possible suspect .
Although Pearson disbelieved almost everything Lizzie said , and read a sinister purpose into almost everything she did , he happily accepted her statement about Bridget as the whole truth .
He felt nothing further need be said about the servant girl .
The exoneration Pearson speaks of is not an exoneration , but Lizzie's expression of her opinion , as reported in the testimony of Assistant Marshal Fleet .
This officer had asked Lizzie if she suspected her Uncle Morse , and she replied she didn't think he did it because he left the house before the murders and returned after them .
Fleet asked the same question about Bridget , and Lizzie pointed out that as far as she knew Bridget had gone up to her room before her father's murder and came down when she called her .
Lizzie , actually , never named any suspect .
She told police about the prospective tenant she had heard quarreling with her father some weeks before the murders , but she said she thought he was from out of town because she heard him mention something about talking to his partner .
And , much as she detested Hiram Harrington , she also did not accuse him .
At the inquest she was asked specifically whether she knew anybody her father had bad feelings toward , or who had bad feelings toward her father .
She replied , `` I know of one man that has not been friendly with him .
They have not been friendly for years '' .
Asked who this was , she named Harrington .
Her statement certainly was true ; ;
the press reported the same facts in using Harrington's interview , but Lizzie did not suggest at the inquest that Harrington was the killer .
When I interviewed Kirby , who as a boy picked up pears in the Borden yard , I asked if anybody else in the household besides Lizzie and Morse had been under any suspicion at the time of the murders .
He said he had not heard of anybody else .
`` How about Bridget Sullivan '' ? ?
I inquired .
`` Oh , she was just the maid there '' , he replied , waving a hand to indicate how completely unimportant she was .
Kirby was , of course , reflecting the opinion that existed at the time of murders .
Everyone somehow manages to overlook completely the fact that , as far as we know , there were exactly two people in and about the house at the time of both murders : Lizzie Borden and Bridget Sullivan .
All the officials on the case seem to have been afflicted with a similar myopia as far as Bridget was concerned , although records in police files contain many reports of servants who have murdered their employers .
True , it is no longer cricket for the butler to be the killer in mystery fiction , but we are dealing here with actual people in real life and not imaginary characters and situations .
The actions of Bridget should be examined , since she was there and opportunity did exist , if only to establish her innocence .
There are also other factors that require closer examination .
The legend as it exists in Fall River today always includes the solemn assurance that Bridget returned to Ireland after the trial with a `` big bundle '' of cash which Lizzie gave her for keeping her mouth shut .
The people who believe and retell the legend have apparently never troubled to read the trial testimony and do not know that the maid changed her testimony on several key points , always to the detriment of Lizzie .
If Bridget did get any bundles of cash , the last person who would have rewarded her for services rendered would have been Lizzie Borden .
Bridget was born in Ireland , one of fourteen children .
She was apparently the pioneer in her family because she had no close relatives in this country at that time .
She worked as a domestic , first in Newport for a year , and then in South Bethlehem , Pennsylvania , for another year .
She finally settled in Fall River and , after being employed for a time by a Mrs. Reed , was hired by the Bordens .
I have previously described how , during the week of the murder , Bridget spent the first few hot days scrubbing and ironing clothes .
Her father , James Upton , was the Upton mentioned by Hawthorne in the famous introduction to the Scarlet Letter as one of those who came into the old custom house to do business with him as the surveyor of the port .
A gentleman of the old school , Mr. Upton possessed intellectual power , ample means , and withal , was a devoted Christian .
The daughter profited from his interest in scientific and philosophical subjects .
Her mother also was a person of superior mind and broad interests .
There is clear evidence that Lucy from childhood had an unusual mind .
She possessed an observant eye , a retentive memory , and a critical faculty .
When she was nine years old , she wrote a description of a store she had visited .
She named 48 items , and said there were `` many more things which it would take too long to write '' .
An essay on `` Freedom '' written at 10 years of age quoted the Declaration of Independence , the freedom given to slaves in Canada , and the views of George Washington .
Lucy Upton was graduated from the Salem High School when few colleges , only Oberlin and Elmira , were open to women ; ;
and she had an appetite for learning that could not be denied .
A picture of her in high school comes from a younger schoolmate , Albert S. Flint , friend of her brother Winslow , and later , like Winslow , a noted astronomer .
He recalled Lucy , as `` a bright-looking black-eyed young lady who came regularly through the boys' study hall to join the class in Greek in the little recitation room beyond '' .
The study of Greek was the distinctive mark of boys destined to go to college , and Lucy Upton too expected to go to college and take the full classical course offered to men .
The death of her mother in 1865 prevented this .
With four younger children at home , Lucy stepped into her mother's role , and even after the brothers and sisters were grown , she was her father's comfort and stay until he died in 1879 .
But even so Lucy could not give up her intellectual pursuits .
When her brother Winslow became a student at Brown University in 1874 , she wrote him about a course in history he was taking under Professor Diman : `` What is Prof. Diman's definition of civilization , and take the world through , is its progress ever onward , or does it retrograde at times ? ?
Do you think I might profitably study some of the history you do , perhaps two weeks behind you .
'' And that she proceeded to do .
Many years later ( on August 3 , 1915 ) , Lucy Upton wrote Winslow's daughter soon to be graduated from Smith College : `` While I love botany which , after dabbling in for years , I studied according to the methods of that day exactly forty years ago in a summer school , it must be fascinating to take up zoology in the way you are doing .
Whatever was the science in the high school course for the time being , that was my favorite study .
Mathematics came next '' .
Her study of history was persistently pursued .
She read Maitland's Dark Ages , `` which I enjoyed very much '' ; ;
La Croix on the Customs of the Middle Ages , 16 chapters of Bryce `` and liked it more and more '' ; ;
more chapters of Guizot ; ;
Lecky and Stanley's Eastern Church .
She discussed in her letters to Winslow some of the questions that came to her as she studied alone .
Lucy's correspondence with brother Winslow during his college days was not entirely taken up with academic studies .
She played chess with him by postcard .
Also Lucy and Winslow had a private contest to see which one could make the most words from the letters in `` importunately '' .
Who won is not revealed , but Winslow's daughter Eleanor says they got up to 1,212 words .
There was another family interest also .
Winslow had musical talents , as had his father before him .
At different times he served as glee-club and choir leader and as organist .
And it was Lucy Upton who first started the idea of a regular course in Music at Spelman College .
Winslow Upton after graduation from Brown University and two years of graduate study , accepted a position at the Harvard Observatory .
For three years he was connected with the U.S. Naval Observatory and with the U.S. Signal Corps ; ;
and after 1883 , was professor of astronomy at Brown University .
The six expeditions to study eclipses of the sun , of which he was a member , took him to Colorado , Virginia , and California as well as to the South Pacific and to Russia .
After her father's death , Lucy and her youngest sister lived for a few years with Winslow in Washington , D.C. .
`` Their house '' , writes Albert S. Flint , `` was always a haven of hospitality and good cheer , especially grateful to one like myself far from home '' .
Lucy was a lively part of the household .
Moreover , she had physical as well as mental vigor .
Winslow , as his daughters Eleanor and Margaret recall , used to characterize her as `` our iron sister '' .
There is reason to suppose that Lucy would have made a record as publicly distinguished as her brother had it not been that her mother's death occurred just as she was about to enter college .
As a matter of fact , Albert S. Flint expressed his conviction that `` her physical strength , her mental power , her lively interest in all objects about her and her readiness to serve her fellow beings '' would have led her `` to a distinguished career amongst the noted women of this country '' .
While in Washington , D.C. , Lucy Upton held positions in the U.S. Census Office , and in the Pension Bureau .
They were not sufficiently challenging however , and she resigned in 1887 , to go to Germany with her brother Winslow and his family while he was there on study .
After the months in Europe , she returned to Boston and became active in church and community life .
What was called an `` accidental meeting '' with Miss Packard in Washington turned her attention to Spelman .
Here was a cause she believed in .
After correspondence with Miss Packard and to the joy of Miss Packard and Miss Giles , she came to Atlanta , in the fall of 1888 , to help wherever needed , although there was then no money available to pay her a salary .
She served for a number of years without pay beyond her travel and maintenance .
Her students have spoken of the exacting standards of scholarship and of manners and conduct she expected and achieved from the students ; ;
of her `` great power of discernment '' ; ;
of `` her exquisiteness of dress '' , `` her well-modulated voice that went straight to the hearts of the hearers '' ; ;
her great love of flowers and plants and birds ; ;
and her close knowledge of individual students .
She drew on all her resources of mind and heart to help them -- to make them at home in the world ; ;
and as graduates gratefully recall , she drew on her purse as well .
Many a student was able to remain at Spelman , only because of her unobtrusive help .
Under Miss Upton , the work of the year 1909-10 went forward without interruption .
After all , she had come to Spelman Seminary in 1888 , and had been since 1891 except for one year , Associate Principal or Dean .
She had taught classes in botany , astronomy ( with the aid of a telescope ) , geometry , and psychology .
Miss Upton and Miss Packard , as a matter of fact , had many tastes in common .
Both had eager and inquiring minds ; ;
and both believed that intellectual growth must go hand in hand with the development of sturdy character and Christian zeal .
Both loved the out-of-doors , including mountain climbing and horseback riding .
In 1890 when the trip to Europe and the Holy Land was arranged for Miss Packard , it was Miss Upton who planned the trip , and `` with rare executive ability '' bore the brunt of `` the entire pilgrimage from beginning to end '' .
So strenuous it was physically , with its days of horseback riding over rough roads that it seems an amazing feat of endurance for both Miss Packard and Miss Upton .
Yet they thrived on it .
At the Fifteenth Anniversary ( 1896 ) as already quoted , Miss Upton projected with force and eloquence the Spelman of the Future as a college of first rank , with expanding and unlimited horizons .
When Dr. Wallace Buttrick , wise in his judgment of people , declined to have the Science Building named for him , he wrote Miss Tapley ( April 7 , 1923 ) `` If you had asked me , I think I would have suggested that you name the building for Miss Upton .
Her services to the School for many years were of a very high character , and I have often thought that one of the buildings should be named for her '' .
Such were the qualities of the Acting-President of the Seminary after the death of Miss Giles .
At the meeting of the Board of Trustees , on March 3 , 1910 , Miss Upton presented the annual report of the President .
She noted that no student had been withdrawn through loss of confidence ; ;
that the enrollment showed an increase of boarding students as was desired ; ;
and that the year's work had gone forward smoothly .
She urged the importance of more thorough preparation for admission .
The raising of the $25,000 Improvement Fund two days before the time limit expired , and the spontaneous `` praise demonstration '' held afterward on the campus , were reported as events which had brought happiness to Miss Giles .
With the Fund in hand , the debt on the boilers had been paid ; ;
Rockefeller and Packard Halls had been renovated ; ;
walks laid ; ;
and ground had been broken for the superintendent's home .
Miss Upton spoke gratefully of the response of Spelman graduates and Negro friends in helping to raise the Fund , and their continuing efforts to raise money for greatly needed current expenses .
She spoke also with deep thankfulness of the many individuals and agencies whose interest and efforts through the years had made the work so fruitful in results .
Two bequests were recorded : one of $200 under the will of Mrs. Harriet A. Copp of Los Angeles ; ;
and one of $2,000 under the will of Miss Celia L. Brett of Hamilton , New York , a friend from the early days .
Miss Upton told the Trustees that the death of Miss Giles was `` the sorest grief '' the Seminary had ever been called upon to bear .
The daughters of Spelman , she said , had never known or thought of Spelman without her .
The removal of Miss Packard 18 years earlier had caused them great sorrow , but they still had Miss Giles .
Now the school was indeed bereft .
`` Yet Spelman has strong , deep roots , and will live for the blessing of generations to come '' .
Miss Mary Jane Packard , Sophia's half-sister , became ill in March , 1910 ; ;
and when school closed , she was unable to travel to Massachusetts .
She remained in Atlanta through June and July ; ;
she died on August sixth .
Before coming on a visit to Spelman in 1885 , Miss Mary had been a successful teacher in Worcester , and her position there was held open for her for a considerable period .
But she decided to stay at Spelman .
She helped with teaching as well as office work for a few years -- the catalogues show that she had classes in geography , rhetoric and bookkeeping .
Soon the office work claimed all her time .
She was closely associated with the Founders in all their trials and hardships .
Quiet and energetic , cheerful and calm , she too was a power in the development of the seminary .
Miss Giles always used to refer to her as `` Sister '' .
She served as secretary in the Seminary office for 25 years , and was in charge of correspondence , records , and bookkeeping .
The books of the school hold a memorial to her ; ;
and so do the hearts of students and of teachers .
Mary J. Packard , states a Messenger editorial , was `` efficient , pains-taking , self-effacing , loving , radiating the spirit of her Master .
With infinite patience she responded to every call , no matter at what cost to herself , and to her all went , for she was sure to have the needed information or word of cheer .
In a few school districts one finds a link between school and job .
In those vocational programs organized with Smith-Hughes money , there may be a close tie between the labor union and a local employer on the one hand and the vocational teacher on the other .
In these cases a graduate may enter directly into an apprentice program , saving a year because of his vocational courses in grades 11 and 12 .
The apprentice program will involve further education on a part-time basis , usually at night , perhaps using some of the same equipment of the high school .
These opportunities are to be found in certain cities in such crafts as auto mechanics , carpentry , drafting , electrical work , tool-and-die work , and sheet-metal work .
Formally organized vocational programs supported by federal funds allow high school students to gain experience in a field of work which is likely to lead to a full-time job on graduation .
The `` diversified occupations '' program is a part-time trade-preparatory program conducted over two school years on a cooperative basis between the school and local industrial and business employers .
The `` distributive education '' program operates in a similar way , with arrangements between the school and employers in merchandising fields .
In both cases the student attends school half-time and works in a regular job the other half .
He receives remuneration for his work .
In a few places cooperative programs between schools and employers in clerical work have shown the same possibilities for allowing the student , while still in school , to develop skills which are immediately marketable upon graduation .
Adult education courses , work-study programs of various sorts -- these are all evidence of a continuing interest of the schools in furthering educational opportunities for out-of-school youth .
In general , however , it may be said that when a boy or a girl leaves the high school , the school authorities play little or no part in the decision of what happens next .
If the student drops out of high school , the break with the school is even more complete .
When there is employment opportunity for youth , this arrangement -- or lack of arrangement -- works out quite well .
Indeed , in some periods of our history and in some neighborhoods the job opportunities have been so good that undoubtedly a great many boys who were potential members of the professions quit school at an early age and went to work .
Statistically this has represented a loss to the nation , although one must admit that in an individual case the decision in retrospect may have been a wise one .
I make no attempt to measure the enduring satisfaction and material well-being of a man who went to work on graduation from high school and was highly successful in the business which he entered .
He may or may not be `` better off '' than his classmate who went on to a college and professional school .
But in the next decades the nation needs to educate for the professions all the potential professional talent .
In a later chapter dealing with the suburban school , I shall discuss the importance of arranging a program for the academically talented and highly gifted youth in any high school where he is found .
In the Negro neighborhoods and also to some extent in the mixed neighborhoods the problem may be one of identification and motivation .
High motivation towards higher education must start early enough so that by the time the boy or girl reaches grade 9 he or she has at least developed those basic skills which are essential for academic work .
Undoubtedly far more can be done in the lower grades in this regard in the Negro schools .
However , the teacher can only go so far if the attitude of the community and the family is anti-intellectual .
And the fact remains that there are today few shining examples of Negroes in positions of intellectual leadership .
This is not due to any policy of discrimination on the part of the Northern universities .
Quite the contrary , as I can testify from personal experience as a former university president .
Rather we see here another vicious circle .
The absence of successful Negroes in the world of scholarship and science has tended to tamp down enthusiasm among Negro youth for academic careers .
I believe the situation is improving , but the success stories need to be heavily publicized .
Here again we run into the roadblock that Negroes do not like to be designated as Negroes in the press .
How can the vicious circle be broken ? ?
This is a problem to which leaders of opinion , both Negro and white , should devote far more attention .
It is at least as important as the more dramatic attempts to break down barriers of inequality in the South .
Vocational education
I should like to underline four points I made in my first report with respect to vocational education .
First and foremost , vocational courses should not replace courses which are essential parts of the required academic program for graduation .
Second , vocational courses should be provided in grades 11 and 12 and not require more than half the student's time in those years ; ;
however , for slow learners and prospective dropouts these courses ought to begin earlier .
Third , the significance of the vocational courses is that those enrolled are keenly interested in the work ; ;
they realize the relevance of what they are learning to their future careers , and this sense of purpose is carried over to the academic courses which they are studying at the same time .
Fourth , the type of vocational training programs should be related to the employment opportunities in the general locality .
This last point is important because if high school pupils are aware that few , if any , graduates who have chosen a certain vocational program have obtained a job as a consequence of the training , the whole idea of relevance disappears .
Vocational training which holds no hope that the skill developed will be in fact a marketable skill becomes just another school `` chore '' for those whose interest in their studies has begun to falter .
Those who , because of population mobility and the reputed desire of employers to train their own employees , would limit vocational education to general rather than specific skills ought to bear in mind the importance of motivation in any kind of school experience .
I have been using the word `` vocational '' as a layman would at first sight think it should be used .
I intend to include under the term all the practical courses open to boys and girls .
These courses develop skills other than those we think of when we use the adjective `` academic '' .
Practically all of these practical skills are of such a nature that a degree of mastery can be obtained in high school sufficient to enable the youth to get a job at once on the basis of the skill .
They are in this sense skills marketable immediately on graduation from high school .
To be sure , in tool-and-die work and in the building trades , the first job must be often on an apprentice basis , but two years of half-time vocational training enables the young man thus to anticipate one year of apprentice status .
Similarly , a girl who graduates with a good working knowledge of stenography and the use of clerical machines and who is able to get a job at once may wish to improve her skill and knowledge by a year or two of further study in a community college or secretarial school .
Of course , it can be argued that an ability to write English correctly and with some degree of elegance is a marketable skill .
So , too , is the mathematical competence of a college graduate who has majored in mathematics .
In a sense almost all high school and college courses could be considered as vocational to the extent that later in life the student in his vocation ( which may be a profession ) will be called upon to use some of the skills developed and the competence obtained .
In spite of the shading of one type of course into another , I believe it is useful to talk about vocational courses as apart from academic courses .
Perhaps a course in typewriting might be regarded as the exception which proves the rule .
Today many college bound students try to take a course in personal typing , as they feel a certain degree of mastery of this skill is almost essential for one who proposes to do academic work in college and a professional school .
Most of our largest cities have one or more separate vocational or technical high schools .
In this respect , public education in the large cities differs from education in the smaller cities and consolidated school districts .
The neighborhood high schools are not , strictly speaking , comprehensive schools , because some of the boys and girls may be attending a vocational or technical high school instead of the local school .
Indeed , one school superintendent in a large city objects to the use of the term comprehensive high school for the senior high schools in his city , because these schools do not offer strictly vocational programs .
He prefers to designate such schools as `` general '' high schools .
The suburban high school , it is worth noting , also is not a widely comprehensive high school because of the absence of vocational programs .
The reason is that there is a lack of interest on the part of the community .
Therefore employment and education in all the schools in a metropolitan area are related in different ways from those which are characteristic of the comprehensive high school described in my first report .
The separate vocational or technical high schools in the large cities must be reckoned as permanent institutions .
By and large their programs are satisfactorily connected both to the employment situation and to the realities of the apprentice system .
It is not often realized to what degree certain trades are in many communities closed areas of employment , except for a lucky few .
One has to talk confidentially with some of the directors of vocational high schools to realize that a boy cannot just say , `` I want to be a plumber '' , and then , by doing good work , find a job .
It is far more difficult in many communities to obtain admission to an apprentice program which involves union approval than to get into the most selective medical school in the nation .
Two stories will illustrate what I have in mind .
One vocational instructor in a city vocational school , speaking of his course in a certain field , said he had no difficulty placing all students in jobs outside of the city .
In the city , he said , the waiting list for those who want to join the union is so long that unless a boy has an inside track he can't get in .
In a far distant part of the United States , I was talking to an instructor about a boy who in the twelfth grade was doing special work .
`` What does he have in mind to do when he graduates '' ? ?
`` Oh , he'll be a plumber '' , came the answer .
`` But isn't it almost impossible to get into the union '' ? ?
I asked .
`` He'll have no difficulty '' , I was told .
`` He has very good connections '' .
In my view , there should be a school which offers significant vocational programs for boys within easy reach of every family in a city .
Ideally these schools should be so located that one or more should be in the area where demand for practical courses is at the highest .
An excellent example of a successful location of a new vocational high school is the Dunbar Vocational High School in Chicago .
Located in a bad slum area now undergoing redevelopment , this school and its program are especially tailored to the vocational aims of its students .
Hardly a window has been broken since Dunbar first was opened ( and vandalism in schools is a major problem in many slum areas ) .
I discovered in the course of a visit there that almost all the pupils were Negroes .
They were learning trades as diverse as shoe repairing , bricklaying , carpentry , cabinet making , auto mechanics , and airplane mechanics .
The physical facilities at Dunbar are impressive , but more impressive is the attitude of the pupils .
The soybean seed is the most important leguminous food in the world .
In the United States , where half of the world crop is grown , soybeans are processed for their edible oil .
The residue from soybean processing goes mainly into animal feeds .
Soybeans are extensively processed into a remarkable number of food products in the Orient .
American chemists , seeking to increase exports of soybeans , have adapted modern techniques and fermentation methods to improve their use in such traditional Japanese foods as tofu and miso and in tempeh of Indonesia .
Soybean flour , grits , flakes , `` milk '' , and curd can be bought in the United States .
Peanuts are the world's second most important legume .
They are used mainly for their oil .
We produce peanut oil , but to a much greater extent we eat the entire seed .
Blanched peanuts , as prepared for making peanut butter or for eating as nuts , are roasted seeds whose seedcoats have been rubbed off .
Cereal grains , supplemented with soybeans or dry edible peas or beans , comprise about two-thirds or three-fourths of the diet in parts of Asia and Africa .
In western Europe and North America , where the level of economic development is higher , grains and other seed products furnish less than one-third of the food consumed .
Rather , meat and potatoes , sugar , and dairy products are the main sources of carbohydrate , protein , oils , and fats .
People depend less on seeds for foods in Australia , New Zealand , and Argentina , where extensive grazing lands support sheep or cattle , and the consumption of meat is high .
Feeds for livestock took about one-sixth of the world's cereal crop in 1957-1958 .
Most of the grain is fed to swine and dairy cows and lesser amounts to beef cattle and poultry .
About 90 percent of the corn used in the United States is fed to animals .
The rest is used for human food and industrial products .
More than half of the sorghum and barley seeds we produce and most of the byproducts of the milling of cereals and the crushing of oilseeds are fed to livestock .
More than 200 million tons of seeds and seed products are fed to livestock annually in the United States .
The efficiency with which animals convert grains and forages to meat has risen steadily in the United States since the 1930's and has paralleled the increased feeding of the cake and meal that are a byproduct when seeds are processed for oil .
The demand for food is so great in the world that little arable land can be given over to growing the nonfood crops .
Seeds grown for industrial uses hold a relatively minor position .
Chief among the seed crops grown primarily for industrial uses are the oil-bearing seeds -- flax , castor , tung ( nuts from the China wood-oil tree ) , perilla ( from an Oriental mint ) , and oiticica ( from a Brazilian tree ) .
Oils , or liquid fats , from the seeds of flax and tung have long been the principal constituents of paints and varnishes for protecting and beautifying the surfaces of wood and metal .
These oils develop hard , smooth films when they dry and form resinlike substances .
The artist who paints in oil uses drying oils to carry the pigments and to protect his finished work for the ages .
One of the finest of artists' oils comes from poppy seeds .
Seeds of soybean , cotton , corn , sesame , and rape yield semidrying oils .
Some are used in paints along with drying oils .
Palm oil protects the surfaces of steel sheets before they are plated with tin .
Castor oil , made from castorbeans , has gone out of style as a medicine .
This nondrying oil , however , is now more in demand than ever before as a fine lubricant , as a constituent of fluids for hydraulically operated equipment , and as a source of chemicals to make plastics .
Almond oil , another nondrying oil , was once used extensively in perfumery to extract flower fragrances .
It is still used in drugs and cosmetics , but it is rather scarce and sometimes is adulterated with oils from peach and plum seeds .
Liquid fats from all these oilseeds enter into the manufacture of soaps for industry and the household and of glycerin for such industrial uses as making explosives .
Sizable amounts of soybean , coconut , and palm kernel oil -- seed oils that are produced primarily for food purposes -- also are used to make soaps , detergents , and paint resins .
Solid fats from the seeds of the mahua tree , the shea tree , and the coconut palm are used to make candles in tropical countries .
Seeds are a main source of starch for industrial and food use in many parts of the world .
Corn and wheat supply most of the starch in the United States , Canada , and Australia .
In other countries where cereal grains are not among the principal crops of a region , starchy tubers or roots are processed for starch .
Starch is used in the paper , textile , and food-processing industries and in a multitude of other manufacturing operations .
Gums were extracted from quince , psyllium ( fleawort ) , flax , and locust ( carob ) seeds in ancient times .
Today the yearly import into the United States of locust bean gum is more than 15 million pounds ; ;
of psyllium seed , more than 2.6 million .
The discovery during the Second World War that guar gum was similar to imported locust gum increased its cultivation in western Asia and initiated it in the United States .
Water-soluble gums are used in foods and drugs and in the manufacture of pulp and paper as thickeners , stabilizers , or dispersing agents .
Guar gum thickens salad dressings and stabilizes ice cream .
Quince seed gum is the main ingredient in wave-setting lotions .
Once regarded as an agricultural nuisance , psyllium was sold in the 1930's as a mechanical laxative under 117 different brands .
Locust gum is added to pulp slurries to break up the lumps of fibers in making paper .
The seeds of hard , fibrous , stony fruits , called nuts , provide highly concentrated foods , oils , and other materials of value .
Most nuts consist of the richly packaged storage kernel and its thick , adherent , brown covering -- the seedcoat .
The kernels of brazil nuts , cashews , coconuts , filberts , hazelnuts , hickory nuts , pecans , walnuts , and pine nuts are predominantly oily .
Almonds and pistachio nuts are not so high in oil but are rich in protein .
Chestnuts are starchy .
All nut kernels are rich in protein .
The world production of familiar seed nuts -- almonds , brazil nuts , filberts , and the English walnuts -- totals about 300 thousand tons annually .
Coconuts , the fruit of the coconut palm , have the largest of all known seeds and are grown in South Pacific islands as a crop for domestic and export markets .
The oil palm of West Africa yields edible oil from both the flesh and the seed or kernel of its fruit .
World production of copra , the oil-bearing flesh of the coconut , was a little more than 3 million tons in 1959 .
Exports from producing countries in terms of equivalent oil were a little more than 1 million tons , about half of which was palm kernels or oil from them and about half was palm oil .
Other nuts consumed in lesser quantity include the spicy nutmeg ; ;
the soap nut , which owes its sudsing power to natural saponins ; ;
the marking nut , used for ink and varnish ; ;
the aromatic sassafras nut of South America ; ;
and the sweet-smelling cumara nut , which is suited for perfumes .
A forest crop that has not been extensively cultivated is ivory nuts from the tagua palm .
The so-called vegetable ivory is the hard endosperm of the egg-sized seed .
It is used for making buttons and other small , hard objects of turnery .
Seeds of the sago palm are used in Bermuda to make heads and faces of dolls sold to tourists .
The color and shape of seeds have long made them attractive for ornaments and decorations .
Since Biblical times , rosaries have been made from jobs-tears -- the seeds of an Asiatic grass .
Bead tree seeds are the necklaces of South Pacific islanders and the eyes of Buddha dolls in Cuba .
Victorian ladies had a fad of stringing unusual seeds to wear as jewelry .
Handmade Christmas wreaths and trees often contain a variety of seeds collected during the year .
Tradition has assigned medicinal values to seeds because of their alkaloids , aromatic oils , and highly flavored components .
Although science has given us more effective materials , preparations from anise , castorbean , colchicum , nux vomica , mustard , fennel , and stramonium are familiar to many for the relief of human ailments .
Flaxseed poultices and mustard plasters still are used by some persons .
Peanut and sesame oils often are used as carriers or diluents for medicines administered by injection .
Still another group of seeds ( sometimes tiny , dry , seed-bearing fruits ) provide distinctive flavors and odors to foods , although the nutrients they supply are quite negligible .
The common spices , flavorings , and condiments make up this group .
Each year millions of pounds of anise , caraway , mustard , celery , and coriander and the oils extracted from them are imported .
Single-seeded dry fruits used for flavoring include several of the carrot family , such as cumin , dill , fennel , and angelica .
Less common seeds used in cooking and beverages include fenugreek ( artificial maple flavor ) and cardamom .
White pepper is the ground seed of the common black pepper fruit .
Sesame seed , which comes from the tall pods of a plant grown in Egypt , Brazil , and Central America , has a toasted-nut flavor and can be used in almost any dish calling for almonds .
It is a main flavoring for halvah , the candy of the Middle East .
Sesame sticks , a snack dip , originated in the Southwest .
Beverages are made from seeds the world over .
Coffee is made from the roasted and ground seeds of the coffee tree .
World production of coffee broke all previous records in 1959 and 1960 at more than 5 million tons .
Per capita consumption remains around 16 pounds in the United States .
Cocoa , chocolate , and cocoa butter come from the ground seeds of the cacao tree .
World production of about 1 million tons is divided primarily between Africa ( 63 percent ) and South America ( 27 percent ) .
Several soft drinks contain extracts from kola nuts , the seed of the kola tree cultivated in the West Indies and South America .
Cereal grains have been used for centuries to prepare fermented beverages .
The Japanese sake is wine fermented from rice grain .
Arrack is distilled from fermented rice in India .
Beer , generally fermented from barley , is an old alcoholic beverage .
Beer was brewed by the Babylonians and Egyptians more than 6 thousand years ago .
Brewers today use corn , rice , and malted barley .
Distillers use corn , malt , wheat , grain sorghum , and rye in making beverage alcohol .
Seed crops hold a prominent place in the agricultural economy of the United States .
The farm value of seeds produced in this country for all purposes , including the cereals , is nearly 10 billion dollars a year .
Cereal grains , oilseeds , and dry beans and peas account for about 57 percent of the farm value of all crops raised .
The economic importance of seed crops actually is even greater , because additional returns are obtained from most of the corn , oats , barley , and sorghum -- as well as the cake and meal from the processing of flaxseed , cottonseed , and soybeans -- through conversion to poultry , meat , and dairy products .
Seeds furnish about 40 percent of the total nutrients consumed by all livestock .
Hay and pasture are the other chief sources of livestock feed .
Seeds are the essential raw materials for milling grain , baking , crushing oilseed , refining edible oil , brewing , distilling , and mixing feed .
More than 11 thousand business establishments in the United States were based on cereals and oilseeds in 1954 .
The value of products from these industries was 15.8 billion dollars , of which about one-third was created by manufacturing processes .
Not included was the value of seed oil in paints and varnishes or the value of the coffee and chocolate industries that are based on imported seed or seed products .
Cereal grains furnish about one-fourth of the total food calories in the American diet and about one-third of the total nutrients consumed by all livestock and poultry .
To hold a herd of cattle on a new range till they felt at home was called `` locatin' '' 'em .
To keep 'em scattered somewhat and yet herd 'em was called `` loose herdin' '' .
To hold 'em in a compact mass was `` close herdin' '' .
Cattle were inclined to remain in a territory with which they were acquainted .
That became their `` home range '' .
Yet there were always some that moved farther and farther out , seekin' grass and water .
These became `` strays '' , the term bein' restricted to cattle , however , as hosses , under like circumstances , were spoken of as `` stray hosses '' , not merely `` strays '' .
Cattle would drift day and night in a blizzard till it was over .
You couldn't stop 'em ; ;
you had to go with 'em or wait till the storm was over , and follow .
Such marchin' in wholesale numbers was called a `` drift '' , or `` winter drift '' , and if the storm was prolonged it usually resulted in one of the tragedies of the range .
The cowboy made a technical distinction in reference to the number of them animals .
The single animal or a small bunch were referred to as `` strays '' ; ;
but when a large number were `` bunched up '' or `` banded up '' , and marched away from their home range , as long as they stayed together the group was said to be a `` drift '' .
Drifts usually occurred in winter in an effort to escape the severe cold winds , but it could also occur in summer as the result of lack of water or grass because of a drought , or as an aftermath of a stampede .
Drifts usually happened only with cattle , for hosses had 'nough sense to avoid 'em , and to find shelter for 'emselves .
The wholesale death of cattle as a result of blizzards , and sometimes droughts , over a wide range of territory was called a `` die-up '' .
Followin' such an event there was usually a harvest of `` fallen hides '' , and the ranchers needed skinnin' knives instead of brandin' irons .
Cattle were said to be `` potted '' when `` blizzard choked '' , that is , caught in a corner or a draw , or against a `` drift fence '' durin' a storm .
Cattle which died from them winter storms were referred to as the `` winter kill '' .
When cattle in winter stopped and humped their backs up they were said to `` bow up '' .
This term was also used by the cowboy in the sense of a human showin' fight , as one cowhand was heard to say , `` He arches his back like a mule in a hailstorm '' .
Cattle drove to the northern ranges and held for two winters to mature 'em into prime beef were said to be `` double wintered '' .
Cattle brought into a range from a distance were called `` immigrants '' .
Them new to the country were referred to as `` pilgrims '' .
This word was first applied to the imported hot-blooded cattle , but later was more commonly used as reference to a human tenderfoot .
Hereford cattle were often called `` white faces '' , or `` open-face cattle '' , and the old-time cowman gave the name of `` hothouse stock '' to them newly introduced cattle .
Because Holstein cattle weren't a beef breed , they were rarely seen on a ranch , though one might be found now and then for the milk supply .
The cowboy called this breed of cattle `` magpies '' .
A `` cattaloe '' was a hybrid offspring of buffalo and cattle .
`` Dry stock '' denoted , regardless of age or sex , such bovines as were givin' no milk .
A `` wet herd '' was a herd of cattle made up entirely of cows , while `` wet stuff '' referred to cows givin' milk .
The cowboy's humorous name for a cow givin' milk was a `` milk pitcher '' .
Cows givin' no milk were knowed as `` strippers '' .
The terminology of the range , in speakin' of `` dry stock '' and `` wet stock '' , was confusin' to the tenderfoot .
The most common reference to `` wet stock '' was with the meanin' that such animals had been smuggled across the Rio Grande after bein' stolen from their rightful owners .
The term soon became used and applied to all stolen animals .
`` Mixed herd '' meant a herd of mixed sexes , while a `` straight steer herd '' was one composed entirely of steers , and when the cowman spoke of `` mixed cattle '' , he meant cattle of various grades , ages , and sexes .
In the spring when penned cattle were turned out to grass , this was spoken of as `` turn-out time '' , or `` put to grass '' .
`` Shootin' 'em out '' was gettin' cattle out of a corral onto the range .
When a cow came out of a corral in a crouchin' run she was said to `` come out a-stoopin' '' .
To stir cattle up and get 'em heated and excited was to `` mustard the cattle '' , and the act was called `` ginnin' 'em 'round '' , or `` chousin' 'em '' .
After a roundup the pushin' of stray cattle of outside brands toward their home range was called `` throwin' over '' .
A cow rose from the ground rear end first .
By the time her hindquarters were in a standin' position , her knees were on the ground in a prayin' attitude .
It was when she was in this position that the name `` prayin' cow '' was suggested to the cowboy .
They were said to be `` on their heads '' when grazin' .
`` On the hoof '' was a reference to live cattle and was also used in referrin' to cattle travelin' by trail under their own power as against goin' by rail .
Shippin' cattle by train was called a `` stock run '' .
A general classification given grass-fed cattle was `` grassers '' .
When a cowboy spoke of `` dustin' '' a cow , he meant that he throwed dust into her eyes .
The cow , unlike a bull or steer , kept her eyes open and her mind on her business when chargin' , and a cow `` on the prod '' or `` on the peck '' was feared by the cowhand more than any of his other charges .
The Injun's name for beef was `` wohaw '' , and many of the old frontiersmen adopted it from their association with the Injun on the trails .
The first cattle the Injuns saw under the white man's control were the ox teams of the early freighters .
Listenin' with wonder at the strange words of the bullwhackers as they shouted `` Whoa '' , `` Haw '' , and `` Gee '' , they thought them words the names of the animals , and began callin' cattle `` wohaws '' .
Rarely did a trail herd pass through the Injun country on its march north that it wasn't stopped to receive demand for `` wohaw '' .
`` Tailin' '' was the throwin' of an animal by the tail in lieu of a rope .
Any animal could when travelin' fast , be sent heels over head by the simple process of overtakin' the brute , seizin' its tail , and givin' the latter a pull to one side .
This throwed the animal off balance , and over it'd crash onto its head and shoulders .
Though the slightest yank was frequently capable of producin' results , many men assured success through a turn of the tail 'bout the saddle horn , supplemented sometimes , in the case of cattle , by a downward heave of the rider's leg upon the strainin' tail .
Such tactics were resorted to frequently with the unmanageable longhorns , and a thorough `` tailin' '' usually knocked the breath out of a steer , and so dazed 'im that he'd behave for the rest of the day .
It required both a quick and swift hoss and a darin' rider .
When cattle became more valuable , ranch owners frowned upon this practice and it was discontinued , at least when the boss was 'round .
When the cowboy used the word `` tailin's '' , he meant stragglers .
`` Bull tailin' '' was a game once pop'lar with the Mexican cowboys of Texas .
From a pen of wild bulls one would be released , and with much yellin' a cowhand'd take after 'im .
Seizin' the bull by the tail , he rushed his hoss forward and a little to one side , throwin' the bull off balance , and `` bustin' '' 'im with terrific force .
Rammin' one horn of a downed steer into the ground to hold 'im down was called `` peggin' '' .
Colors of cattle came in for their special names .
An animal covered with splotches or spots of different colors was called a `` brindle '' or `` brockle '' .
A `` lineback '' was an animal with a stripe of different color from the rest of its body runnin' down its back , while a `` lobo stripe '' was the white , yeller , or brown stripe runnin' down the back , from neck to tail , a characteristic of many Spanish cattle .
A `` mealynose '' was a cow or steer of the longhorn type , with lines and dots of a color lighter'n the rest of its body 'round the eyes , face , and nose .
Such an animal was said to be `` mealynosed '' .
`` Sabinas '' was a Spanish word used to describe cattle of red and white peppered and splotched colorin' .
The northern cowboy called all the red Mexican cattle which went up the trail `` Sonora reds '' , while they called all cattle drove up from Mexico `` yaks '' , because they came from the Yaqui Injun country , or gave 'em the name of `` Mexican buckskins '' .
Near the southern border , cattle of the early longhorn breed whose coloration was black with a lineback , with white speckles frequently appearin' on the sides and belly , were called `` zorrillas '' .
This word was from the Spanish , meanin' `` polecat '' .
`` Yeller bellies '' were cattle of Mexican breed splotched on flank and belly with yellerish color .
An animal with distinct coloration , or other marks easily distinguished and remembered by the owner and his riders , was sometimes used as a `` marker '' .
Such an animal has frequently been the downfall of the rustler .
Countin' each grazin' bunch of cattle where it was found on the range and driftin' it back so that it didn't mix with the uncounted cattle was called a `` range count '' .
The countin' of cattle in a pasture without throwin' 'em together for the purpose was called a `` pasture count '' .
The counters rode through the pasture countin' each bunch of grazin' cattle , and drifted it back so that it didn't get mixed with the uncounted cattle ahead .
This method of countin' was usually done at the request , and in the presence , of a representative of the bank that held the papers against the herd .
Them notes and mortgages were spoken of as `` cattle paper '' .
A `` book count '' was the sellin' of cattle by the books , commonly resorted to in the early days , sometimes much to the profit of the seller .
This led to the famous sayin' in the Northwest of the `` books won't freeze '' .
This became a common byword durin' the boom days when Eastern and foreign capital were so eager to buy cattle interests .
The origin of this sayin' was credited to a saloonkeeper by the name of Luke Murrin .
His saloon was a meetin' place for influential Wyoming cattlemen , and one year durin' a severe blizzard , when his herd-owner customers were wearin' long faces , he said , `` Cheer up , boys , whatever happens , the books won't freeze '' .
In this carefree sentence he summed up the essence of the prevailin' custom of buyin' by book count , and created a sayin' which has survived through the years .
`` Range delivery '' meant that the buyer , after examinin' the seller's ranch records and considerin' his rep'tation for truthfulness , paid for what the seller claimed to own , then rode out and tried to find it .
When a cowhand said that a man had `` good cow sense '' , he meant to pay 'im a high compliment .
No matter by what name cattle were called , there was no denyin' that they not only saved Texas from financial ruin , but went far toward redeemin' from a wilderness vast territories of the Northwest .
21 swingin' a wide loop
the first use of the word `` rustler '' was as a synonym for `` hustler '' , becomin' an established term for any person who was active , pushin' , and bustlin' in any enterprise .
Again it was used as the title for the hoss wrangler , and when the order was given to go out and `` rustle the hosses '' , it meant for 'im to go out and herd 'em in .
Eventually herdin' the hosses was spoken of as `` hoss rustlin' '' , and the wrangler was called the `` hoss rustler '' .
Later , the word became almost exclusively applied to a cow thief , startin' from the days of the maverick when cowhands were paid by their employers to `` get out and rustle a few mavericks '' .
It was John who found the lion tracks .
He found them near the carcass of a zebra that had been killed the night before , and he circled once , nose to the ground , hair shooting up along his back , as it did when he was after lion or bear , and then he lifted his head and bayed , and the pack joined in , all heads high , and Jones knew it was a hot trail .
He stifled the Comanche yell and let John lead him straight toward the nearby black volcanic mountain .
This mountain was known as The Black Reef and it rose almost perpendicularly for about two hundred feet , honeycombed with caves , top covered with dense scrub and creepers and tall grass .
On the south it ended sharply as though the lava had been cut off there suddenly .
Kearton and Ulyate had started the day together while Jones followed the dogs , and Means and Loveless had taken another route , and now , with the discovery of the fresh trail still unknown to him , Ulyate reined in , in the shadow of the Reef and pointed .
Kearton focussed his field glasses .
`` That's the Colonel '' , he said , `` But I can't see the dogs '' .
As they watched , Jones rode straight for the Reef .
Then they picked up the smaller black specks on the plain in front of him .
The dogs were working a trail -- lion ? ?
Hyena ? ?
The pack had made a bend to the north , swinging back toward the Reef , and Kearton and Ulyate could hear them faintly .
Kearton got off and tore up some dry grass that grew in cracks between the rocks and piled it in a heap and wanted to make the smoke signal that would bring Loveless and Means and the rest of the party .
`` Not yet '' , cautioned Ulyate .
Jones came toward them fast , now , along the southern toe of the Reef , and the dogs could be heard plainly , Old John with his Grand Canyon voice outstanding above the others .
There was Sounder , too , also a veteran of the North Rim , and Rastus and the Rake from a pack of English fox-hounds , and a collie from a London pound , and Simba , a terrier .
A motley pack , chosen for effectiveness , not beauty .
Jones was galloping close behind them leaning down , cheering them on .
`` Light it '' ! !
Ulyate said , and Kearton touched a match to the pile of grass , blew on it and flame licked out .
He threw green stuff on it , and a thin blue column of smoke rose .
`` That will fetch the gang and tell the Colonel where we are '' .
Two quick shots sounded .
Then there was a chorus of wild barking and baying .
Then the heavy roar of a lion .
Kearton and Ulyate looked at each other and began to gallop toward the sound .
It came from the top of the Reef not half a mile away .
At the base of the rocky hillside , they left their horses and climbed on foot .
The route was choked with rugged lava-rocks , creepers and bushes , so thickly overgrown that when Kearton lost sight of Ulyate and called , Ulyate answered from ten feet away .
Nice country to meet a lion in face to face .
Ulyate and Kearton climbed on toward the sound of the barking of the dogs and the sporadic roaring of the lion , till they came , out of breath , to the crest , and peering through the branches of a bush , this is what Ulyate saw : Jones who had apparently ( and actually had ) ridden up the nearly impassable hillside , sitting calmly on his horse within forty feet of a full-grown young lioness , who was crouched on a flat rock and seemed just about to charge him , while the dogs whirled around her .
Ulyate drew back with a start , and put finger to lips , almost afraid to move or whisper lest it set her off , `` The dogs have got her bayed .
She's just the other side of that bush '' ! !
And when they had drawn back a step he added : `` Jones is sitting on his horse right in front of her .
Why she doesn't charge him , I don't know .
And he hasn't even got a knife on him .
He couldn't get away from her in this kind of ground .
Careful , don't disturb her '' .
Jones had been about a hundred and fifty feet from her when he first broke through to the top of the Reef .
She was standing on a flat rock three feet above ground and when she saw him she rose to full height and roared , opening her mouth wide , lashing her tail , and stamping at the rock with both forefeet in irritation , as much as to say : `` How dare you disturb me in my sacred precinct '' ? ?
Intuition told him , however , that she was tired and winded from the run up the Reef and would not charge , yet .
He moved forward to within thirty-five feet of her , being careful , because he knew the female is less predictable than the male .
( In the graveyard at Nairobi he had been shown the graves of thirty-four big game hunters killed hunting the animals he was attempting to lasso .
Of the thirty-four , seventeen had been killed by lions , and eleven out of the seventeen by lionesses .
) She snarled terribly but intuition told him , again , that she was bluffing , and he could see that half her attention was distracted by the dogs .
He threw the lasso .
It was falling over her head when a branch of a bush caught it and it fell in front of her on the rock .
Even then , if she took one step forward he could catch her .
But John nipped her rear end -- one lion's rear end was as good as another to John , Africa , Arizona no matter -- and she changed ends and took a swipe at John , but he ducked back .
Jones then recoiled his rope and threw again , this time hitting her on the back but failing to encircle her .
She whirled and faced him , roaring terribly , and Ulyate , watching through the leaves , could not understand why she did not charge and obliterate him , because he wouldn't have much of a chance of getting away , in that thick growth , but she seemed just a trace uncertain ; ;
while Jones , on the other hand , appeared perfectly confident and Ulyate decided perhaps that was the answer .
From the lioness' point of view , this strange creature on the back of another creature , lashing out with its long thin paw , very likely appeared as something she could not at first cope with .
But now she sank lower to the rock .
Her roar changed to a growl .
Her tail no longer lashed .
Although she appeared more subdued and defeated , Jones knew she was growing more dangerous .
She was rested and could mount a charge .
Just the tip of her tail was moving as she crouched , and she was treading lightly up and down with her hind feet .
At this moment , Loveless and Means arrived , crashing through the undergrowth with their horses , and distracted her , and she ran off a short distance and jumped into a crevice between two rocks .
The dogs followed her and she killed three and badly wounded Old John .
`` We've got to get her out of there '' ! !
Jones yelled , `` or she'll kill 'em all .
Bring me the firecrackers '' .
For such an emergency he had included Fourth-of-July cannon crackers as part of their equipment .
Lighting one he pitched it into the crevice , and the lioness left off mauling the dogs and departed .
`` Ain't she a beauty , though '' ? ?
Called out Means as she ran .
`` Don't you go a step nearer her than I do '' , Jones warned , `` and if you do , go at a run so you'll have momentum '' ! !
For two hours they drove her from one strong point to another along the side of the Reef , trying to maneuver her onto the plain where they could get a good throw .
But she clung to the rocks and brush , and the day wore away .
It was hot .
The dogs were tired .
The men were tired too .
It was the story of the rhinoceros fight all over again .
And the sun was beginning to go down .
If dark came they would lose her .
`` I'll get a pole '' , Jones said finally , `` and I'll poke a noose over her head '' ! !
At this moment she was crouched in a cave-like aperture halfway down the Reef .
Ulyate made no comment but his face showed what he thought of poking ropes over lions' heads with poles , and of course these were the lions of fifty years ago , not the gentler ones of today , and this one was angry , with good reason .
Loveless , too , objected .
`` It won't work , Colonel '' .
`` Just the same we'll try it '' .
But without waiting for them to try it , she scattered the dogs and shot down the Reef and out across the plain .
John led the chase after her and the other dogs strung out behind , many of them trailing blood .
John himself was bruised and clawed from head to tail , but he was in this fight to the finish , running almost as strongly now as in the morning .
She took refuge on a tongue of land extending into a gully , crouched at the base of a thorn tree , and waited for them to come up .
She had chosen the spot well .
With the gully on three sides , she could be approached only along the tongue of land .
`` Careful , now '' , Jones warned .
Means tried her first .
Very slowly he maneuvered his rawboned bay gelding , edging closer , watching for a chance to throw , but ready to spin and run , rope whining about his head , horse edging tensely under him , but the gelding was obedient and responded and was not paralyzed by the close proximity of the lion .
They tell you horses go crazy at the sight or smell of a bear or a lion , but these didn't .
Means edged closer .
She snarled warningly .
Means spit and edged on .
Again she snarled , and again he edged .
The pony was sidewise to her .
With a whirling jump , it could get into gear .
However nothing on four legs was supposed to be faster than a lion over a short distance , unless it was a cheetah .
She charged .
Means spun and spurred .
For thirty yards she gained rapidly .
She was closing and within one more bound would have been able to reach the rear end of the bay , but -- and here Jones and Loveless and Ulyate were holding breath for all they were worth -- she never quite caught up that last bound .
Means held steady one jump ahead of her .
Then gradually he began to pull away .
A Western cowpony had outrun an African lion , from a standing start .
Photos showed later that she'd been about six feet from Means .
Of course the factor of head start made all the difference .
How much head start ? ?
No one knew exactly .
That was the whole question .
Enough , was the answer .
The lioness quickly changed front , when she saw she couldn't catch Means , and made for Jones .
As she had done with Means , she gained rapidly at first , but then Baldy began to draw away .
Somewhere in the few scant yards of head start was the determining point .
When Jones too drew away , she returned to a thorn bush in the neck of land running into the gully , crouched low and waited as before .
This new position , however , gave the ropers a better chance .
There was room to make a quick dash past the bush and throw as you went .
So : Means edged around on the north side of her , Jones moved in from the south .
Tossing his rope and shouting he attracted her attention .
He succeeded almost too well , because once she rose as if to charge , and he half wheeled his horse -- he was within fifty feet -- but she sank back .
From behind her Means shot forward at a run .
Kearton began shouting , `` Wait , wait -- the camera's jammed '' ! !
But Means kept on .
He raced by within twenty feet of her , roped her around the neck , but a lioness' neck is short and thick and with a quick twist she slipped the noose off .
The missionary obligation to proclaim the gospel to all the world was once left to zealous individuals and voluntary societies .
But the time came when a church that had no part in the missionary movement was looked upon as deficient in its essential life .
The Christian education of children , too , was once hardly more than a sideshow , but the day came when a congregation that did not assume full oversight of a church school was thought of as failing in its duty .
The most serious weakness of the ecumenical movement today is that it is generally regarded as the responsibility of a few national leaders in each denomination and a few interdenominational executives .
Most pastors and laymen , even though they believe it to be important , assume that the ecumenical movement lies outside the province of their parishes .
They may even dismiss it from their minds as something that concerns only the `` ecclesiastical Rover Boys '' , as someone has dubbed them , who like to go to national and international assemblies , and have expense accounts that permit them to do so .
As long as this point of view prevails , the ecumenical movement will be lame and halt .
The next stage ahead is that of making it thoroughly at home in the local community .
Progress will take place far less through what is done in any `` summit conference '' of the National Council or the World Council , or even in offices of the denominational boards , than through what happens in the communities where Christian people live together as neighbors .
The front line of advance is where witnessing and worshiping congregations of different traditions exist side by side .
Until they see the ecumenical movement in terms of the difference it makes in their own attitudes , programs , and relationships , it will have an inevitable aspect of unreality .
As things now stand , there is a grievous disparity between the unity in Christ which we profess in ecumenical meetings and the complacent separateness of most congregations on any Main Street in the nation .
The ecumenical congregation
The crux of ecumenical advance is an even more personalized matter than the relation between congregations in the same community .
The decisive question is what happens within each congregation and , finally , in the minds and hearts of the individual members .
It is here that the local and ecumenical must meet .
It is here that the ecumenical must become local and the local become ecumenical .
It has become almost trite to say that the ecumenical movement must be `` carried down to the grass roots '' .
This way of describing the matter is unfortunate .
It implies two misconceptions .
One is that whatever is ecumenical has to do with some over-all organization at `` the top '' and needs only to be understood at the so-called `` lower levels '' .
The truth , however , is that the ecumenical church is just the local church in its own true character as an integral unit of the whole People of God throughout the world .
The other misconception is that our ecumenical problems will be solved if only the knowledge of the church in its world-wide extension and its interdenominational connections , now comprehended by many national leaders , can be communicated to all congregations .
However needed this may be , the fundamental problem is not information but active commitment to the total mission of the church of Christ in the world .
The basic unit in the church , of whatever denominational polity , is always the congregation .
It is hardly possible to emphasize this too much .
Most people do not realize that the congregation , as a gathered fellowship meeting regularly face to face , personally sharing in a common experience and expressing that experience in daily relationships with one another , is unique .
The idea that it is a feature of all religions is entirely mistaken .
The Jewish synagogue affords a parallel to the Christian congregation , but Hinduism , Buddhism , Islam , Confucianism , Taoism , Shintoism , although they have sacred scriptures , priests , spiritual disciplines , and places of prayer , do not have a congregation as a local household of faith and love .
Their characteristic experience is that of the individual at an altar or a shrine rather than that of a continuing social group with a distinctive kind of fellowship .
How far the fellowship in most local churches falls below what the New Testament means by koinonia ! !
What is now called Christian fellowship is often little more than the social chumminess of having a gracious time with the kind of people one likes .
The koinonia of Acts and of the Epistles means sharing in a common relation to Christ .
It is an experience of a new depth of community derived from an awareness of the corporate indwelling of Christ in His people .
As Dietrich Bonhoffer puts it , `` Our community with one another consists solely in what Christ has done to both of us '' .
This may mean having fellowship in the church with people with whom , on the level of merely human agreeableness , we might prefer not to have any association at all .
There is a vast difference between the community of reconciliation which the New Testament describes and the community of congeniality found in the average church building .
Whenever a congregation really sees itself as a unit in the universal Church , in vital relation with the whole Body of Christ and participating in His mission to the world , a necessary foundation-stone of the ecumenical movement has been laid .
The antithesis of the ecumenical and the local then no longer exists .
The local and the ecumenical are one .
Of course , the perspective of those who are dealing directly with the world-wide problems of the People of God will always be different from the perspective of those who are dealing with the nearby problems of particular persons in a particular place .
Each viewpoint is valid if it is organically related to the other .
Neither is adequate if it stands alone .
Our difficulty arises when either viewpoint shuts out the other .
And this is what all too often happens .
Divergent perspectives
A little parable illustrative of this truth is afforded by an incident related by Professor Bela Vasady at the end of the Second World War .
With great difficulty he made his way from his native Hungary to Geneva to renew his contacts as a member of the Provisional Committee for the World Council of Churches .
When he had the mishap of breaking his spectacles , his ecumenical colleagues insisted on providing him with new ones .
They were bifocals .
He often spoke of them as his `` ecumenical '' glasses and used them as a symbol of the kind of vision that is required in the church .
It is , he said , a bifocal vision , which can see both the near-at-hand and the distant and keep a Christian in right relation to both .
As things stand now , the local and the ecumenical tend to compete with each other .
On the one hand , there are ecumenists who are so stirred by the crises of the church in its encounter with the world at large that they have no eyes for what the church is doing in their own town .
They do not escape the pitfall into which Charles Dickens pictured Mrs. Jellyby as falling .
Her concern for the natives of Borrioboola-Gha was so intense that she quite forgot and neglected her son Peepy ! !
Likewise , the ecumenist may become so absorbed in the conflict of the church with the totalitarian state in East Germany , the precarious situation of the church in revolutionary China , and the anguish of the church over apartheid in South Africa that he loses close contact with the parish church in its unspectacular but indispensable ministry of worship , pastoral service and counseling , and Christian nurture for a face-to-face group of individuals .
On the other hand , many a pastor is so absorbed in ministering to the intimate , personal needs of individuals in his congregation that he does little or nothing to lead them into a sense of social responsibility and world mission .
As a result , they go on thinking of the church , with introverted and self-centered satisfaction , only in connection with the way in which it serves them and their families .
It would hardly be an exaggeration to say that ninety per cent of the energy of most churches -- whether in terms of finance or spiritual concern -- is poured into the private and domestic interests of the members .
The parish lives for itself rather than for the community or the world .
The gap between the ecumenical perspective and the parish perspective appears most starkly in a church in any of our comfortable suburbs .
It is eminently successful according to all conventional standards .
It is growing in numbers .
Its people are agreeable friends .
It has a beautiful edifice .
Its preaching and its music give refreshment of spirit to men and women living under heavy strain .
It provides pastoral care for the sick and troubled .
It helps children grow up with at least a nodding acquaintance with the Bible .
It draws young people into the circle of those who continue the life of the church from generation to generation .
And it is easy for the ecumenical enthusiast to lose sight of how basic all this is .
But what is this church doing to help its members understand their roles as Christians in the world ? ?
All too often its conception of parish ministry and pastoral care includes no responsibility for them in their relation to issues of the most desperate urgency for the life of mankind .
It is not stirring them to confront the racial tensions of today with the mind of Christ .
It is not helping them face the moral crisis involved in the use of nuclear energy .
It is not making them sensitive to the sub-Christian level of much of our economic and industrial life .
It is raising no disturbing question as to what Christian stewardship means for the relationship of the richest nation in the world to economically underdeveloped peoples .
It is not developing an awareness of the new kind of missionary strategy that is called for as young churches emerge in Asia and Africa .
To put it bluntly , many a local church is giving its members only what they consciously want .
It is not disturbing them by thoughts of their Christian responsibility in relation to the world .
We shall not make a decisive advance in the ecumenical movement until such a church begins to see itself not merely as a haven of comfort and peace but as a base of Christian witness and mission to the world .
There is a humorous but revealing story about a rancher who owned a large slice of Texas and who wanted to have on it everything that was necessary for a completely pleasant community .
He built a school and a library , then a recreation center and an inn .
Desiring to fill the only remaining lack , he selected the best site on the ranch for a chapel and spared no expense in erecting it .
A visitor to the beautiful little building inquired , `` Do you belong to this church , Mr. Rancher '' ? ?
`` Why , no , ma'am '' , he replied , `` this church belongs to me '' ! !
The story reflects the way too many people feel .
As long as the congregation regards the church as `` our '' church , or the minister thinks of it as `` my '' church , just so long the ecumenical movement will make no significant advance .
There must first be a deeper sense that the church belongs not to us but to Christ , and that it is His purpose , not our own interests and preferences , that determines what it is to be and do .
Local embodiment of the whole
A local church which conceives its function to be entirely that of ministering to the conscious desires and concerns of its members tends to look on everything ecumenical as an extra , not as a normal aspect of its own life as a church .
It would doubtless be greatly surprised to be told that in failing to be ecumenical it is really failing to be the Church of Christ .
Yet the truth , according to the New Testament , is that every local church has its existence only by being the embodiment of the whole church in that particular place .
Yet a crowd came out to see some fresh kids from the city try to match the boys from the neighboring farms ; ;
and buggies and wagons and chugging Fords kept gathering all morning , until the edges of the field were packed thick and small boys kept scampering out on the playing field to make fun of the visitors -- whose pitcher was a formidable looking young man with the only baseball cap .
This was a bitterly fought game , carrying almost as much grudge as a fist fight , with no friendliness exhibited between the teams except the formal politeness that accompanied the setting forth of ground rules and agreements on balls that went into the crowd .
Every pitch in the game brought forth a howl from the enraptured audience and every fly ball the visitors dropped ( and because their right fielder was still a little fuzzy from drink , they dropped many ) called forth yelps of derision .
At one point in the game when the skinny old man in suspenders who was acting as umpire got in the way of a thrown ball and took it painfully in the kidneys , he lay there unattended while players and spectators wrangled over whether the ball was `` dead '' or the base runners were free to score .
This was typical of such games , which were earnestly played to win and practically never wound up in an expression of good fellowship .
When the visitors , after losing this game , rode along the village streets toward home , the youngsters who could keep abreast of them for a moment or two screamed triumphantly , `` You bunch of hay-shakers ! !
G'ahn back home ! !
You hay-shakers '' ! !
Baseball was surely the national game in those days , even though professional baseball may have been merely a business .
Radio broadcasts had not begun and most devotees of baseball attended the games near home , in the town park or a pasture , with perhaps two or three trips to the city each season to see the Cubs or the Pirates or the Indians or the Red Sox .
Young men in school could look forward to playing ball for money in a dozen different places , even if they failed to make the major leagues .
Nearly any lad with a modicum of skill might find a payday awaiting him in the Three I League , or the Pony League , or the Coastal Plains League , or the fast Eastern League , if not indeed in one of the hundreds of city leagues that abounded everywhere .
Even a city of thirty thousand might have six baseball teams , sponsored by grocers and hardware merchants or department stores , that played two or three times a week throughout the summer , usually in the cool of the evening , before an earnest and partisan audience who did not begrudge a quarter each , or even more , to be dropped into a hat when the game was half over .
Babe Ruth , of course , was everyone's hero , and everyone knew him , even though relatively few ever saw him play ball .
His face was always in the newspapers , sometimes in cartoons that seemed nearly as large as life .
As the twenties grew older , and as radio broadcasts of baseball games began to involve more and more people daily in the doings of the professionals , the great hitters ( always led by Babe Ruth ) overshadowed the game so that pitchers were nearly of no account .
Boys no longer bothered learning to bunt and even school kids scorned to `` choke up '' on a bat as Willie Keeler and the famous hitters of another day had done .
Other hitters bloomed with more or less vigor in the news and a few even dared to dream of matching Ruth , who was still called Jidge by all his friends , or Leo or Two-Head by those who dared to taunt him ( Leo was the name of the ball player he liked the least ) and who called most of the world `` Kid '' .
Lou Gehrig was given the nickname Buster , and he ran Ruth a close race in home runs .
But the nickname never stuck and Gehrig was no match for Ruth in `` color '' -- which is sometimes a polite word for delinquent behavior on and off the field .
Ruth was a delinquent boy still , but he was in every way a great ball player who was out to win the game and occasionally risked a cracked bone to do it .
A few professional baseball players cultivated eccentricities , with the encouragement of the press , so that they might see their names in big black print , along with Daddy Browning's , Al Capone's , Earl Sande's , and the Prince of Wales' .
One who , for a time , succeeded best and was still the sorriest of all was Charles Arthur Shires , who called himself , in the newspapers , Art the Great , or The Great Shires .
It was his brag that he could beat everybody at anything , but especially at fighting , and he once took on the manager of his club and worked him over thoroughly with his fists .
He was given to public carousing and to acting the clown on the diamond ; ;
and a policeman asserted he had found a pair of brass knuckles in Art's pocket once when he had occasion to collar the Great First Baseman for some forgotten reason .
( This made a sportswriter named Pegler wonder in print if Art had worn this armament when he defeated his manager .
) The sorry fact about this young man , who was barely of age when he broke into major-league baseball , was that he really was a better ball player than he was given credit for being -- never so good as he claimed , and always an irritant to his associates , but a good steady performer when he could fight down the temptation to orate on his skills or cut up in public .
In his minor way Charles Arthur Shires was perhaps more typical of his era than Ruth was , for he was but one of many young men who laid waste their talents in these Scott Fitzgerald days for the sake of earning space in the newspapers .
There were others who climbed flagpoles and refused to come down ; ;
or who ingested strange objects , like live fish ; ;
or who undertook to set records for remaining erect on a dance floor , with or without a partner ; ;
or who essayed to down full bottles of illicit gin without pausing for breath .
One young man , exhilarated to the point of insanity by liquor and the excitement of the moment , performed a perfect swan dive out of the stands at the Yale Bowl during the Yale-Army football game , landed squarely on his head on the concrete ramp below , and died at once .
But the twenties were not all insanity and a striving after recognition .
The business of baseball began to prosper along with other entertainments , and performers -- thanks partly to George Herman Ruth's spectacular efforts each season to run his salary higher and higher -- prospered too .
While fifty years before , Albert Goodwill Spalding , secretary of the Chicago Ball Club of the National League , could write earnestly to the manager of the Buffalo club and request a guarantee of one hundred dollars for a baseball game in August , in this Golden Era a game at the Yankee Stadium might bring in nearly a hundred thousand dollars at the gate .
And while less than ten years earlier the wayward Black Sox -- all of them top performers in their positions -- had toiled for stingy Charles Comiskey at salaries ranging from twenty-five hundred dollars to forty-five hundred dollars a year , stars now were asking ten thousand dollars , twenty thousand dollars , yes , even fifty thousand dollars a season .
The greatest team of this period was unquestionably the New York Yankees , bought by brewery millions and made into a ball club by men named Ed Barrow and Miller Huggins .
Boston fans sometimes liked to wring some wry satisfaction out of the fact that most of the great 1923-27 crew were graduates of the Red Sox -- sold to millionaires Huston and Ruppert by a man who could not deny them their most trifling desire .
Ruth himself , still owning his farm in Massachusetts and an interest in the Massachusetts cigar business that printed his round boyish face on the wrappers , had led the parade down from Fenway Park , followed by pitchers Carl Mays , Leslie `` Joe '' Bush , Waite Hoyt , Herb Pennock , and Sam Jones , catcher Wally Schang , third baseman Joe Dugan ( who completed the `` playboy trio '' of Ruth , Dugan , and Hoyt ) , and shortstop Everett Scott .
By 1926 , when the mighty Yanks were at their mightiest , only a few of these were left but they still shone brightest , even beside able and agile rookies like Tony Lazzeri ( who managed never to have one of his epileptic fits on the field ) , Mark Koenig , Lou Gehrig , George Pipgras , and gray-thatched Earl Combs .
The deeds of this team , through two seasons and in the two World's Series that followed , have been written and talked about until hardly a word is left to be said .
But there is one small episode that a few New York fans who happened to sit in the cheap seats for one World's Series game in 1926 like best to recall .
Babe Ruth , as he always did in the Stadium , played right field to avoid having the sun in his eyes , and Tommy Thevenow , a rather mediocre hitter who played shortstop for the St. Louis Cardinals , knocked a ball with all his might into the sharp angle formed by the permanent stands and the wooden bleachers , where Ruth could not reach it .
The ball lay there , shining white on the grass in view of nearly every fan in the park while Ruth , red-necked with frustration , charged about the small patch of ground screaming , `` Where's the -- -ing ball '' ? ?
But , as he snarled unhappily when the inning was over , `` not a sonofabitch in the place would tell me '' , so little Tommy ran all the way home .
The ordinary man and woman , however , saw little of the great professional games of those Golden Days , or of any other sporting event for that matter .
Promoters always hastened to place their choice tickets in the hands of the wealthy speculators , and only the man who knew the man who knew the fellow who had an in with the guy at the box office ever came up with a good seat for a contest of any importance .
Radio broadcasts , however -- now that even plain people could afford `` loud speakers '' on their sets -- held old fans to the major-league races and attracted new ones , chiefly women , who through what the philosopher called the ineluctable modality of audition , became first inured , then attracted , then addicted to the long afternoon recitals of the doings in some distant baseball park .
In some cities games were broadcast throughout the week and then on weekends the announcer was silenced , and fans must needs drive to the city from all the broadcast area to discover how their heroes were faring .
This had a pleasant effect upon the Sunday gate receipts as well as upon the intake of the rail and bus companies , some of which began to offer special excursion rates , including seats at the park , just as the trolley and ferry companies had when baseball was new .
While women had always attended ball games in small numbers ( it was the part of a `` dead game sport '' in the early years of the twentieth century to be taken out to the ball park and to root , root , root for the home team ) , they had often sat in patient martyrdom , unable even to read the scoreboard , which sometimes seemed to indicate that one team led another by a score of three hundred and eighty to one hundred and fifty-one .
The questions women asked at baseball games were standard grist for amateur comedy , as were the doings of women automobile drivers ; ;
for every grown man ( except a few who were always suspected of being shy on virility ) knew at least the fundamentals of baseball , just as every male American in this era liked to imagine ( or pretend ) that he could fight with his fists .
And women were not expected to know that the pitcher was trying not to let the batter hit the ball .
Radio , however , so increased the interest of women in the game that it was hardly necessary even to have `` Ladies' Days '' any longer to enable men to get to the ball park without interference at home .
Women actually began to appear unaccompanied in the stands , where they still occasionally ran the risk of coming home with a tobacco-juice stain on a clean skirt or a new curse word tingling their ears .
The radio broadcasts themselves were often so patiently informative , despite the baseball jargon , that girls and women could begin to store up in their minds the same sort of random and meaningless statistics that small boys had long learned better than they ever did their lessons in school .
This conclusion is dependent on the assumption that traditional sex mores will continue to sanction both premarital chastity as the `` ideal '' , and the double standard holding females primarily responsible for preserving the ideal .
Our discussion of this involves using Erik Erikson's schema of `` identity vs. identity diffusion '' as a conceptual tool in superimposing a few common denominators onto the diverse personality and family configurations of the unwed mothers from whose case histories we quoted earlier .
Our discussion does not utilize all the identity crises postulated by Erikson , but is intended to demonstrate the utility of his theoretical schema for studying unwed mothers .
We hope thereby to emphasize that , from a psychological standpoint , the effectual prevention of illegitimacy is a continuous long-term process involving the socialization of the female from infancy through adolescence .
Hypothesizing a series of developmental stages that begin in the individual's infancy and end in his old age , Erikson has indicated that the adolescent is faced with a series of identity crises .
The successful and positive resolution of these crises during adolescence involves an epigenetic principle -- during adolescence , the individual's positive resolutions in each area of identity crisis depend , to a considerable degree , on his already having resolved preliminary and preparatory identity crises during his infancy , childhood , and early adolescence .
Within Erikson's schema , the adolescent's delinquent behavior -- in this case , her unwed motherhood -- reflects her `` identity diffusion '' , or her inability to resolve these various identity crises positively .
The adolescent experiences identity crises in terms of time perspective vs. time diffusion .
Time perspective -- the ability to plan for the future and to postpone gratifying immediate wants in order to achieve long-range objectives -- is more easily developed if , from infancy on , the individual has been able to rely on and trust people and the world in which she lives .
Erikson has noted that , unless this trust developed early , the time ambivalence experienced , in varying degree and temporarily , by all adolescents ( as a result of their remembering the more immediate gratification of wants during childhood , while not yet having fully accepted the long-range planning required by adulthood ) may develop into a more permanent sense of time diffusion .
Experience of this time diffusion ranges from a sense of utter apathy to a feeling of desperate urgency to act immediately .
These polar extremes in time diffusion were indicated in some of the comments by unwed mothers reported in earlier chapters .
Some of these mothers , apparently feeling a desperate urgency , made , on the spur of the moment , commitments , in love and sex , that would have life-long consequences .
Others displayed utter apathy and indifference to any decision about the past or the future .
For many of these unwed mothers , the data on their family life and early childhood experiences revealed several indications and sources of their basic mistrust of their parents in particular and of the world in general .
However , as Erickson has noted , the individual's failure to develop preliminary identities during infancy and childhood need not be irreversibly deterministic with respect to a given area of identity diffusion in his ( or her ) adolescence .
And , as shown in Chapter 6 , , some SNP females originally developed such trust only during their adolescence , through the aid of , and their identification with , alter-parents .
In the specific case of time diffusion , we must emphasize the significance of the earlier development of mistrust when it is combined with the inevitable time crisis experienced by most ( if not all ) adolescents in our society , and with the failure of the adolescent period to provide opportunities for developing trust .
The adolescent experiences two closely related crises : self-certainty vs. an identity consciousness ; ;
and role-experimentation vs. negative identity .
A sense of self-certainty and the freedom to experiment with different roles , or confidence in one's own unique behavior as an alternative to peer-group conformity , is more easily developed during adolescence if , during early childhood , the individual was permitted to exercise initiative and encouraged to develop some autonomy .
However , if the child has been constantly surrounded , during nursery and early school age , by peer groups ; ;
inculcated with the primacy of group acceptance and group standards ; ;
and allowed little initiative in early play and work patterns -- then in adolescence her normal degree of vanity , sensitivity , and preoccupation with whether others find her appearance and behavior acceptable , will be compounded .
Her ostensible indifference to and rebellion against suggestions and criticisms by anyone except peer friends during adolescence are the manifestations , in her adolescence , of her having been indoctrinated in childhood to feel shame , if not guilt , for failing to behave in a manner acceptable to , and judged by , the performance of her nursery- and elementary-school peer friends .
To be different is to invite shame and doubt ; ;
and it is better to be shamed and criticized by one's parents , who already consider one different and difficult to understand , than by one's peers , who are also experiencing a similar groping for and denial of adult status .
The attitudes of some unwed mothers quoted in Chapter 2 , , revealed both considerable preoccupation with being accepted by others and a marked absence of self-certainty .
Many appeared to regard their sexual behavior as a justifiable means of gaining acceptance from and identification with others ; ;
but very few seemed aware that such acceptance and identification need to be supplemented with more enduring and stable identification of and with one's self .
Another identity crisis confronting the adolescent involves anticipation of achievement vs. work-paralysis .
The adolescent's capacity to anticipate achievement and to exercise the self-discipline necessary to complete tasks successfully depends on the degree to which he or she developed autonomy , initiative , and self-discipline during childhood .
The developmental process involves the individual's progressively experiencing a sense of dignity and achievement resulting from having completed tasks , having kept commitments , and having created something ( however small or simple -- even a doll dress of one's own design rather than in the design `` it ought to be '' ) .
These childhood experiences are sources of the self-certainty that the adolescent needs , for experimenting with many roles , and for the freedom to fail sometimes in the process of exploring and discovering her skills and abilities .
If she has not had such experiences , the female's normal adolescent degree of indecision will be compounded .
She may well be incapacitated by it when she is confronted with present and future alternatives -- e.g. , whether to prepare primarily for a career or for the role of a homemaker ; ;
whether to stay financially dependent on her parents or help support herself while attending school ; ;
whether to pursue a college education or a job after high school ; ;
and whether to attend this or that college and to follow this or that course of study .
Erikson has noted that , as this indecision mounts , it may result in a `` paralysis of workmanship '' .
This paralysis may be expressed in the female's starting -- and never completing -- many jobs , tasks , and courses of study ; ;
and in the fact that she bases her decisions about work , college , carreer , and studies on what others are doing , rather than on her own sense of identity with given skills , abilities , likes , and dislikes .
The absence , during her childhood and early adolescence , of experiences in developing the self-discipline to complete tasks within her ability -- experiences that would have been subsequent sources of anticipation of achievement -- and her lack of childhood opportunities to practice autonomy and initiative in play and expression , both tend in her adolescence to deprive her of the freedoms to role-experiment and to fail occasionally in experimenting .
The comments made by some unwed mothers ( quoted in Chapter 2 ) ) reflect this paralysis of workmanship .
They attended school and selected courses primarily on the basis of decisions others made ; ;
they accepted a job primarily because it was available , convenient , and paid reasonably .
These things both express and , at the same time , continue contributing to , their identity diffusion in an area that could have become a source of developing dignity and self-certainty .
As their identity diffusion increased , they became more susceptible to sporadic diversions in love and sexual affairs .
These affairs temporarily relieved the monotony of school or work activities containing no anticipation of achievement and joy of craftsmanship , no sense of dignity derived from a job well done .
Childhood experiences in learning work and self-discipline habits within a context of developing autonomy and initiative have considerable significance for the prevention of illegitimacy .
The excerpts from case histories presented above confirm this significance , though through different facets of experience .
For example , some unwed mothers had had no work experiences , household chores , and responsibilities during childhood and early adolescence ; ;
they subsequently occupied their leisure hours in searching for something exciting and diverting .
Sex was both .
On the other hand , some unwed mothers had had so much work and responsibility imposed on them at an early age , and had thus had so little freedom or opportunity to develop autonomy and initiative , that their work and responsibilities became dull and unrewarding burdens -- to be escaped and rebelled against through fun and experimentation with forbidden sexual behavior .
The adolescent also faces the identity crisis that Erikson has termed ideological polarization vs. diffusion of ideals .
In discussing the ways this crisis is germane to consderations for the prevention of illegitimacy , we shall again superimpose Erikson's concept on our data .
Adolescents have a much-discussed tendency to polarize ideas and values , to perceive things as `` either-or '' , black or white -- nuances of meaning are relatively unimportant .
This tendency is , perhaps , most clearly revealed in the literature on religious conversions and experiences of adolescents .
Erikson has postulated that such ideological polarization temporarily resolves their search for something stable and definite in the rapidly changing and fluctuating no-man's-land between childhood and adulthood .
It provides identification -- with an idea , a value , a cause that cuts through , or even transcends , the multiple and ambivalent identities of their passage from child to adult , and permits their forceful and overt expression of emotion .
The positive development , during adolescence , of this capacity to think and to feel strongly and with increasing independence , and to identify overtly either with or against given ideas , values , and practices , depends to a considerable degree on both previous and present opportunities for developing autonomy , initiative , and self-certainty .
Most adolescents have some ideological diffusion at various developmental stages , as they experience a proliferation of ideas and values .
The diffusion is most pronounced and most likely to become fixed , however , in those who have had no or very minimal opportunities to develop the autonomy and initiative that could have been directed into constructive expression and so served as sources of developing self-certainty .
A pronounced ideological diffusion -- i.e. , inability to identify independently with given ideas and value systems -- is reflected in many ways .
For example , it is evinced by the adolescent ( or adult ) whose beliefs and actions represent primarily his rebellion and reaction against the ideas and behavior patterns of others , rather than his inner conviction and choice .
It is mirrored by the individual Willie Lohmans , whose ideas and behavior patterns are so dependent and relativistic that they always coincide with those of the individual or group present and most important at the moment .
In another sense , it is represented in the arguments of the `` true believers '' who seek to disprove the validity of all other beliefs and ideas in order to retain confidence in theirs .
The case histories provide some interesting illustrations of ideological diffusion , embodied in the unwed mother's inability to identify independently a given value system or behavior pattern , , and her subsequent disinclination to assume any individual responsibility for her sexual behavior .
For example , the unwed mothers expressed their frustration with males who did not indicate more explicitly `` what it is they really want from a girl so one can act accordingly '' .
They were disappointed by the physical and emotional hurt of premarital sexual intercourse .
They condemned the movie script writers for implying that sex was enjoyable and exhilarating .
They criticized parents for never having emphasized traditional concepts of right and wrong ; ;
and they censured parents who `` never disciplined and were too permissive '' or who `` never explained how easy it was to get pregnant '' .
In the adult world , there are a number of rather general and diffuse sources of ideological diffusion that further compound the adolescent's search for meaning during this particular identity crisis .
For example , some contemporary writing tends to fuse the `` good guys '' and the `` bad guys '' , to portray the weak people as heroes and weakness as a virtue , and to explain ( or even justify ) asocial behavior by attributing it to deterministic psychological , familial , and social experiences .
In the final accounting , these would have augmented the bill for both sides .
An estimate of one million dollars is probably not excessive .
Yet the huge amount of money consumed by the Selden litigation , which many regarded as wasteful , indirectly contributed to constructive changes in legal procedure .
The duration and other circumstances of the Selden case made it a flagrant example of the gross abuses of patent infringement actions .
The suit , as we have seen , came before the courts when patent attorneys , inventors , and laymen were making mounting demands for reforms in the American patent system .
Chief among the defects they singled out were the complicated and wearisome procedures in equity .
In a long and angry footnote to his opinion , Judge Hough had lent the weight of judicial condemnation to such criticism .
`` It is a duty '' , said Hough , `` not to let pass this opportunity of protesting against the methods of taking and printing testimony in Equity , current in this circuit ( and probably others ) , excused if not justified by the rules of the Supreme Court , especially to be found in patent causes , and flagrantly exemplified in this litigation .
As long as the bar prefers to adduce evidence by written deposition , rather than viva voce before an authoritative judicial officer , I fear that the antiquated rules will remain unchanged , and expensive prolixity remain the best known characteristic of Equity '' .
Observing that `` reforms sometimes begin with the contemplation of horrible examples '' , Hough catalogued the many abuses encouraged by existing procedures .
He cited the elephantine dimensions of the Selden case record ; ;
the duplication of testimony and exhibits ; ;
the numerous squabbles over minor matters ; ;
the `` objections stated at outrageous length '' ; ;
and the frequent and rancorous verbal bouts , `` uncalled for and unjustifiable , from the retort discourteous to the lie direct '' .
The fundamental difficulty of which the Selden case was `` a striking ( though not singular ) example '' , concluded Hough , `` will remain as long as testimony is taken without any authoritative judicial officer present , and responsible for the maintenance of discipline , and the reception or exclusion of testimony '' .
Not least among the members of the patent bar who echoed this powerful indictment were those who had participated in the Selden suit .
William A. Redding asserted that if the case had been heard in open court under rules of evidence , the testimony would have been completed in sixty days instead of five years .
Inventors joined lawyers in the clamor for reform , inevitably centering upon the Selden litigation as a `` horrible example '' .
Its costive deliberations were likened to those of the British courts of chancery mercilessly caricatured by Dickens in Bleak House .
Parker , who agreed with much of this criticism , did not conceal his dissatisfaction with procedural defects .
But he felt that the Selden case was being unfairly pilloried .
In a detailed letter published in the Scientific American in 1912 , he remarked that `` loose statements '' about the case showed scant understanding of the facts .
The suit , although commonly designated as a single action , actually embraced five cases .
Parker insisted that the size of the record would have been drastically reduced but for an unavoidable duplication of testimony .
In a private communication written in 1911 , Parker had been more to the point .
Noting the complaints of inventors and members of the patent bar , he admitted that some of the strictures `` were fairly well founded '' , but he added that under existing rules the courts could not consolidate testimony in a group of suits involving separate infringements of the same patent .
The vast industrial interests caught up in the Selden suit , as well as the complex character of the automotive art , encouraged both sides to exploit `` every possible chance '' for or against the patent , said Parker .
`` This very seldom happens in this class or in other cases , and of course all of these matters led to a volume and an expense of the record beyond what ordinarily would occur '' .
Parker listed the remedies he deemed essential for reducing the cost and mass of testimony .
The most important of these found him in agreement with Hough's plea for reform .
Parker called for abolition of the indiscriminate or uncontrolled right of taking depositions before officers of the court who had no authority to limit testimony .
The taking of depositions , he suggested , should be placed under a special court examiner empowered to compel responsive and relevant answers and to exclude immaterial testimony .
`` I am satisfied that in the Selden case had this power existed and this course ( been ) pursued , it would have shortened the depositions of some of the experts nearly one-half and of some of the other witnesses thereto more than that '' .
In the end Hough's acidulous protest , which Parker called the `` now somewhat famous note on this ' Selden ' case '' , did not go unheeded .
In 1912 the United States Supreme Court adopted a new set of rules of equity which became effective on February 1 , 1913 .
The revised procedure was acclaimed as a long-overdue reform .
Under the new rules , testimony is taken orally in open court in all cases except those of an extraordinary character .
Other expeditious methods are designed to prevent prolixity , limit delays , and reduce the expense of infringement suits .
One of the A.L.A.M. lawyers observed that if the Selden case had been tried under this simplified procedure , the testimony which filled more than a score of volumes , `` at a minimum cost of $1 a page for publication alone , could have been contained in one volume '' .
While patent suits are still among the most complex and expensive forms of litigation , these rules have saved litigants uncounted sums of money .
There is little doubt that they were promulgated by the Supreme Court as a direct result of the Selden patent suit .
3
.
Even before it was formally dissolved in 1912 , the A.L.A.M. was succeeded by the Automobile Board of Trade , the direct lineal ancestor of the present-day Automobile Manufacturers Association .
The trade bodies which came in the wake of the A.L.A.M. were more representative , for they never adopted a policy of exclusion .
Nevertheless , it is from the Selden organization that the industry inherited its institutional machinery for furthering the broader interests of the trade .
One of the chief features of this community of interest is the automotive patents cross-licensing agreement , a milestone in the development of American industrial cooperation .
Its origin lies in the Selden patent controversy and its aftermath .
From the earliest days of the motor car industry , before the A.L.A.M. was established , patent infringement loomed as a serious and vexing problem .
Many patent contests were waged over automobile components and accessories , among them tires , detachable rims , ball bearings , license brackets , and electric horns .
The fluidity and momentum of the young industry abetted a general disregard of patent claims .
As early as 1900 a Wall Street combination acquired detail patents with the intention of exacting heavy tribute from automobile manufacturers .
This scheme failed , and the following decade brought a deluge of infringement suits among individual manufacturers that reached its crest in 1912 .
In this tangle of conflicting claims , the patent-sharing scheme adopted by the A.L.A.M. at its founding proved to be the best device for avoiding or mitigating the burdens of incessant litigation .
The interchange of shop licenses for a nominal royalty eliminated infringement suits among the members of the A.L.A.M. patent pool ( although it did not protect them against outside actions ) and kept open channels for the cross-fertilization of automotive technology .
One of the conditions of the pool was a prohibition upon the withholding of patent rights among A.L.A.M. members .
Within its limits , this arrangement had the actual or potential characteristics of a cross-licensing agreement .
Its positive features outweighed the fact that the pool was an adjunct of a wouldbe monopoly .
Since the A.L.A.M. holdings embraced only about twenty-five per cent of motor vehicle patents , the denial of rights to independent companies did not retard technical progress in unlicensed sectors of the industry .
The highly important Dyer patents on the sliding gear transmission were held by the A.L.A.M. pool .
But Henry Ford used the planetary transmission in his Model T and earlier cars and , in 1905 , as a precautionary measure , took out a license from the man who claimed to be its inventor .
For those affiliated with it , the A.L.A.M. pool was a haven from the infringement actions involving detail patents that beset the industry with mounting intensity after 1900 .
By 1910 the courts were crowded with cases , many of them brought by freebooters who trafficked in disputed inventions .
It was commonplace for auto makers , parts-suppliers , and dealers to find warning notices and threats of infringement suits in their daily mail .
`` Purely from the business man's standpoint and without regard to the lawyer's view '' , commented a trade journal , `` the matter of patents in the automobile and accessory trade is developing some phases and results that challenge thought as to how far patents are to become weapons of warfare in business , instead of simple beneficient protection devices for encouraging inventive creation '' .
Occasionally new enterprise was discouraged by the almost certain prospect of legal complications .
One manufacturer who held an allegedly basic patent said : `` I would readily put over $50,000 into the manufacture of the device , but it is so easy to make that we would enter immediately into a prolonged ordeal of patent litigation which would eat up all our profits '' .
The prevailing view in the industry was summed up in 1912 by a group of auto makers who told a Senate committee : `` The exceedingly unsatisfactory and uselessly expensive conditions , including delays surrounding legal disputes , particularly in patent litigation , are items of industrial burden which must be written large in figures of many millions of dollars of industrial waste '' .
By that time it was commonly agreed that patent warfare was sapping constructive achievement and blocking the free exchange of technical information .
At this point Charles C. Hanch , long an advocate of patent peace in the industry , became chairman of the patents committee of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce , successor to the Automobile Board of Trade .
Hanch was treasurer of the Nordyke & Marmon Company , an Indianapolis firm which had manufactured flour-milling machinery before producing the Marmon car in 1904 .
He had first-hand knowledge of the patent wars which had driven about ninety per cent of the milling equipment makers out of business in the mid-1890's .
Anxious to avoid a similar debacle in the motor car industry , Hanch went to Detroit in 1909 to enlist the support of leading A.L.A.M. members for an industry-wide patent-sharing plan .
The breach created by the Selden patent doomed his proposal , but Hanch did not abandon his scheme .
After the demise of the A.L.A.M. , the time was propitious for establishing such a pool .
Most manufacturers were now disposed to heed a proposal for the formal interchange of patents .
`` It is a much easier course to agree to let one another alone so far as ordinary patents are concerned '' , said a trade authority , `` than to continue the costly effort of straightening the tangle in the courts or seeking to reform the patent system , which appears to be getting into deeper confusion every day '' .
With the other members of the patents committee -- Wilfred C. Leland , Howard E. Coffin , Windsor T. White , and W. H. Vandervoort -- Hanch drafted a cross-licensing agreement whose essential feature of royalty-free licensing was his own contribution .
The plan was supported by Frederick P. Fish , counsel for the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce .
It will be recalled that in his summation for the A.L.A.M. before Judge Hough , Fish had condemned patent litigation as the curse of the American industrial community .
He was well aware that some inventors and their allies used their patents solely for nuisance value .
`` My personal view is that not one patented invention in ten is worth making '' , he later told a Congressional committee .
The eloquent persuasions of Fish guaranteed the adoption of the plan by the members of the automotive trade association .
Drawn up in 1914 , the cross-licensing agreement became effective in 1915 .
It remained in force for ten years and has been renewed at five-year intervals since 1925 .
A little farther along the road you come to the Church of Santa Sabina , called the `` Pearl of the Aventine '' .
Continue another hundred yards to the Piazza of the Knights of Malta .
On the wall of this square there are delightful bas-reliefs of musical instruments .
The massive gate of the Maltese villa affords one of the most extraordinary views in Rome .
If you look through the keyhole , you will see an artistically landscaped garden with the white dome of St. Peter's framed in a long avenue of cropped laurel trees .
Retrace your steps a few yards on the Via Di Santa Sabina and turn right on the Via Di S. Alessio , a street lined with stately homes .
Oleanders , cypress , and palms in the spacious gardens add much color and beauty to this attractive residential section .
Turn left a block or so before the street ends , and then turn right down the Via Di Santa Prisca to the Viale Aventino .
Here you can pick up a taxi or public transport to return to the center of the city .
The renaissance city
to the piazza Navona and pantheon
These two walks take you through the heart of Rome .
You will walk some of the narrow , old streets , hemmed in by massive palazzi .
You will visit a few churches that are exceptional yet often by-passed , a magnificent square , the main shopping district , the Spanish Steps , and the lovely Pincian Gardens .
By seeing such varied places , both interesting and beautiful , you will become aware of the many different civilizations Rome has lived through , and in particular , get a feel of Renaissance Rome .
You will realize why Rome is indeed the Eternal City .
Start on the Via D. Teatro Di Marcello at the foot of the Capitoline Hill .
The majestic circular tiers of stone of the Theatre of Marcellus give you some idea of the huge edifice that the Emperor Augustus erected in 13 B.C. .
Twenty-two thousand spectators used to crowd it in Roman days .
Andrea Palladio , an Italian architect of the sixteenth century , modeled his designs on its Doric and Ionic columns .
Wander past the three superb Columns of Apollo by the arches of the theatre .
The remains of the Portico of Octavia are now in front of you .
Climb the steps from the theatre to the Via Della Tribuna Di Campitelli for an even better view of the Columns of Apollo .
Turn to the right along a narrow street to the tiny Piazza Campitelli , then proceed along the Via Dei Funari to the Piazza Mattei .
Here is one of the loveliest fountains in Rome , the Fontana delle Tartarughe or `` Fountain of the Tortoises '' .
It's typical of Rome that in the midst of this rather poor area you should find such an artistic work in the center of a little square .
Stand here for a few moments and look at this gem of a fountain with its four youths , each holding a tortoise and each with a foot resting on the head of a dolphin .
The figures have been executed so skillfully that one senses a great feeling of life and movement .
Opposite is the Palazzo Mattei , one of Rome's oldest palaces , now the headquarters of the Italo-American Association .
Go inside for a closer look at a Renaissance palace .
In the first courtyard there are some fine bas-reliefs and friezes , and in the second a series of delightful terraced roof gardens above an ivy-covered wall .
The Palazzo Caetani , still inhabited by the Caetani family , adjoins the Palazzo Mattei .
Keep straight ahead on the Via Falegnami , cross the wide Via Arenula , and you will come to the Piazza B. Cairoli , where you should look in at the Church of San Carlo Ai Catinari to see the frescoes on the ceiling .
Follow the colorful and busy Via D. Giubbonari for a hundred yards or so .
Now turn left at the Via dell' Arco Del Monte to the Piazza Dei Pellegrini .
Just a few yards to the right on the Via Capo Di Ferro will bring you to the Palazzo Spada , built in 1540 and now occupied by the Council of State .
Paintings by Titian , Caravaggio , and Rubens are on display ( open 9:30 to 4:00 ) .
Before you enter the palazzo , note Francesco Borromini's facade .
The great architect also designed the fine interior staircase and colonnade which connects the two courts .
The large statue on the first floor is believed to be the statue of Pompey at the base of which Julius Caesar was stabbed to death ( if so , the statue once stood in the senate house ) .
( This is shown in the afternoon and on Sunday morning .
)
By tipping the porter , you can see in the courtyard Borromini's unusual and fascinating trick in perspective .
When you stand before the barrel-vaulted colonnade you have the impression that the statue at the end is at a considerable distance , yet it is actually only a few feet away .
The sense of perspective has been created by designing the length of the columns so that those at the far end of the colonnade are much shorter than those in front .
The gardens of the palazzo , shaded by a huge magnolia tree , are most attractive .
The courtyard is magnificently decorated .
From the Palazzo Spada you continue another block along the Via Capo Di Ferro and Vicolo De Venti to the imposing Palazzo Farnese , begun in 1514 and considered by many to be the finest palace of all .
Michelangelo was the most distinguished of several noted architects who helped design it .
Today it is occupied by the French Embassy .
Its lovely seventeenth-century ceiling frescoes , as well as the huge guards room with a tremendously high and beautifully carved wooden ceiling , can be seen Sundays ( 11:00 to 12:00 noon ) .
Ask to see the modern tapestries of Paris and Rome designed by Lurcat .
Directly in front of the palace along the Via D. Baullari you will come to the Campo Di Fiori , the famous site of executions during the turbulent days of Renaissance Rome .
Today , by contrast it is a lively and colorful fruit , vegetable , and flower market .
Continue on the Via D. Baullari to the Corso Vittorio Emanuele , then turn right for a couple of hundred yards to the Church of Sant' Andrea Della Valle .
As you approach the church on the Via D. Baullari you are passing within yards of the remains of the Roman Theatre of Pompey , near which is believed to have been the place where Julius Caesar was assassinated .
The dome of the church is , outside of St. Peter's , one of the largest in Rome .
Opera lovers will be interested to learn that this church was the scene for the first act of Tosca .
At this point you cross the wide Corso Vittorio Emanuele 2 , , walk along the Corso Del Rinascimento a couple of hundred yards , then turn left on the Via Dei Canestrani to enter the splendid Piazza Navona , one of the truly glorious sights in Rome .
Your first impression of this elongated square with its three elegant fountains , its two churches that almost face each other , and its russet-colored buildings , is a sense of restful spaciousness -- particularly welcome after wandering around the narrow and dark streets that you have followed since starting this walk .
The site of the oblong piazza is Domitian's ancient stadium , which was probably used for horse and chariot races .
For centuries it was the location of historic festivals and open-air sports events .
From the seventeenth to the nineteenth century it was a popular practice to flood the piazza in the summer , and the aristocrats would then ride around the inundated square in their carriages .
Giovanni Bernini's `` Fountain of the Rivers '' , in the center of the piazza , is built around a Roman obelisk from the Circus of Maxentius which rests on grottoes and rocks , with four huge figures , one at each corner , denoting four great rivers from different continents -- the Danube , the Ganges , the Nile , and the Plate .
The eyes of the figure of the Nile are covered , perhaps either to symbolize the mystery of her source or to obscure from her sight the baroque facade of the Church of Sant' Agnese in Agone , the work of Bernini's rival , Borromini .
In the Piazza Navona there are many delightful cafes where you can sit , have a drink or lunch , and watch the fountains in the square .
The scene before you is indeed theatrical and often appears in movies about Rome .
Perhaps a street musician will pass to add that extra touch .
Take the Via Di S. Agnese in Agone , next to the church and opposite the center of the square , then turn right after about two hundred yards to reach the beautiful Church of Santa Maria Della Pace .
Inside you will find the lovely Sibyls painted by Raphael and a chapel designed by Michelangelo .
The church's cloisters are among Donato Bramante's most beautiful creations .
Now return to the Piazza Navona and leave it on the opposite side by the Corsia Agonale ; ;
in a moment cross the Corso Del Rinascimento .
In front of you is the Palazzo Madama , once belonging to the Medici and now the Italian Senate .
Walk by the side of the palazzo and after two blocks along the Via Giustiniani you will come to the Piazza Della Rotonda .
You are now facing the Pantheon , the largest and best-preserved building still standing from the days of ancient Rome .
This circular edifice , constructed by Agrippa in B.C. 27 , was rebuilt in its present shape by the Emperor Hadrian .
It was dedicated as a church in the seventh century .
As you pause in the piazza by the Egyptian obelisk brought from the Temple of Isis , you will admire the Pantheon's impressive Corinthian columns .
The Pantheon's interior , still in its original form , is truly majestic and an architectural triumph .
Its rotunda forms a perfect circle whose diameter is equal to the height from the floor to the ceiling .
The only means of interior light is the twenty-nine-foot-wide aperture in the stupendous dome .
Standing before the tomb of Raphael , the great genius of the Renaissance , when shafts of sunlight are penetrating this great Roman temple , you are once again reminded of the varied civilizations so characteristic of Rome .
As you leave the Pantheon , take the narrow street to the right , the Via Del Seminario , a block to Sant' Ignazio , one of the most splendid baroque churches in the city .
( Along the way there , about one hundred yards on your right , you pass a simple restaurant , La Sacrestia , where you can have the best pizza in Rome .
) The curve of faded terra-cotta-colored houses in front of the church seems like a stage set .
This is one of the most charming little squares in this part of Rome .
One block along the Via De Burro ( in front of the church ) will bring you to the Stock Exchange in the old Temple of Neptune .
A few yards farther , on the Via Dei Bergamaschi , is the Piazza Colonna .
The great column from which the square takes its name was erected by the Emperor Marcus Aurelius .
You are now at the Corso , though narrow , one of Rome's busiest streets .
Horse races took place here in the Middle Ages .
If you have taken this stroll in the morning , and you have the time and inclination , walk to the right along the crowded Corso for half a dozen blocks to visit the fine private collection of paintings -- mainly of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries -- in the Palazzo Doria ( open Sunday , Tuesday , and Thursday , 10:00 to 1:00 ) .
Here is your opportunity to see the inside of a palazzo where the family still lives .
Otherwise , cross over the Corso and walk a block or so to the left .
You will come to Alemagna , a delightful , though moderately expensive restaurant , which is particularly noted for its exceptional selection of ice creams and patisseries .
Either here , or in one of the modest restaurants nearby , is just the place to end this first walk through the heart of Rome .
To the Spanish steps
The second walk through the heart of Rome should be taken after lunch , so that you will reach the Pincian Hill when the soft light of the late afternoon is at its best .
Rare , indeed , is the Harlem citizen , from the most circumspect church member to the most shiftless adolescent , who does not have a long tale to tell of police incompetence , injustice , or brutality .
I myself have witnessed and endured it more than once .
The businessmen and racketeers also have a story .
And so do the prostitutes .
( And this is not , perhaps , the place to discuss Harlem's very complex attitude toward black policemen , nor the reasons , according to Harlem , that they are nearly all downtown .
)
It is hard , on the other hand , to blame the policeman , blank , good-natured , thoughtless , and insuperably innocent , for being such a perfect representative of the people he serves .
He , too , believes in good intentions and is astounded and offended when they are not taken for the deed .
He has never , himself , done anything for which to be hated -- which of us has ? ?
-- and yet he is facing , daily and nightly , people who would gladly see him dead , and he knows it .
There is no way for him not to know it : there are few things under heaven more unnerving than the silent , accumulating contempt and hatred of a people .
He moves through Harlem , therefore , like an occupying soldier in a bitterly hostile country ; ;
which is precisely what , and where , he is , and is the reason he walks in twos and threes .
And he is not the only one who knows why he is always in company : the people who are watching him know why , too .
Any street meeting , sacred or secular , which he and his colleagues uneasily cover has as its explicit or implicit burden the cruelty and injustice of the white domination .
And these days , of course , in terms increasingly vivid and jubilant , it speaks of the end of that domination .
The white policeman standing on a Harlem street corner finds himself at the very center of the revolution now occurring in the world .
He is not prepared for it -- naturally , nobody is -- and , what is possibly much more to the point , he is exposed , as few white people are , to the anguish of the black people around him .
Even if he is gifted with the merest mustard grain of imagination , something must seep in .
He cannot avoid observing that some of the children , in spite of their color , remind him of children he has known and loved , perhaps even of his own children .
He knows that he certainly does not want his children living this way .
He can retreat from his uneasiness in only one direction : into a callousness which very shortly becomes second nature .
He becomes more callous , the population becomes more hostile , the situation grows more tense , and the police force is increased .
One day , to everyone's astonishment , someone drops a match in the powder keg and everything blows up .
Before the dust has settled or the blood congealed , editorials , speeches , and civil-rights commissions are loud in the land , demanding to know what happened .
What happened is that Negroes want to be treated like men .
Negroes want to be treated like men : a perfectly straightforward statement , containing only seven words .
People who have mastered Kant , Hegel , Shakespeare , Marx , Freud , and the Bible find this statement utterly impenetrable .
The idea seems to threaten profound , barely conscious assumptions .
A kind of panic paralyzes their features , as though they found themselves trapped on the edge of a steep place .
I once tried to describe to a very well-known American intellectual the conditions among Negroes in the South .
My recital disturbed him and made him indignant ; ;
and he asked me in perfect innocence , `` Why don't all the Negroes in the South move North '' ? ?
I tried to explain what has happened , unfailingly , whenever a significant body of Negroes move North .
They do not escape Jim Crow : they merely encounter another , not-less-deadly variety .
They do not move to Chicago , they move to the South Side ; ;
they do not move to New York , they move to Harlem .
The pressure within the ghetto causes the ghetto walls to expand , and this expansion is always violent .
White people hold the line as long as they can , and in as many ways as they can , from verbal intimidation to physical violence .
But inevitably the border which has divided the ghetto from the rest of the world falls into the hands of the ghetto .
The white people fall back bitterly before the black horde ; ;
the landlords make a tidy profit by raising the rent , chopping up the rooms , and all but dispensing with the upkeep ; ;
and what has once been a neighborhood turns into a `` turf '' .
This is precisely what happened when the Puerto Ricans arrived in their thousands -- and the bitterness thus caused is , as I write , being fought out all up and down those streets .
Northerners indulge in an extremely dangerous luxury .
They seem to feel that because they fought on the right side during the Civil War , and won , they have earned the right merely to deplore what is going on in the South , without taking any responsibility for it ; ;
and that they can ignore what is happening in Northern cities because what is happening in Little Rock or Birmingham is worse .
Well , in the first place , it is not possible for anyone who has not endured both to know which is `` worse '' .
I know Negroes who prefer the South and white Southerners , because `` At least there , you haven't got to play any guessing games '' ! !
The guessing games referred to have driven more than one Negro into the narcotics ward , the madhouse , or the river .
I know another Negro , a man very dear to me , who says , with conviction and with truth , `` The spirit of the South is the spirit of America '' .
He was born in the North and did his military training in the South .
He did not , as far as I can gather , find the South `` worse '' ; ;
he found it , if anything , all too familiar .
In the second place , though , even if Birmingham is worse , no doubt Johannesburg , South Africa , beats it by several miles , and Buchenwald was one of the worst things that ever happened in the entire history of the world .
The world has never lacked for horrifying examples ; ;
but I do not believe that these examples are meant to be used as justification for our own crimes .
This perpetual justification empties the heart of all human feeling .
The emptier our hearts become , the greater will be our crimes .
Thirdly , the South is not merely an embarrassingly backward region , but a part of this country , and what happens there concerns every one of us .
As far as the color problem is concerned , there is but one great difference between the Southern white and the Northerner : the Southerner remembers , historically and in his own psyche , a kind of Eden in which he loved black people and they loved him .
Historically , the flaming sword laid across this Eden is the Civil War .
Personally , it is the Southerner's sexual coming of age , when , without any warning , unbreakable taboos are set up between himself and his past .
Everything , thereafter , is permitted him except the love he remembers and has never ceased to need .
The resulting , indescribable torment affects every Southern mind and is the basis of the Southern hysteria .
None of this is true for the Northerner .
Negroes represent nothing to him personally , except , perhaps , the dangers of carnality .
He never sees Negroes .
Southerners see them all the time .
Northerners never think about them whereas Southerners are never really thinking of anything else .
Negroes are , therefore , ignored in the North and are under surveillance in the South , and suffer hideously in both places .
Neither the Southerner nor the Northerner is able to look on the Negro simply as a man .
It seems to be indispensable to the national self-esteem that the Negro be considered either as a kind of ward ( in which case we are told how many Negroes , comparatively , bought Cadillacs last year and how few , comparatively , were lynched ) , or as a victim ( in which case we are promised that he will never vote in our assemblies or go to school with our kids ) .
They are two sides of the same coin and the South will not change -- cannot change -- until the North changes .
The country will not change until it re-examines itself and discovers what it really means by freedom .
In the meantime , generations keep being born , bitterness is increased by incompetence , pride , and folly , and the world shrinks around us .
It is a terrible , an inexorable , law that one cannot deny the humanity of another without diminishing one's own : in the face of one's victim , one sees oneself .
Walk through the streets of Harlem and see what we , this nation , have become .
4 .
East River , downtown : postscript to a letter from Harlem
the fact that American Negroes rioted in the U.N. while Adlai Stevenson was addressing the Assembly shocked and baffled most white Americans .
Stevenson's speech , and the spectacular disturbance in the gallery , were both touched off by the death , in Katanga , the day before , of Patrice Lumumba .
Stevenson stated , in the course of his address , that the United States was `` against '' colonialism .
God knows what the African nations , who hold 25 per cent of the voting stock in the U.N. were thinking -- they may , for example , have been thinking of the U.S. abstention when the vote on Algerian freedom was before the Assembly -- but I think I have a fairly accurate notion of what the Negroes in the gallery were thinking .
I had intended to be there myself .
It was my first reaction upon hearing of Lumumba's death .
I was curious about the impact of this political assassination on Negroes in Harlem , for Lumumba had -- has -- captured the popular imagination there .
I was curious to know if Lumumba's death , which is surely among the most sinister of recent events , would elicit from `` our '' side anything more than the usual , well-meaning rhetoric .
And I was curious about the African reaction .
However , the chaos on my desk prevented my being in the U.N. gallery .
Had I been there , I , too , in the eyes of most Americans , would have been merely a pawn in the hands of the Communists .
The climate and the events of the last decade , and the steady pressure of the `` cold '' war , have given Americans yet another means of avoiding self-examination , and so it has been decided that the riots were `` Communist '' inspired .
Nor was it long , naturally , before prominent Negroes rushed forward to assure the republic that the U.N. rioters do not represent the real feeling of the Negro community .
According , then , to what I take to be the prevailing view , these rioters were merely a handful of irresponsible , Stalinist-corrupted provocateurs .
I find this view amazing .
It is a view which even a minimal effort at observation would immediately contradict .
One has only , for example , to walk through Harlem and ask oneself two questions .
The first question is : Would I like to live here ? ?
And the second question is : Why don't those who now live here move out ? ?
The answer to both questions is immediately obvious .
Unless one takes refuge in the theory -- however disguised -- that Negroes are , somehow , different from white people , I do not see how one can escape the conclusion that the Negro's status in this country is not only a cruel injustice but a grave national liability .
Now , I do not doubt that , among the people at the U.N. that day , there were Stalinist and professional revolutionists acting out of the most cynical motives .
Wherever there is great social discontent , these people are , sooner or later , to be found .
Their presence is not as frightening as the discontent which creates their opportunity .
What I find appalling -- and really dangerous -- is the American assumption that the Negro is so contented with his lot here that only the cynical agents of a foreign power can rouse him to protest .
It is a notion which contains a gratuitous insult , implying , as it does , that Negroes can make no move unless they are manipulated .
Color was delayed until 1935 , the wide screen until the early fifties .
Movement itself was the chief and often the only attraction of the primitive movies of the nineties .
Each film consisted of fifty feet , which gives a running time of about one minute on the screen .
As long as audiences came to see the movement , there seemed little reason to adventure further .
Motion-picture exhibitions took place in stores in a general atmosphere like that of the penny arcade which can still be found in such urban areas as Times Square .
Brief snips of actual events were shown : parades , dances , street scenes .
The sensational and frightening enjoyed popularity : a train rushes straight at the audience , or a great wave threatens to break over the seats .
An early Edison production was The Execution Of Mary , Queen Of Scots .
The unfortunate queen mounted the scaffold ; ;
the headsman swung his axe ; ;
the head dropped off ; ;
end of film .
An early film by a competitor of the Wizard of Menlo Park simply showed a long kiss performed by two actors of the contemporary stage .
In the field of entertainment there is no spur to financial daring so effective as audience boredom , and the first decade of the new device was not over before audiences began staying away in large numbers from the simple-minded , one-minute shows .
In response , the industry allowed the discovery of the motion picture as a form of fiction and thus gave the movies the essential form they have had to this day .
Despite the sheer beauty and spectacle of numerous documentaries , art films , and travelogues , despite the impressive financial success of such a recent development as Cinerama , the movies are at heart a form of fiction , like the play , the novel , or the short story .
Moreover , the most artistically successful of the nonfiction films have invariably borrowed the narrative form from the fiction feature .
Thus such great American documentaries as The River and The Plow That Broke The Plains were composed as visual stories rather than as illustrated lectures .
The discovery that movies are a form of fiction was made in the early years of this century and it was made chiefly by two men , a French magician , Georges Melies , and an American employee of Edison , Edwin S. Porter .
Of the two , Porter is justly the better known , for he went far beyond the vital finding of fiction for films to take the first step toward fashioning a language of film , toward making the motion picture the intricate , efficient time machine that it has remained since , even in the most inept hands .
Narrative time and film time
Melies , however , out of his professional instincts as a magician , discovered and made use of a number of illusionary techniques that remain part of the vocabulary of film .
One of these is the `` dissolve '' , which makes possible a visually smooth transition from scene to scene .
As the first scene begins to fade , the succeeding scene begins to appear .
For a moment or two , both scenes are present simultaneously , one growing weaker , one growing stronger .
In a series of fairy tales and fantasies , Melies demonstrated that the film is superbly equipped to tell a straightforward story , with beginning , middle and end , complications , resolutions , climaxes , and conclusions .
Immediately , the film improved and it improved because in narrative it found a content based on time to complement its own unbreakable connection with time .
Physically , a movie is possible because a series of images is projected one at a time at such a speed that the eye `` remembers '' the one that has gone before even as it registers the one now appearing .
Linking the smoothly changing images together , the eye itself endows them with the illusion of movement .
The `` projection '' time of painting and sculpture is highly subjective , varying from person to person and even varying for a given person on different occasions .
So is the time of the novel .
The drama in the theater and the concert in the hall both have a fixed time , but the time is fixed by the director and the players , the conductor and the instrumentalists , subject , therefore , to much variation , as record collectors well know .
The time of the motion picture is fixed absolutely .
The film consists of a series of still , transparent photographs , or `` frames '' , 35-mm.-wide .
Each frame comes between the light and the lens and is individually projected on the screen , at the rate , for silent movies , of 16 frames per second , and , for sound films , 24 frames per second .
This is the rate of projection ; ;
it is also the rate of photographing .
Time is built into the motion picture , which cannot exist without time .
Now time is also the concern of the fictional narrative , which is , at its simplest , the story of an action with , usually , a beginning , a middle , and an end -- elements which demand time as the first condition for their existence .
The `` moving '' picture of the train or the wave coming at the audience is , to be sure , more intense than a still picture of the same subject , but the difference is really one of degree ; ;
the cinematic element of time is merely used to increase the realism of an object which would still be reasonably realistic in a still photo .
In narrative , time is essential , as it is in film .
Almost everything about the movies that is peculiarly of the movies derives from a tension created and maintained between narrative time and film time .
This discovery of Melies was vastly more important than his sometimes dazzling , magician's tricks produced on film .
It was Porter , however , who produced the very first movie whose name has lived on through the half century of film history that has since ensued .
The movie was The Great Train Robbery and its effects on the young industry and art were all but incalculable .
Overnight , for one thing , Porter's film multiplied the standard running time of movies by ten .
The Great Train Robbery is a one-reel film .
One reel -- from eight to twelve minutes -- became the standard length from the year of Robbery , 1903 , until Griffith shattered that limit forever with Birth Of A Nation in 1915 .
The reel itself became and still is the standard of measure for the movies .
The material of the Porter film is simplicity itself ; ;
much of it has continued to be used over the years and the heart of it -- good guys and bad guys in the old West -- pretty well dominated television toward the end of the 1950's .
A band of robbers enters a railroad station , overpowers and ties up the telegraph operator , holds up the train and escapes .
A posse is formed and pursues the robbers , who , having made their escape , are whooping it up with some wild , wild women in a honky-tonk hide-out .
The robbers run from the hide-out , take cover in a wooded declivity , and are shot dead by the posse .
As a finale is appended a close-up of one of the band taking aim and firing his revolver straight at the audience .
All this is simple enough , but in telling the story Porter did two important things that had not been done before .
Each scene is shot straight through , as had been the universal custom , from a camera fixed in a single position , but in the outdoor scenes , especially in the capture and destruction of the outlaws , Porter's camera position breaks , necessarily , with the camera position standard until then , which had been , roughly , that of a spectator in a center orchestra seat at a play .
The plane of the action in the scene is not parallel with the plane of the film in the camera or on the screen .
If the change , at first sight , seems minor , we may recall that it took the Italian painters about two hundred years to make an analogous change , and the Italian painters , by universal consent , were the most brilliant group of geniuses any art has seen .
In that apparently simple shift Porter opened the way to the sensitive use of the camera as an instrument of art as well as a mechanical recording device .
He did more than that .
He revealed the potential value of the `` cut '' as the basic technique in the art of the film .
Cutting , of course , takes place automatically in the creation of a film .
The meaning of the word is quite physical , to begin with .
The physical film is cut with a knife at the end of one complete sequence , and the cut edge is joined physically , by cement , to the cut edge of the beginning of the next sequence .
If , as a home movie maker , you shoot the inevitable footage of your child taking its first steps , you have merely recorded an historical event .
If , in preparing that shot for the inevitable showing to your friends , you interrupt the sequence to paste in a few frames of the child's grandmother watching this event , you have begun to be an artist in film ; ;
you are employing the basic technique of film ; ;
you are cutting .
This is what Porter did .
As the robbers leave the looted train , the film suddenly cuts back to the station , where the telegrapher's little daughter arrives with her father's dinner pail only to find him bound on the floor .
She dashes around in alarm .
The two events are taking place at the same time .
Time and space have both become cinematic .
We leap from event to event -- including the formation of the posse -- even though the events , in `` reality '' are taking place not in sequence but simultaneously , and not near each other but at a considerable distance .
The `` chase '' as a standard film device probably dates from The Great Train Robbery , and there is a reason for the continued popularity of the device .
The chase in itself is a narrative ; ;
it presumes both speed and urgency and it demands cutting -- both from pursued to pursuer and from stage to stage of the journey of both .
The simple , naked idea of one man chasing another is of its nature better fitted for the film than it is for any other form of fiction .
The cowboy films , the cops and robbers films , and the slapstick comedy films culminating in an insane chase are not only catering to what critics may assume to be a vulgar taste for violence ; ;
these films and these sequences are also seeking out -- instinctively or by design -- the peculiarly cinematic elements of narrative .
The creator of the art of the film : D.W. Griffith
There still remained the need for one great film artist to explore the full potential of the new form and to make it an art .
The man was D.W. Griffith .
When he came to the movies -- more or less by accident -- they were still cheap entertainment capable of enthralling the unthinking for an idle few minutes .
In about seven years Griffith either invented or first realized the possibilities of virtually every resource at the disposal of the film maker .
Before he was forty Griffith had created the art of the film .
Not that there had not been attempts , mostly European , to do exactly that .
But in general the European efforts to make an art of the entertainment had ignored the slowly emerging language of the film itself .
Staggeringly condensed versions of famous novels and famous plays were presented .
Great actors and actresses -- the most notable being Sarah Bernhardt -- were hired to repeat their stage performances before the camera .
In all of this extensive and expensive effort , the camera was downgraded to the status of recording instrument for art work produced elsewhere by the actor or by the author .
The phonograph today , for all its high fidelity and stereophonic sound , is precisely what the early art purveyors in the movies wished to make of the camera .
Not surprisingly , this approach did not work .
The effort produced a valuable record of stage techniques in the early years of the century and some interesting records of great theater figures who would otherwise be only names .
But no art at all was born of the art effort in the early movies .
In general , religious interest seems to exist in all parts of the metropolis ; ;
congregational membership , however , is another thing .
A congregation survives only if it can sustain a socially homogeneous membership ; ;
that is , when it can preserve economic integration .
Religious faith can be considered a necessary condition of membership in a congregation , since the decision to join a worshiping group requires some motive force , but faith is not a sufficient condition for joining ; ;
the presence of other members of similar social and economic level is the sufficient condition .
The breakdown of social homogeneity in inner city areas and the spread of inner city blight account for the decline of central city churches .
Central cities reveal two adverse features for the major denominations : ( 1 ) central cities tend to be areas of residence for lower social classes ; ;
( 2 ) central cities tend to be more heterogeneous in social composition .
The central city areas , in other words , exhibit the two characteristics which violate the life principle of congregations of the major denominations : they have too few middle-class people ; ;
they mix middle-class people with lower-class residents .
Central city areas have become progressively poorer locales for the major denominations since the exodus of middle-class people from most central cities .
With few exceptions , the major denominations are rapidly losing their hold on the central city .
The key to Protestant development , therefore , is economic integration of the nucleus of the congregation .
Members of higher and lower social status often cluster around this nucleus , so that Protestant figures on social class give the impression of spread over all social classes ; ;
but this is deceptive , for the core of membership is concentrated in a single social and economic stratum .
The congregation perishes when it is no longer possible to replenish that core from the neighborhood ; ;
moreover , residential mobility is so high in metropolitan areas that churches have to recruit constantly in their core stratum in order to survive ; ;
they can lose higher- and lower-status members from the church without collapsing , but they need adequate recruits for the core stratum in order to preserve economic integration .
The congregation is first and foremost an economic peer group ; ;
it is secondarily a believing and worshiping fellowship .
If it were primarily a believing fellowship , it would recruit believers from all social and economic ranks , something which most congregations of the New Protestantism ( with a few notable exceptions ) have not been able to do .
They survive only when they can recruit social and economic peers .
The vulnerability of Protestant congregations to social differences has often been attributed to the `` folksy spirit '' of Protestant religious life ; ;
in fact , a contrast is often drawn in this regard with the `` impersonal '' Roman Catholic parish .
We have seen that the folksy spirit is confined to economic peers ; ;
consequently , the vulnerability to social difference should not be attributed to the stress on personal community in Protestant congregations ; ;
actually , there is little evidence of such personal community in Protestant congregations , as we shall see in another connection .
The vulnerability of Protestantism to social differences stems from the peculiar role of the new religious style in middle-class life , where the congregation is a vehicle of social and economic group identity and must conform , therefore , to the principle of economic integration .
This fact is evident in the recruitment of new members .
Mission as co-optation
The rule of economic integration in congregational life can be seen in the missionary outreach of the major denominations .
There is much talk in theological circles about the `` Church as Mission '' and the `` Church's Mission '' ; ;
theologians have been stressing the fact that the Church does not exist for its own sake but as a testimony in the world for the healing of the world .
A crucial question , therefore , is what evangelism and mission actually mean in metropolitan Protestantism .
If economic integration really shapes congregational life , then evangelism should be a process of extending economic integration .
The task of a congregation would be defined , according to economic integration , as the work of co-opting individuals and families of similar social and economic position to replenish the nuclear core of the congregation .
( Co-optation means to choose by joint action in order to fill a vacancy ; ;
it can also mean the assimilation of centers of power from an environment in order to strengthen an organization .
) In a mobile society , congregational health depends on a constant process of recruitment ; ;
this recruitment , however , must follow the pattern of economic integration or it will disrupt the congregation ; ;
therefore , the recruitment or missionary outreach of the congregation will be co-optation rather than proclamation -- like elements will have to be assimilated .
Evangelism and congregational outreach have not been carefully studied in the churches ; ;
one study in Pittsburgh , however , has illuminated the situation .
In a sample of new members of Pittsburgh churches , almost 60 per cent were recruited by initial `` contacts with friendly members '' .
If we add to these contacts with friendly members the `` contacts with an organization of the church '' ( 11.2 per cent of the cases ) , then a substantial two thirds of all recruitment is through friendly contact .
On the surface , this seems a sound approach to Christian mission : members of the congregation show by their friendly attitudes that they care for new people ; ;
the new people respond in kind by joining the church .
Missionary outreach by friendly contact looks somewhat different when one reflects on what is known about friendly contact in metropolitan neighborhoods ; ;
the majority of such contacts are with people of similar social and economic position ; ;
association by level of achievement is the dominant principle of informal relations .
This means that the antennae of the congregation are extended into the community , picking up the wave lengths of those who will fit into the social and economic level of the congregation ; ;
the mission of the church is actually a process of informal co-optation ; ;
the lay ministry is a means to recruit like-minded people who will strengthen the social class nucleus of the congregation .
Churches can be strengthened through this process of co-optation so long as the environs of the church provide a sufficient pool of people who can fit the pattern of economic integration ; ;
once the pool of recruits diminishes , the congregation is helpless -- friendly contacts no longer keep it going .
The transmutation of mission to co-optation is further indicated by the insignificance of educational activities , worship , preaching , and publicity in reaching new members .
The proclamation of the churches is almost totally confined to pastoral contacts by the clergy ( 17.3 per cent of new members ) and friendly contacts by members ( over two thirds if organizational activities are included ) .
Publicity accounted for 1.1 per cent of the initial contacts with new members .
In general , friendly contact with a member followed by contact with a clergyman will account for a major share of recruitment by the churches , making it quite evident that the extension of economic integration through co-optation is the principal form of mission in the contemporary church ; ;
economic integration and co-optation are the two methods by which Protestants associate with and recruit from the neighborhood .
The inner life of congregations will prosper so long as like-minded people of similar social and economic level can fraternize together ; ;
the outer life of congregations -- the suitability of the environment to their survival -- will be propitious so long as the people in the area are of the same social and economic level as the membership .
Economic integration ceases when the social and economic statuses in an area become too mixed or conflict with the status of the congregation .
In a rapidly changing society congregations will run into difficulties repeatedly , since such nice balances of economic integration are hard to sustain in the metropolis for more than a single generation .
The fact that metropolitan churches of the major denominations have moved approximately every generation for the last hundred years becomes somewhat more intelligible in the light of this struggle to maintain economic balance .
The expense of this type of organization in religious life , when one recalls the number of city churches which deteriorated beyond repair before being abandoned , raises fundamental questions about the principle of Protestant survival in a mobile society ; ;
nonetheless , the prevalence of economic integration in congregations illumines the nature of the Protestant development .
It was observed in the introductory chapter that metropolitan life had split into two trends -- expanding interdependence on an impersonal basis and growing exclusiveness in local communal groupings .
These trends seem to be working at cross-purposes in the metropolis .
Residential associations struggle to insulate themselves against intrusions .
The motifs of impersonal interdependence and insulation of residential communities have polarized ; ;
the schism between central city and suburb , Negro and White , blue collar and white collar can be viewed as symptomatic of this deeper polarization of trends in the metropolis .
It now becomes evident that the denominational church is intimately involved with the economy of middle-class culture , for it serves to crystallize the social class identity of middle-class residential groupings .
The accelerated pace of metropolitan changes has accentuated the drive to conformity in congregations of the major denominations .
This conformity represents a desperate attempt to stabilize a hopelessly unstable environment .
More than creatures of metropolitan forces , the churches have taken the lead in counteracting the interdependence of metropolitan life , crystallizing and perpetuating the stratification of peoples , giving form to the struggle for social homogeneity in a world of heterogeneous peoples .
Since American life is committed above all to productivity and a higher standard of economic life , the countervailing forces of residential and religious exclusiveness have fought a desperate , rearguard action against the expanding interdependence of the metropolis .
Consumer communities have suffered at the hands of the productive interests .
Negroes , Puerto Ricans , and rural newcomers are slowly making their way into the cities .
Soon they will fight their way into the lower middle-class suburbs , and the churches will experience the same decay and rebuilding cycle which has characterized their history for a century .
The identification of the basic unit of religious organization -- the parish or congregation -- with a residential area is self-defeating in a modern metropolis , for it simply means the closing of an iron trap on the outreach of the Christian fellowship and the transmutation of mission to co-optation .
Mission to the metropolis contradicts survival of the congregation in the residential community , because the middle classes are fighting metropolitan interdependence with residential exclusion .
This interpretation of the role of residence in the economy of middle-class culture could lead to various projections for the churches .
It could be argued that any fellowship which centers in residential neighborhoods is doomed to become an expression of the panic for stable identity among the middle classes .
It could be argued that only such neighborhoods can sustain religious activity , since worship presupposes some local stabilities .
Whatever projection one makes , the striking fact about congregational and parochial life is the extent to which it is a vehicle of the social identity of middle-class people .
Attention will be given in the next chapter to the style of association in the denominational churches ; ;
this style is characteristically an expression of the communal style of the middle classes .
The keynotes of this style are activism and emphasis on achievements in gaining self-esteem .
These values give direction to the life of the middle-class man or woman , dictating the methods of child rearing , determining the pattern of community participation , setting the style for the psychiatric treatment of middle-class illness , and informing the congregational life of the major denominations .
`` Fellowship by likeness '' and `` mission by friendly contact '' form the iron cage of denominational religion .
Its contents are another matter , for they reveal the kinds of interests pursued by the congregation .
What goes on in the cage will occupy our attention under the rubric of the organization church .
An understanding of the new role of residential association in an industrial society serves to illuminate the forces which have fashioned the iron cage of conformity which imprisons the churches in their suburban captivity .
The perplexing question still remains as to why the middle classes turn to the churches as a vehicle of social identity when their clubs and charities should fill the same need .
With capital largely squandered , there seemed to them no other course to pursue .
The directors sold directly to concessionaires , who had to make their profits above the high prices asked by the company .
These concessionaires traded where they wished and generally dealt with the Indians through engages , who might be habitants , voyageurs , or even soldiers .
The concessionaires also had to pay a tax of one-tenth on the goods they traded , and all pelts were to be taken to company stores and shipped to France in company ships .
The company disposed of the pelts , but with what profit , the records do not show .
In accord with its penurious policy , the company failed to furnish presents to hold the loyalty of the principal Indians .
The lavish use of presents had been effective in expanding the Indian trade of New France and Louisiana in the previous century , and the change in liberality aroused resentment in the minds of the red men .
Traders from the English colonies were far more generous , and Indian loyalty turned to them .
Protests from governors and intendants passed unheeded , and the parsimonious policy of the company probably let loose Indian insurrections that brought ruin to the company .
In 1721 the King sent three commissioners to Louisiana with full powers to do all that was necessary to protect the colony .
They ordered the raising of troops and obtained 75,000 livres with which to build forts .
They adopted a program by which Louisiana was divided into five districts .
In each of these there was to be a strong military post , and a trading depot to supply the smaller trading houses .
For southeastern Louisiana , Mobile was the principal post , and it was to furnish supplies for trade to the north and east , in the region threatened by British traders .
Mobile was to be the anchor of a chain of posts extending northward to the sources of the Tennessee River .
Fort Toulouse , on the Alabama River , had been erected in 1714 for trade with the Alabamas and Choctaws , but money was available for only one other new post , near the present Nashville , Tennessee , and this was soon abandoned .
West of the Mobile district was the lower Mississippi district , of which New Orleans was headquarters .
Dependent upon it were posts on the lower Mississippi and the region westward to the frontiers of New Spain .
On the middle Mississippi a principal post was to be located near the mouth of the Arkansas .
It was hoped that to this post would flow a large quantity of furs from the west , principally down the Arkansas River .
On the Ohio or Wabash was to be built another post `` at the fork of two great rivers '' .
Other posts would be established up the Ohio and Wabash to protect communication with Canada .
On the upper Mississippi the Illinois post was to be established near Kaskaskia , and dependent posts were to be built on the Missouri , `` where there are mines in abundance '' .
Each of the five principal posts was to have a director , responsible to a director-general at New Orleans .
An elaborate system of accounting and reports was worked out , and the trade was to be managed in the most scientific way .
Concessionaires were to be under the supervision of the directors .
Engages must be loyal to the concessionaires , and must serve until the term provided in the engagement was ended .
The habitants were to be encouraged to trade and were to dispose of their pelts to the concessionaires .
Only two principal storehouses were actually established -- one at Mobile , the other at New Orleans .
New Orleans supplied the goods for the trade on the Mississippi , and west of that river , and on the Ohio and Wabash .
Mobile was also supplied by New Orleans with goods for the Mobile district .
The power that Bienville exercised during his first administration cannot be determined .
Regulations for the Indian trade were made by the Conseil superieure de la Louisiane , and Bienville apparently did not have control of that body .
The Conseil even treated the serious matter of British aggression as its business and , on its own authority , sent to disaffected savages merchandise `` suitable for the peltry trade '' .
It decided , also , that the purely secular efforts of Bienville were insufficient , and sent missionaries to win the savages from the heathen Carolinians .
During the first administration of Bienville , the peltry trade of the Mobile district was a lucrative source of revenue .
The Alabamas brought in annually 15,000 to 20,000 deerskins , and the Choctaws and Chickasaws brought the total up to 50,000 pelts .
These deerskins were the raw material for the manufacture of leather , and were the only articles which the tribes of this district had to exchange for European goods .
During his first administration , Bienville succeeded in keeping Carolina traders out of the Alabama country and the Choctaw country .
The director of the post at Mobile kept an adequate amount of French goods , of a kind to which they were accustomed , to supply the Indian needs .
The Alabama and Tombigbee rivers furnished a highway by which goods could be moved quickly and cheaply .
De La Laude , commander of the Alabama post , had the friendship of the natives , and was able to make them look upon the British as poor competitors .
Diron D'Artaguette , the most prominent trader in the district , was energetic and resourceful , but his methods often aroused the ire of the French governors .
He became , after a time , commander of a post on the Alabama River , but his operations extended from Mobile throughout the district , and he finally obtained a monopoly of the Indian trade .
The Chickasaws were the principal source of trouble in the Mobile district .
Their territory lay to the north , near the sources of the Alabama , the Tombigbee , the Tennessee , and Cumberland rivers , and was easily accessible to traders among the near-by Cherokees .
In 1720 some Chickasaws massacred the French traders among them , and did not make peace for four years .
Venturesome traders , however , continued to come to them from Mobile , and to obtain a considerable number of pelts for the French markets .
British traders from South Carolina incited the Indians against the French , and there developed French and British Factions in the tribe .
The Chickasaws finally were the occasion for the most disastrous wars during the French control of Louisiana .
To hold them was an essential part of French policy , for they controlled the upper termini of the routes from the north to Mobile .
They threatened constantly to give the British a hold on this region , from whence they could move easily down the rivers to the French settlements near the Gulf .
Bienville realized that if the French were to hold the southeastern tribes against the enticements of British goods , French traders must be able to offer a supply as abundant as the Carolinians and at reasonable prices .
His urgings brought some results .
The Company of the Indies promised to send over a supply of Indian trading goods , and to price them more cheaply in terms of deerskins .
But it coupled with this a requirement that Indians must bring their pelts to Mobile and thus save all costs of transportation into and out of the Indian country .
The insistence of Bienville upon giving liberal prices to the Indians , in order to drive back the Carolina traders , was probably a factor that led to his recall in 1724 .
For two years his friend and cousin , Boisbriant , remained as acting governor and could do little to stem the Anglican advance .
Although he incited a few friendly Indians to pillage the invaders , and even kill some of them , the Carolina advance continued .
The company was impressed with some ideas of the danger from Carolina , and when Perier came over as governor in 1727 , he was given special instructions regarding the trade of the Mobile district .
But the Company of the Indies , holding to its program of economy , made no arrangements to furnish better goods at attractive prices .
To the directors the problem appeared a matter of intrigue or diplomacy .
Perier attempted to understand the problem by sending agents to inquire among the Indians .
These agents were to ascertain the difference between English and French goods , and the prices charged the Indians .
They were to conciliate the unfriendly savages , and , wherever possible , to incite the natives to pillage the traders from Carolina .
They were to promise fine presents to the loyal red men , as well as an abundant supply of trading goods at better prices than the opposition was offering .
Perier's intrigues gained some successes .
The savages divided into two factions ; ;
one was British and the other , French .
So hostile did these factions become that , among the Choctaws , civil war broke out .
Perier's efforts , however , were on the whole ineffective in winning back the tribes of the Mobile district , and he decided to send troops into the troubled country .
He asked the government for two hundred soldiers , who were to be specifically assigned to arrest English traders and disloyal Indians .
In spite of the company's restrictions , he planned to build new posts in the territory .
He asked also for more supplies to trade at a low price for the Indians' pelts .
No help came from the crown , and Perier , in desperation , gave a monopoly of the Indian trade in the district to D'Artaguette .
D'Artaguette went vigorously to work , and gave credit to many hunters .
But they brought back few pelts to pay their debts , and soon French trade in the region was at an end .
Perier finally , in one last bid in 1730 , cut the price of goods to an advance of 40 per cent above the cost in France .
The Indians were not impressed and held to the Carolina traders , who swarmed over the country , almost to the Mississippi .
With the loss of the Mobile trade , which ended all profits from Louisiana , the Natchez Indians revolted .
They destroyed a trading house and pillaged the goods , and harassed French shipping on the Mississippi .
The war to subdue them taxed the resources of the colony and piled up enormous debts .
In January , 1731 , the company asked the crown to relieve it of the government of the colony .
It stated that it had lost 20,000,000 livres in its operations , and apparently blamed its poor success largely on the Indian trade .
It offered to surrender its right to exclusive trade , but asked an indemnity .
The King accepted the surrender and fixed the compensation of the company at 1,450,000 livres .
Thenceforth , the commerce of Louisiana was free to all Frenchmen .
Company rule in Louisiana left the colony without fortifications , arms , munitions , or supplies .
The difficulties of trade had ruined many voyageurs , and numbers of them had gone to live with the natives and rear half-blood families .
Others left the country , and there was no one familiar with the Indian trade .
If this trade should be resumed , the habitants who had come to be farmers or artisans , and soldiers discharged from the army , must be hardened to the severe life of coureurs de bois .
This was a slow and difficult course , and French trade suffered from the many mistakes of the new group of traders .
These men were without capital or experience .
Perier and Salmon , the intendant , wished either to entrust the trade to an association of merchants or to have the crown furnish goods on credit to individuals who would repay their debts with pelts .
Bienville , who returned to succeed Perier in 1732 , objected that the merchants would not accept the responsibility of managing a trade in which they could see no hope of profits .
He reported , too , that among the habitants there were none of probity and ability sufficient to justify entrusting them with the King's goods .
He did find some to trust , however , and he employed the King's soldiers to trade .
With no company to interfere , he kept close control over all the traders .
In order to compete with English traders , Bienville radically changed the price schedule .
The King should expect no profit , and an advance of only 20 per cent above the cost in France , which would cover the expense of transportation and handling , was all he charged the traders .
They would not be pleased to have it published back home that they planned a frolic in Paris or Hong Kong at the Treasury's expense .
They would be particularly displeased with the State Department if it were the source of such reports .
Few things are more perilous for the State Department than a displeased congressman .
The reason for this bears explaining for those who may wonder why State spends so much of its diplomatic energy on Congress when the Russians are so available .
First , the State Department is unique among government agencies for its lack of public supporters .
The farmers may be aroused if Congress cuts into the Agriculture Department's budget .
Businessmen will rise if Congress attacks the Commerce Department .
Labor restrains undue brutality toward the Labor Department ; ;
the Chamber of Commerce , assaults upon the Treasury .
A kaleidoscope of pressure groups make it unpleasant for the congressman who becomes ugly toward the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare .
The congressman's patriotism is always involved when he turns upon the Defense Department .
Tampering with the Post Office may infuriate every voter who can write .
With all these agencies , the congressman must constantly check the political wind and trim his sails accordingly .
No such political restraint subdues his blood when he gazes upon the State Department in anger .
In many sections he may even reap applause from press and public for giving it a good lesson .
After all , the money dispensed by State goes not to the farmer , the laborer , or the businessman , but to foreigners .
Not only do these foreigners not vote for American congressmen ; ;
they are also probably ungrateful for Uncle's Sam's bounty .
And are not the State Department men who dispense this largesse merely crackpots and do-gooders who have never met a payroll ? ?
Will not the righteous congressman be cheered at the polls if he reminds them to get right with America and if he saves the taxpayer some money by spoiling a few of their schemes ? ?
The chances are excellent that he will .
The result is that the State Department's perpetual position before Congress is the resigned pose of the whipping boy who expects to be kicked whenever the master has had a dyspeptic outing with his wife .
People in this position do not offend the master by relating his peccadilloes to the newspapers .
State keeps the junketeering list a secret .
The Department expects and receives no thanks from Congress for its discretion .
Congress is a harsh master .
State is expected to arrange the touring Cicero's foreign itinerary ; ;
its embassies are expected to supply him with reams of local money to pay his way ; ;
embassy workers are expected to entertain him according to his whim , frequently with their savings for the children's college tuition .
But come the next session of Congress , State can expect only that its summer guest will bite its hand when it goes to the Capitol asking money for diplomatic entertaining expenses abroad or for living expenses for its diplomats .
The congressman who , in Paris , may have stuffed his wallet with enough franc notes to paper the roof of Notre-Dame will systematically scream that a $200 increase in entertainment allowance for a second secretary is tantamount to debauchery of the Treasury .
In the matter of money State's most unrelenting watchdog during the Eisenhower years was Representative John J. Rooney , of Brooklyn , who controlled the purse for diplomatic administrative expenses .
Diplomats stayed up nights thinking of ways to attain peaceful coexistence , not with Nikita Khrushchev , but with John Rooney .
Nothing worked .
In the most confidential whispers ambassadors told of techniques they had tried to bring Rooney around -- friendly persuasion , groveling abasement , pressure subtly exerted through other powerful congressmen , tales of heartbreak and penury among a threadbare diplomatic corps .
Rooney remained untouched .
`` The trouble , '' explained Loy Henderson , then Deputy Undersecretary for Administration , `` is that when we get into an argument with him about this thing , it always turns out that Rooney knows more about our budget than we do '' .
One year the Department collected a file of case histories to document its argument that men in the field were paying the government's entertainment bills out of personal income .
News of the project reached the press .
Next day , reports went through the Department that Rooney had been outraged by what he considered a patent attempt to put public pressure on him for increased entertainment allowances and had sworn an oath that , that year , expense allowances would not rise a dollar .
They didn't .
The Department's constant fight with the House for money is a polite minuet compared with its periodic bloody engagements with the Senate .
Armed with constitutional power to negate the Executive's foreign policy , the Senate carries a big stick and is easily provoked to use it on the State Department's back , or on the head of the Secretary of State .
With its power to investigate , the Senate can paralyze the Secretary by keeping him in a state of perpetual testimony before committees , as it did with Dean Acheson .
John Foster Dulles escaped by keeping his personal show on the road and because Lyndon Johnson , who was then operating the Senate , refused to let it become an Inquisition .
During Dulles's first two years in office , while Republicans ran the Senate , the Department was at the mercy of men who had thirsted for its blood since 1945 .
An internal police operation managed by Scott McLeod , a former F.B.I. man installed as security officer upon congressional insistence , was part of the vengeance .
So was the attack upon Charles E. Bohlen when Eisenhower appointed him Ambassador to Moscow .
The principal mauler , however , was Senator Joseph McCarthy .
Where Acheson had fought a gallant losing battle for the Department , Dulles fed the crocodile with his subordinates .
Fretting privately but eschewing public defense of his terrorized bureaucrats , Dulles remained serene and detached while the hatchet men had their way .
In view of Eisenhower's reluctance to concede that anything was amiss in the Terror , it is doubtful that heroic intervention by Dulles could have produced anything but disaster for him and the country's foreign policy .
In any event , the example of Acheson's trampling by the Senate did not encourage Dulles to provoke it .
He elected to `` get along '' .
During this dark chapter in State Department history , men who had offered foreign-policy ideas later proven wrong by events filled the tumbrels sent up to Capitol Hill .
Their old errors of judgment were equated , in the curious logic of the time , with present treasonous intent .
Their successors , absorbing the lesson , made it a point to have few ideas .
This , in turn , brought a new fashion in senatorial criticism as the Democrats took control .
In the new style , the Department was berated as intellectually barren and unable to produce the vital ideas needed to outwit the Russians .
For three or four years in the mid-1950's , this complaint was heard rumbling up from the Senate floor whenever there was a dull legislative afternoon .
It became smart to say that the fault was with Dulles because he would not countenance thinking done by anyone but himself .
An equally tenable thesis is that the dearth of new thought was created by the Senate's own penchant for crucifying anyone whose ideas seem unorthodox to the next generation .
Getting along with foreigners
there are ninety-eight foreign embassies and legations in Washington .
They range from the Soviet Embassy on Sixteenth Street , a gray shuttered pile suggesting a funeral-accessories display house , to what Congressman Rooney has called `` that monstrosity on Thirty-fourth Street '' , the modern cement-and-glass chancery of the Belgians .
Here is the world of the chauffeured limousine and the gossip reporter , of caviar on stale crackers and the warm martini , of the poseur , the spy , the party crasher , and the patriot , of the rented tails , the double cross , and the tired Lothario .
Into its chanceries each day pour reports from ministries around the earth and an endless stream of home-office instructions on how to handle Uncle Sam in an infinite variety of contingencies .
Here are hatched plans for getting a share of the American bounty , the secret of the anti-missile missile , or an invitation to dinner .
Out of it each week go hundreds of thousands of words purporting to inform home ministries about what is really happening inside Washington .
Some , like the British and the French , maintain an elaborate system of personal contacts and have experts constantly studying special areas of the American scene .
Other embassies cable home The New York Times without changing a comma .
Each has its peculiar style .
The Soviet Embassy is popularly regarded as Russian espionage headquarters .
When Ambassador Mikhail Menshikov took it over in 1957 from Georgi Zaroubin , he made a determined effort to change this idea .
Menshikov hit Washington with a TV announcer's grin and a hearty handclasp .
To everyone's astonishment he seemed no more like the run-of-the-mine Russian ambassador than George Babbitt was like Fyodor Pavlovitch Karamazov .
Where his predecessors had glowered , Menshikov smiled .
Where they had affected the bleak social style of embalmers' assistants , Menshikov went abroad gorgeous in white tie and tails .
Overnight he became the most available man in Washington .
Speeches by the Soviet ambassador became the vogue as he obliged rural Maryland Rotarians and National Press Club alike .
In Senator Joseph McCarthy's phrase , it was the most unheard-of thing ever heard of .
A newspaperman who met him at a reception swore that he asked Menshikov : `` What should we call you '' ? ?
And that Menshikov replied : `` Just call me Mike '' .
`` Smilin' Mike '' was the sobriquet Washington gave him .
His English was usable and he used it fearlessly .
Toasting in champagne one night at the embassy , he hoisted his glass to a senator's wife and gaily cried : `` Up your bottom '' ! !
For a few giddy months that coincided with one of Moscow's smiling moods , he was the sensation of Washington .
At the State Department , hard-bitten Russian experts complained that the Capitol was out of its wits .
Newspaper punditry was inspired to remind everyone that Judas , too , had been able to smile .
The Menshikov interlude ended as larks with the Russians usually end .
Finding peaceful coexistence temporarily unsuitable because of domestic politics , Moscow resumed scowling and `` Smilin' Mike '' dropped quietly out of the press except for an occasional story reporting that he had been stoned somewhere in the Middle West .
The most inscrutable embassies are the Arabs' , and the most inscrutable of the Arabs are the Saudi Arabians .
When King Saud visited Washington , the overwhelming question consuming the press was the size of his family .
Rumor had it that his children numbered in the hundreds .
The State Department was little help on this , or on much else about Saudi Arabia .
A reporter who consulted a Middle East Information officer for routine vital statistics got nowhere until the State Department man produced from his bottom desk drawer a brochure published by the Arabian-American Oil Company .
`` This is where I get my information from '' , he confided .
`` But bring it right back .
It's the only copy I've got '' .
The size of Saud's family was still being debated when the King appeared for his first meeting with Eisenhower .
When it ended , a dusky sheik in desert robes flowed into Hagerty's office to report on the interview .
The massed reporters brushed aside the customary bromides about Saudi-American friendship to bore in on the central question .
How many children did the King have ? ?
`` Twenty-one '' , replied the sheik .
And how many of these were sons ? ?
`` Twenty-five '' , the sheik replied .
`` Do you mean to tell us '' , a reporter asked , `` that the King has twenty-one children , twenty-five of whom are sons '' ? ?
The sheik smiled and murmured : `` That is precisely correct '' .
The Egyptians are noted for elusiveness of language .
When Dag Hammarskjold was negotiating the Middle East peace after Israel's 1956 invasion of Egypt , he soon found himself speaking the mysterious phrases of Cairo , a language as anarchic as Casey Stengel's .
The reports of President Nasser's pledges which Hammarskjold was relaying from Cairo to Washington became increasingly incomprehensible to other diplomats , including the Israeli Foreign Minister , Mrs. Golda Meir .
Finally he reported that Nasser was ready to make a concrete commitment in return for Israeli concessions .
The deep water is used by many people , but it is always clean , for the washing is done outside .
I know now why our Japanese friends were surprised when they walked into our bathroom .
Of course , most toilets are Eastern style -- at floor level -- but even when they are raised to chair height , they are actually outside toilets -- inside .
