In Ruth's day -- and until this year -- the schedule was 154 games .
Baseball commissioner Ford Frick has ruled that Ruth's record will remain official unless it is broken in 154 games .
)
`` Even on the basis of 154 games , this is the ideal situation '' , insists Hank Greenberg , now vice-president of the Chicago White Sox .
`` It has to be easier with two of them .
How can you walk Maris to get to Mantle '' ? ?
Roommates :
Neither Mantle nor Maris , understandably , will predict 60 home runs for himself .
Although both concede they would like to hit 60 , they stick primarily to the baseball player's standard quote : `` The important thing is to win the pennant '' .
But one thing is for certain : There is no dissension between Mantle , the American League's Most Valuable Player in 1956 and 1957 , and Maris , the MVP in 1960 .
Each enjoys seeing the other hit home runs ( `` I hope Roger hits 80 '' , Mantle says ) , and each enjoys even more seeing himself hit home runs ( `` and I hope I hit 81 '' ) .
The sluggers get along so well in fact , that with their families at home for the summer ( Mantle's in Dallas , Maris's in Kansas City ) , they are rooming together .
Mantle , Maris , and Bob Cerv , a utility outfielder , share an apartment in Jamaica , Long Island , not far from New York International Airport .
The three pay $251 a month for four rooms ( kitchen , dining room , living room , and bedroom ) , with air-conditioning and new modern furniture .
Mantle and Cerv use the twin beds in the bedroom ; ;
Maris sleeps on a green studio couch in the living room .
They divide up the household chores : Cerv does most of the cooking ( breakfast and sandwich snacks , with dinner out ) , Mantle supplies the transportation ( a white 1961 Oldsmobile convertible ) , and Maris drives the 25-minute course from the apartment house to Yankee Stadium .
Mantle , Maris , and Cerv probably share one major-league record already : Among them , they have fifteen children -- eight for Cerv , four for Mantle , and three for Maris .
As roommates , teammates , and home-run mates , Mantle , 29 , who broke in with the Yankees ten years ago , and Maris , 26 , who came to the Yankees from Kansas City two years ago , have strikingly similar backgrounds .
Both were scholastic stars in football , basketball , and baseball ( Mantle in Commerce , Okla. , Maris in Fargo , N.D. ) ; ;
as halfbacks , both came close to playing football at the University of Oklahoma ( `` Sometimes in the minors '' , Maris recalls , `` I wished I had gone to Oklahoma '' ) .
To an extent , the two even look alike .
Both have blue eyes and short blond hair .
Both are 6 feet tall and weigh between 195 and 200 pounds , but Mantle , incredibly muscular ( he has a 17-1/2-inch neck ) , looks bigger .
With their huge backs and overdeveloped shoulders , both must have their clothes made to order .
Maris purchases $100 suits from Simpson's in New York .
Mantle , more concerned with dress , buys his suits four at a time at Neiman-Marcus in Dallas and pays as much as $250 each .
Light reading :
Neither Mantle nor Maris need fear being classified an intellectual , but lately Mantle has shown unusual devotion to an intellectual opus , Henry Miller's `` Tropic of Cancer '' .
Mantle so appreciated Miller's delicate literary style that he broadened teammates' minds by reading sensitive passages aloud during road trips .
Mantle is not normally given to public speaking -- or , for that matter , to private speaking .
`` What do you and Mickey talk about at home '' ? ?
A reporter asked Maris recently .
`` To tell you the truth '' , Maris said , `` Mickey don't talk much '' .
This is no surprising trait for a ballplayer .
What is surprising and pleasant is that Mantle and Maris , under constant pressure from writers and photographers , are trying to be cooperative .
Of the two , Mantle is by nature the less outgoing , Maris the more outspoken .
But last week , when a reporter was standing near Mantle's locker , Mickey walked up and volunteered an anecdote .
`` See that kid '' ? ?
He said , pointing to a dark-haired 11-year-old boy .
`` That's ( Yogi ) Berra's .
I'll never forget one time I struck out three times , dropped a fly ball , and we lost the game .
I came back , sitting by my locker , feeling real low , and the kid walks over to me , looks up , and says : ' You stunk ' '' .
Maris , in talking to reporters , tries to answer all questions candidly and fully , but on rare occasions , he shuns newsmen .
`` When I've made a dumb play '' , he says , `` I don't want to talk to anyone .
I'm angry '' .
By his own confession , Maris is an angry young man .
Benched at Tulsa in 1955 , he told manager Dutch Meyer : `` I can't play for you .
Send me where I can play '' .
( Meyer sent him to Reading , Pa. .
) Benched at Indianapolis in 1956 , he told manager Kerby Farrell : `` I'm not learning anything on the bench .
Play me '' .
( Farrell did -- and Maris led the team to victory in the Little World Series .
) `` That's the way I am '' , he says .
`` I tell people what I think .
If you're a good ballplayer , you've got to get mad .
Give me a team of nine angry men and I'll give you a team of nine gentlemen and we'll beat you nine out of ten times '' .
Idols' idols :
One good indication of the two men's personalities is the way they reacted to meeting their own heroes .
Maris's was Ted Williams .
`` When I was a kid '' , Maris told a sportswriter last week , `` I used to follow Williams every day in the box score , just to see whether he got a hit or not '' .
`` When you came up to the majors , did you seek out Williams for advice '' ? ?
`` Are you kidding '' ? ?
Said Maris .
`` You're afraid to talk to a guy you idolize '' .
Mantle's hero was Joe DiMaggio .
`` When Mickey went to the Yankees '' , says Mark Freeman , an ex-Yankee pitcher who sells mutual funds in Denver , `` DiMaggio still was playing and every day Mickey would go by his locker , just aching for some word of encouragement from this great man , this hero of his .
But DiMaggio never said a word .
It crushed Mickey .
He told me he vowed right then that if he ever got to be a star , this never would be said of him '' .
Mantle has kept the vow .
Among all the Yankees , he is the veteran most friendly to rookies .
Neither Mantle nor Maris is totally devoted to baseball above all else .
If laying ties on a railroad track , which he once did for $1 an hour , paid more than playing right field for the Yankees , Maris would lay ties on a railroad track .
If working in a zinc mine , which he once did for 87-1/2 cents an hour , paid more than playing center field for the Yankees , Mantle would work in a zinc mine .
But since railroading and mining are not the highest paid arts , Mantle and Maris concentrate on baseball .
They try to play baseball the best they can .
Each is a complete ballplayer .
Mantle , beyond any question , can do more things well .
( `` One of the reasons they get along fine '' , says a sportswriter who is friendly with the two men , `` is that both realize Mantle is head-and-shoulders above Maris '' .
) Hitting , Mantle has an immediate advantage because he bats both left-handed and right-handed , Maris only left-handed .
They both possess near classic stances , dug in firmly , arms high , set for fierce swings .
Mantle is considerably better hitting for average (
, fourth in the league , to
for Maris so far this year ) .
Both are good bunters : Maris once beat out eighteen of nineteen in the minor leagues ; ;
Mantle is a master at dragging a bunt toward first base .
Both have brilliant speed : Mantle was timed from home plate ( batting left-handed ) to first base in 3.1 seconds , faster than any other major leaguer ; ;
Maris ran the 100-yard dash in ten seconds in high school and once won a race against Luis Aparicio , the swift , base-stealing shortstop of the White Sox .
Both are good , daring fielders : Mantle covers more ground ; ;
Maris's throwing arm is stronger .
Yet with all their skills , the appeal of Mantle and Maris in 1961 comes down to one basic : The home run .
With this ultimate weapon , the two Yankees may have saved baseball from its dullest season .
( American League expansion created , inevitably , weaker teams .
Only two teams in each league ( the Yankees and Detroit , the Dodgers and Cincinnati ) are battling for first place .
Appropriately , the emphasis on the home run , at a peak this year , came into being at baseball's lowest moment .
In 1920 , as the startling news that the 1919 White Sox had conspired to lose the World Series leaked out , fans grew disillusioned and disinterested in baseball .
Something was needed to revive interest ; ;
the something was the home run .
Into Washington on President-elect John F. Kennedy's Convair , the Caroline , winged Actor-Crooner Frank Sinatra and his close Hollywood pal , Cinemactor Peter Lawford , Jack Kennedy's brother-in-law .
Also included in the entourage : a dog in a black sweater , Frankie and Peter had an urgent mission : to stage a mammoth Inauguration Eve entertainment gala in the capital's National Guard Armory .
Frankie was fairly glutted with ideas , as he had hinted upon his arrival : `` It's really tremendous when you think Ella Fitzgerald is coming from Australia .
I could talk to you for three hours and still not be able to give you all of our plans '' ! !
As the plans were laid , some several thousand fat cats were to be ensconced in the armory's $100 seats and in 68 ringside boxes priced at $10,000 each .
The biggest single act would doubtless be staged by Frankie himself : his Inaugural wardrobe had been designed by Hollywood Couturier Don Loper , who regularly makes up ladies' ensembles .
Soon after Loper leaked the news that Frankie had ordered `` two of everything '' just `` in case he spills anything '' , Frankie got so mad at the chic designer that he vowed he would not wear a stitch of Loper clothing .
A year after he was catapulted over nine officers senior to him and made commandant of the Marine Corps , General David M. Shoup delivered a peppery annual report in the form of a `` happy , warless New Year '' greeting to his Pentagon staff .
Said Leatherneck Shoup : `` A year ago I took the grips of the plow in my hands .
After pushing an accumulation of vines and weeds from the moldboard , I lifted the lines from the dust and found hitched to that plow the finest team I ever held a rein on .
Little geeing and hawing have been necessary '' .
But Shoup also gave the Corps a tilling in spots .
Speaking of `` pride '' , he deplored the noncommissioned officer `` whose uniform looks like it belonged to someone who retired in 1940 ; ;
the officer with the yellow socks or the bay window .
A few of these people are still around '' .
Old and new briefly crossed paths in the U.S. Senate , then went their respective ways .
At a reception for new members of Congress , Oregon Democrat Maurine Neuberger , taking the Senate seat held by her husband Richard until his death last March , got a brotherly buss from Democratic Elder Statesman Adlai Stevenson , U.S. Ambassador-designate to the U.N. .
Meanwhile , after 24 years in the Senate , Rhode Island's durable Democrat Theodore Francis Greene -- having walked , swum and cerebrated himself to the hearty age of 93 -- left that august body ( voluntarily , because he could surely have been re-elected had he chosen to run again last November ) , as the oldest man ever to serve in the Senate .
The most famous undergraduate of South Philadelphia High School is a current bobby-sox idol , Dreamboat Cacophonist Fabian ( real name : Fabian Forte ) , 17 , and last week it developed that he will remain an undergraduate for a while .
The principal of the school announced that -- despite the help of private tutors in Hollywood and Philadelphia -- Fabian is a 10-o'clock scholar in English and mathematics .
Lacking his needed credits in those subjects , Fabian will not graduate with his old classmates next week .
South Philadelphia High's principal added that the current delay was caused by the `` pressure '' of a movie that the toneless lad was making .
To Decathlon Man Rafer Johnson ( Time cover , Aug. 29 ) , whose gold medal in last summer's Olympic Games was won as much on gumption as talent , went the A.A.U.'s James E. Sullivan Memorial Trophy as the outstanding U.S. amateur athlete of 1960 .
As the world's top sportsman -- pro or amateur -- Sports Illustrated tapped golf's confident Arnold Palmer ( Time cover , May 2 ) , who staged two cliffhanging rallies to win both the Masters and U.S. Open crowns , went on to win a record $80,738 for the year .
Tooling through Sydney on his way to race in the New Zealand Grand Prix , Britain's balding Ace Driver Stirling Moss , 31 , all but smothered himself in his own exhaust of self-crimination .
`` I'm a slob '' , he announced .
`` My taste is gaudy .
I'm useless for anything but racing cars .
I'm ruddy lazy , and I'm getting on in years .
It gets so frustrating , but then again I don't know what I could do if I gave up racing '' .
Has Moss no stirling virtues ? ?
`` I appreciate beauty '' .
One of Nikita Khrushchev's most enthusiastic eulogizers , the U.S.S.R.'s daily Izvestia , enterprisingly interviewed Red-prone Comedian Charlie Chaplin at his Swiss villa , where he has been in self-exile since 1952 .
Chaplin , 71 , who met K. when the Soviet boss visited England in 1956 , confided that he hopes to visit Russia some time this summer because `` I have marveled at your grandiose experiment and I believe in your future '' .
Then Charlie spooned out some quick impressions of the Nikita he had glimpsed : `` I was captivated by his humor , frankness and good nature and by his kind , strong and somewhat sly face '' .
G. David Thompson is one of those names known to the stewards of transatlantic jetliners and to doormen in Europe's best hotels , but he is somewhat of an enigma to most people in his own home town of Pittsburgh .
There the name vaguely connotes new-rich wealth , a reputation for eccentricity , and an ardor for collecting art .
Last week , in the German city of Dusseldorf , G. David Thompson was making headlines that could well give Pittsburgh pause .
On display were 343 first-class paintings and sculptures from his fabled collection -- and every single one of them was up for sale .
Like Philadelphia's late Dr. Albert C. Barnes who kept his own great collection closed to the general public ( Time , Jan. 2 ) , Thompson , at 61 , is something of a legend in his own lifetime .
He made his fortune during World War 2 , when he took over a number of dying steel plants and kept them alive until the boom .
Even before he hit big money , he had begun buying modern paintings .
He gave the impression of never having read a word about art , but there was no doubt that he had an eye for the best .
He was able to smell a bargain -- and a masterpiece -- a continent away , and the Museum of Modern Art's Alfred Barr said of him : `` I have never mentioned a new artist that Thompson didn't know about '' .
He might barge into a gallery , start haggling over prices without so much as a word of greeting .
He could be lavishly generous with friends , cab drivers and bellboys , but with dealers he was tough .
He bought up Cezannes , Braques , Matisses , Legers , a splendid Picasso series , more than 70 Giacometti sculptures .
He gathered one of the biggest collections of Paul Klees in the world .
All these he hung in his burglarproof home called Stone's Throw , outside Pittsburgh , and only people he liked and trusted ever got to see them .
Two years ago Thompson offered his collection to the city .
But he insisted that it be housed in a special museum .
Pittsburgh turned him down , just as Pittsburgh society had been snubbing him for years .
He went then to a 40-year-old Basel art dealer named Ernst Beyeler , with whom he had long been trading pictures .
Last year Beyeler arranged to sell $1,500,000 worth of Klees to the state of North Rhine-Westphalia , which will house them in a museum that is yet to be built .
Last week most of the other prizes , once offered to Pittsburgh , went on the block .
At the opening of the Dusseldorf show , Thompson himself scarcely glanced at the treasures that he was seeing together for the last time .
In fact he seemed delighted to get rid of them .
Some observers speculated that this might be his revenge on his home town .
Thompson himself said : `` I want to enjoy once more the pleasure of bare walls waiting for new pictures '' .
Break in Georgia
The University of Georgia has long claimed that it does not discriminate against any applicant on the basis of race or color .
But in all its 175 years , not a single Negro student has entered its classrooms .
Last week Federal District Judge William A. Bootle ordered the university to admit immediately a `` qualified '' Negro boy and girl .
Their entry will crack the total segregation of all public education , from kindergarten through graduate school , in Georgia -- and in Alabama , Mississippi and South Carolina as well .
For 18 months , Hamilton Holmes , 19 , and Charlayne Hunter , 18 , had tried to get into the university .
They graduated together from Atlanta's Turner High School , where Valedictorian Holmes was first in the class and Charlayne third .
The university rejected them on a variety of pretexts , but was careful never to mention the color of their skins .
Holmes went to Atlanta's Morehouse ( Negro ) College , where he is a B student and star halfback .
Charlayne studied journalism at Detroit's Wayne State University .
Last fall , after they took their hopes for entering Georgia to court , Judge Bootle ordered them to apply again .
Charlayne was `` tentatively '' admitted for next fall , after state investigators questioned her white roommate at Wayne State .
But Holmes was rejected again `` on the basis of his record and interview '' .
The evidence in court was testimony about the interview , which for Holmes lasted an hour , although at least one white student at Georgia got through this ritual by a simple phone conversation .
Holmes was asked if he had ever visited a house of prostitution , or a `` beatnik parlor or teahouse '' .
No , said he , but officials still called him `` evasive '' .
They also said he lied in saying that he had never been `` arrested '' .
Their reason : Holmes once paid a $20 speeding fine , had his license suspended .
Negro lawyers dug into the records of 300 white students , found that many were hardly interviewed at all -- and few had academic records as good as Hamilton Holmes .
The real reason for his rejection , they argued , is the fact that Georgia law automatically cuts off funds for any desegregated school .
Judge Bootle's decision : `` The two plaintiffs are qualified for admission to said university and would already have been admitted had it not been for their race and color '' .
The state will appeal -- but few think it will actually try to close the university .
`` Surprised and pleased '' , Students Holmes and Hunter may enter the University of Georgia this week .
Catch for Chicago
When the University of Chicago's Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton submitted his resignation last March , a mighty talent hunt gripped the Midway .
Out went letters to 60,000 old grads , asking for suggestions .
Such academic statesmen as James B. Conant were consulted .
Two committees pondered 375 possible Kimpton successors , including Adlai Stevenson , Richard Nixon , and Harvard's Dean McGeorge Bundy .
The debate led to a decision that Chicago needed neither a big name nor an experienced academic administrator , but rather , as Trustee Chairman Glen A. Lloyd put it , `` a top scholar in his own right '' -- a bright light to lure other top scholars to Chicago .
Last week Chicago happily found its top scholar in Caltech's acting dean of the faculty : dynamic Geneticist George Wells Beadle , 57 , who shared the 1958 Nobel Prize in medicine and physiology for discovering how genes affect heredity by controlling cell chemistry ( Time , Cover , July 14 , 1958 ) .
It fell to Chancellor Kimpton , now a Standard Oil ( Indiana ) executive , to spend his nine-year reign tidying up Chicago after the 21-year typhoon of Idealist Robert Maynard Hutchins .
He threw out some of Hutchins' more wildly experimental courses , raised sagging undergraduate enrollment to 2,100 , nearly doubled endowment to $139.3 million .
But though Kimpton put Chicago in what he felt was working order , some old grads feel that it still needs the kind of lively teachers who filled it in the heady Hutchins era .
At Caltech , Geneticist Beadle has stuck close to his research as head of the school's famous biology division since 1946 .
But he has shown a sixth-sense ability to spot , recruit and excite able researchers , and has developed unexpected talents in fund raising and speech-making .
Beadle is even that rare scientist who takes an interest in money matters ; ;
he avidly reads the Wall Street Journal , and took delight in driving a $250 model A Ford for 22 years , then selling it for $300 .
A philosopher may point out that the troubles of the Congo began with the old Adam and consequently will never end .
But a historian might put his finger on a specific man and date , and hold out the hope that the troubles will sometime pass away .
The man was King Leopold 2 , of the Belgians , who in 1885 concluded that he had better grab a colony while the grabbing was still good .
By force , he took under his protection , or stole , 900,000 square miles of wilderness in Central Africa .
This is an area nearly as large as Western Europe ; ;
and it was filled then as now by quarreling tribes with no political or historical unity .
Its boundaries had nothing to do with geography or ethnic groupings ; ;
they were determined by the points at which Leopold's explorers and gunmen got tired of walking .
The population of the Congo is 13.5 million , divided into at least seven major `` culture clusters '' and innumerable tribes speaking 400 separate dialects .
The religions of the people include Christianity , Mohammedanism , paganism , ancestor worship and animism .
The climate ranges from the steamily equatorial to the temperate .
The hospitals contain patients trampled by elephants or run over by sports cars .
To make one nation out of these disparities would be a problem large enough in any case ; ;
it has been made far more difficult by what the Belgians have done , or failed to do , in the Congo since 1885 .
At first the Belgian royal family administered the Congo as its own private property .
But by 1908 its record of brutality had touched the national conscience .
The Belgian government itself took over administration , commencing a program of paternalism unmatched in the history of colonialism .
One definition of paternalism is `` The principle or practice , on the part of a government , of managing the affairs of a country in the manner of a father dealing with his children '' .
The honor of the Belgians in this matter is not to be questioned -- only their judgment .
Ordinarily a father permits his children to grow up in due time -- but when the colony received independence in 1960 the Congolese child , if one imagines him to have been born in 1908 , was 52 and had until then been treated as an infant .
The Belgians were interested primarily in the economic development of the Congo , which is rich in copper , tin , cobalt , manganese , zinc , and uranium , and cotton and palm oil .
The colony was administered from Brussels , with neither the Congolese nor the resident Belgians having any vote .
The beneficiaries of this administration were a number of huge cartels in which both individuals and the Belgian government itself held stock .
In Inside Africa , John Gunther describes one of these , the Societe Generale , as `` the kind of colossus that might be envisaged if , let us say , the House of Morgan , Anaconda Copper , the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York , the Pennsylvania Railroad , and various companies producing agricultural products were lumped together , with the United States government as a heavy partner '' .
Had they been truly ruthless , the Belgians might have exploited the Congolese without compassion .
But they were not .
They provided a social security system which covered all their African employes ; ;
their program of mass medical care was doubtless the best on the continent ; ;
they put much effort into public housing .
They also instituted a ration system under which all employers in the Congo were required to furnish their employes with clothing and adequate food .
But instead of delivering the ration -- either in actual commodities or in cash -- at intervals of perhaps two weeks or a month , the Belgians felt obliged to dole it out more often .
Would not the children , if they received all their food on the first day of the month , eat it up immediately , and later go hungry ? ?
The Belgians also placed great emphasis on education .
During the 1950s there were as many as 25,000 schools in the Congo .
But almost all the schools were primary .
The average Congolese can do little more than puzzle out the meaning of `` la chatte '' and `` le chien '' and write his name .
Some schools were technical -- the Belgians needed carpenters and mechanics to help exploit the land , and trained many .
But they did not believe in widespread secondary education , much less in college .
It was their conviction that the people should be `` brought up together '' , a grade at a time , until in some indefinite future some might be ready to tackle history , economics and political science .
Indeed , the Belgians discouraged higher education , fearing the creation of a native intellectual elite which might cause unrest .
When the Congo received its independence in 1960 there were , among its 13.5 million people , exactly 14 university graduates .
Why did the Belgians grant independence to a colony so manifestly unprepared to accept it ? ?
In one large oversimplification , it might be said that the Belgians felt , far too late , the gale of nationalism sweeping Africa .
They lacked time to prepare the Congo , as the British and French had prepared their colonies .
The Congolese were clamoring for their independence , even though most were unsure what it meant ; ;
and in Brussels , street crowds shouted , `` Pas une goutte de sang ! !
'' ( Not one drop of blood ! !
) .
The Belgians would not fight for the privilege of being the detested pedagogue ; ;
rather than teach where teaching was not wanted , they would wash their hands of the mess .
It is hard to blame them for this .
Yet there were other motivations and actions which the Belgians took after independence for which history may not find them guiltless .
As the time for independence approached there were in the Congo no fewer than 120 political parties , or approximately eight for each university graduate .
There were four principal ones .
First , there were those Congolese ( among them Joseph Kasavubu ) who favored splitting the country into small independent states , Balkanizing it .
Second , there were those ( Moise Tshombe ) who favored near-Balkanization , a loose federalism having a central government of limited authority , with much power residing in the states .
Third , there were those ( notably Patrice Lumumba ) who favored a unified Congo with a very strong central government .
And fourth , there were moderates who were in no hurry for independence and wished to wait until the Congo grew up .
However , the positions of all parties and leaders were constantly shifting .
A final factor which contributed greatly to the fragmentation of the Congo , immediately after independence , was the provincial structure that had been established by the Belgians for convenience in administration .
They had divided the Congo into six provinces -- Leopoldville , Kasai , Kivu , Katanga , Equator and Eastern -- unfortunately with little regard for ethnic groupings .
Thus some provinces contained tribes which detested each other , and to them independence meant an opportunity for war .
The Belgian Congo was granted its independence with what seemed a workable Western-style form of government : there were to be a president and a premier , and a bicameral legislature elected by universal suffrage in the provinces .
Well-wishers around the world hoped that the Congo would quickly assume a respectable position in the society of nations .
If internal frictions arose , they could be handled by the 25,000-man Congolese army , the Force Publique , which had been trained and was still officered by white Belgians .
The president , Joseph Kasavubu , seemed an able administrator and the premier , Patrice Lumumba , a reasonable man .
Twenty-four hours after independence the wild tribesmen commenced fighting each other .
Presently the well-armed members of the Force Publique -- many of them drawn from savage and even cannibalistic tribes , erupted in mutiny , rioting , raping and looting .
Terror engulfed the thousands of Belgian civilians who had remained in the country .
The Belgian government decided to act , and on July 10 dispatched paratroops to the Congo .
On July 11 the head of the mineral-rich province of Katanga , Moise Tshombe , announced that his province had seceded from the country .
Confusion became chaos ; ;
each succeeding day brought new acts of violence .
Lumumba and Kasavubu blamed it all on the military intervention by the Belgians , and appealed to the United Nations to send troops to oust them .
On July 14 the Security Council -- with France and Great Britain abstaining -- voted the resolution which drew the U.N. into the Congo .
Vague in wording , it called for withdrawal of Belgian troops and authorized the Secretary-General `` to take the necessary steps to provide the ( Congolese ) Government with such military assistance as may be necessary , until , through the efforts of the Congolese Government with the technical assistance of the United Nations , the national security forces may be able , in the opinion of the Government , to meet fully their tasks .
''
Secretary-General Hammarskjold decided that it would be preferable if the U.N. troops sent into the Congo were to come from African , or at least nonwhite , nations -- certainly not from the U.S. , Russia , Great Britain or France .
He quickly called on Ghana , Tunisia , Morocco , Guinea and Mali , which dispatched troops within hours .
Ultimately the U.N. army in the Congo reached a top strength of 19,000 , including about 5,000 from India and a few soldiers from Eire and Sweden , who were the only whites .
It took the U.N. three months to bring a modest form of order to the Congo .
The Belgians were reluctant to withdraw their troops and often obstructed U.N. efforts .
The wildly erratic nature of Patrice Lumumba caused constant problems -- he frequently announced that he wanted the U.N. to get out of the Congo along with the Belgians , and appealed to Russia for help .
( However , there is little evidence that the late Lumumba was a Communist .
Before appealing to the U.N. or to Russia , he first appealed to the U.S. for military help , and was rejected .
) Lumumba further complicated the U.N.'s mission by initiating small `` wars '' with the secessionist province of Katanga and with South Kasai which , under Albert Kalonji , wanted to secede as well .
Meanwhile Russia took every opportunity to meddle in the Congo , sending Lumumba equipment for his `` wars '' , dispatching `` technicians '' and even threatening , on occasion , to intervene openly .
But by the end of the three-month period , in October 1960 , something approaching calm settled on the Congo .
President Kasavubu became exasperated with Lumumba and fired him .
Lumumba fired Kasavubu .
Control of the government -- such control as there was and such government as there was -- passed into the hands of Joseph Mobutu , chief of staff of the Congolese army .
Mobutu promptly flung out the Russians , who have not since played any significant part on the local scene , although they have redoubled their obstructionist efforts at U.N. headquarters in New York .
The Belgians -- at least officially -- departed from the Congo as well , withdrawing all of their uniformed troops .
But they left behind them large numbers of officers , variously called `` volunteers '' or `` mercenaries '' , who now staff the army of Moise Tshombe in Katanga , the seceded province which , according to Tshombe , holds 65% of the mineral wealth of the entire country .
From October 1960 to February 1961 , the U.N. forces in the Congo took little action .
There was no directive for it -- the Security Council's resolution had not mentioned political matters , and in any case the United Nations by the terms of its charter may not interfere in the political affairs of any nation , whether to unify it , federalize it or Balkanize it .
During the five-month lull , civil war smoldered and flickered throughout the Congo .
In February the murder of Patrice Lumumba , who had been kidnaped into Katanga and executed on order of Tshombe , again stirred the U.N. to action .
On Feb. 21 the council passed another resolution urging the taking of `` all appropriate measures to prevent the occurrence of civil war in the Congo , including the use of force , if necessary , in the last resort '' .
Although the resolution might have been far more specific , it was considerably tougher than the earlier one .
It also urged that the U.N. eject , and prevent the return of , all Belgian and other foreign military and political advisers ; ;
ordered an investigation of Lumumba's death ; ;
urged the reconvention of the Congolese Parliament and the reorganization of the army .
The presidency : talking and listening
Though President John F. Kennedy was primarily concerned with the crucial problems of Berlin and disarmament adviser McCloy's unexpected report from Khrushchev , his new enthusiasm and reliance on personal diplomacy involved him in other key problems of U.S. foreign policy last week .
High up on the President's priority list was the thorny question of Bizerte .
On this issue , the President received a detailed report from his U.N. Ambassador Adlai Stevenson , who had just returned from Paris , and Mr. Kennedy asked Stevenson to search for a face-saving way -- for both Paris and Tunis -- out of the imbroglio .
Ideally , the President would like the French to agree on a `` status quo ante '' on Bizerte , and accept a new timetable for withdrawing their forces from the Mediterranean base .
To continue their important conversations about the Tunisian issue and the whole range of other problems , Mr. Kennedy invited Stevenson to Cape Cod for the weekend .
The President also discussed the Bizerte deadlock with the No. 2 man in the Tunisian Government , Defense Minister Bahi Ladgham , who flew to Washington last week to seek U.S. support .
The conversation apparently convinced Mr. Kennedy that the positions of France and Tunisia were not irreconcilable .
Through Ladgham , Mr. Kennedy sent a message along those lines to Tunisian President Habib Bourguiba ; ;
and one U.S. official said : `` The key question now is which side picks up the phone first '' .
On the Latin American front , the President held talks with Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon before sending him to Uruguay and the Inter-American Economic and Social Council ( which the President himself had originally hoped to attend ) .
Main purpose of the meeting : To discuss President Kennedy's Alliance for Progress .
And that was not all .
In conferences with Nationalist China's dapper , diminutive Vice President Chen Cheng , Mr. Kennedy assured Chiang Kai-shek's emissary that the U.S. is as firmly opposed as ever to the admission of Red China to the United Nations .
Chen was equally adamant in his opposition to the admission of Outer Mongolia ; ;
however the President , who would like to woo the former Chinese province away from both Peking and Moscow , would promise Chen nothing more than an abstention by the U.S. if Outer Mongolia's admission comes to a vote .
The President also conferred with emissaries from Guatemala and Nepal who are seeking more foreign aid .
To Africa , he sent his most trusted adviser , his brother , Attorney General Robert Kennedy , on a good-will mission to the Ivory Coast .
All week long the President clearly was playing a larger personal role in foreign affairs ; ;
in effect , he was practicing what he preached in his Berlin message two weeks ago when he declared : `` We shall always be prepared to discuss international problems with any and all nations that are willing to talk , and listen , with reason '' .
Crime : ' skyjacked '
From International Airport in Los Angeles to International Airport in Houston , as the great four-jet Boeing 707 flies , is a routine five hours and 25 minutes , including stopovers at Phoenix , El Paso , and San Antonio .
When Continental Airlines night-coach Flight 54 took off at 11:30 one night last week , there was no reason to think it would take any longer .
The plane put down on schedule at 1:35 a.m. in Phoenix .
Thirty-one minutes later , when it took off for El Paso , hardly anyone of the crew of six or the 65 other passengers paid any attention to the man and teen-age boy who had come aboard .
At 3:57 a.m. , with the plane about twenty minutes out of El Paso , passenger Robert Berry , a San Antonio advertising man , glanced up and saw the man and boy , accompanied by a stewardess , walking up the aisle toward the cockpit .
`` The man was bent over with his hand on his stomach '' , Berry said .
`` I figured he was sick '' .
John Salvador , a farmer from Palm Desert , Calif. , was sitting up front and could see through the door as the trio entered the cockpit .
`` The kid had a automatic , like they issue in the Army '' , he said .
`` The other fellow had a '' .
Salvador saw the youth hold his against the head of stewardess Lois Carnegey ; ;
the man put his at the head of Capt. Byron D. Rickards .
To Rickards , a 52-year-old veteran 30 years in the air , it was an old story : His plane was being hijacked in mid-flight again much as it had happened in 1930 , when Peruvian rebels made him land a Ford tri-motor at Arequipa .
But last week's pirates , like the Cuban-American who recently hijacked an Eastern Airlines Electra ( Newsweek , Aug. 7 ) , wanted to go to Havana .
Stalling :
`` Tell your company there are four of us here with guns '' , the elder man told Rickards .
The pilot radioed El Paso International Airport with just that message .
But , he told the `` skyjackers '' , the 707 didn't carry enough fuel to reach Havana ; ;
they would have to refuel at El Paso .
Most passengers didn't know what had happened until they got on the ground .
Jerry McCauley of Sacramento , Calif. , one of some twenty Air Force recruits on board , awoke from a nap in confusion .
`` The old man came from the front of the plane and said he wanted four volunteers to go to Cuba '' , McCauley said , `` and like a nut I raised my hand .
I thought he was the Air Force recruiter '' .
What the man wanted was four persons to volunteer as hostages , along with the crew .
They chose four : Jack Casey , who works for Continental Airlines in Houston ; ;
Fred Mullen from Mercer Island , Wash. ; ;
Pfc. Truman Cleveland of St. Augustine .
Fla. , and Leonard Gilman , a former college boxer and veteran of the U.S. Immigration Service Border Patrol .
Everybody else was allowed to file off the plane after it touched down at El Paso at 4:18 a.m. .
They found a large welcoming group -- El Paso policemen , Border Patrol , sheriff's deputies , and FBI men , who surged around the plane with rifles and submachine guns .
Other FBI men , talking with the pilot from the tower , conspired with him to delay the proposed flight to Havana .
The ground crew , which ordinarily fuels a 707 in twenty minutes , took fully three hours .
Still more time was consumed while the pilot , at the radioed suggestion of Continental president Robert Six , tried to persuade the armed pair to swap the Boeing jet for a propeller-driven Douglas Aj .
Actually , the officers on the ground had no intention of letting the hijackers get away with any kind of an airplane ; ;
they had orders to that effect straight from President Kennedy , who thought at first , as did most others , that it was four followers of Cuba's Fidel Castro who had taken over the 707 .
Mr. Kennedy had been informed early in the day of the attempt to steal the plane , kept in touch throughout by telephone .
At one time , while still under the impression that he was dealing with a Cuban plot , the President talked about invoking a total embargo on trade with Cuba .
As the morning wore on and a blazing West Texas sun wiped the shadows off the Franklin Mountains , police got close enough to the plane to pry into the baggage compartment .
From the luggage , they learned that the two air pirates , far from being Cubans , were native Americans , subsequently identified as Leon Bearden , 50-year-old ex-convict from Coolidge , Ariz. , and his son , Cody , 16 , a high-school junior .
Tension
The heat and strain began to tell on the Beardens .
The father , by accident or perhaps to show , as he said , `` we mean business '' , took the and fired a slug between the legs of Second Officer Norman Simmons .
At 7:30 a.m. , more than three hours after landing , the Beardens gave an ultimatum :
Take off or see the hostages killed .
The tower cleared the plane for take-off at 8 a.m. , and Captain Rickards began taxiing toward the runway .
Several police cars , loaded with armed officers , raced alongside , blazing away at the tires of the big jet .
The slugs flattened ten tires and silenced one of the inboard engines ; ;
the plane slowed to a halt .
Ambulances , baggage trucks , and cars surrounded it .
The day wore on .
At 12:50 p.m. a ramp was rolled up to the plane .
A few minutes later , FBI agent Francis Crosby , talking fast , eased up the ramp to the plane , unarmed .
While Crosby distracted the Beardens , stewardesses Carnegey and Toni Besset dropped out of a rear door .
So did hostages Casey , Cleveland , and Mullen .
That left only the four crew members , Crosby , and Border Patrolman Gilman , all unarmed , with the Beardens .
The elder Bearden had one pistol in his hand , the other in a hip pocket .
Gilman started talking to him until he saw his chance .
He caught officer Simmons' eye , nodded toward young Bearden , and -- `` I swung my right as hard as I could .
Simmons and Crosby jumped the boy and it was all over '' .
Frog-marched off the airplane at 1:48 p.m. , the Beardens were held in bail of $100,000 each on charges of kidnapping and transporting a stolen plane across state lines .
( Bearden reportedly hoped to peddle the plane to Castro , and live high in Cuba .
) Back home in Coolidge , Ariz. , his 36-year-old wife , Mary , said : `` I thought they were going to Phoenix to look for jobs '' .
Congress : more muscle
Taking precedence over all other legislation on Capitol Hill last week was the military strength of the nation .
The Senate put other business aside as it moved with unaccustomed speed and unanimity to pass -- 85 to 0 -- the largest peacetime defense budget in U.S. history .
With the money all but in hand , however , the Administration indicated that , instead of the 225,000 more men in uniform that President Kennedy had requested , the armed forces would be increased by only 160,000 .
The `` hold-back '' , as Pentagon mutterers labeled it , apparently was a temporary expedient intended to insure that the army services are built up gradually and , thus , the new funds spent prudently .
In all , the Senate signed a check for $46.7 billion , which not only included the extra $3.5 billion requested the week before by President Kennedy , but tacked on $754 million more than the President had asked for .
( The Senate , on its own , decided to provide additional B-52 and other long-range bombers for the Strategic Air Command .
) The House , which had passed its smaller appropriation before the President's urgent call for more , was expected to go along with the increased defense budget in short order .
In other areas , Congressional action last week included :
The Senate ( by voice vote ) and the House ( by 224-170 ) passed and sent to the White House the compromise farm bill which the President is expected to sign , not too unhappily .
The Senate also voted $5.2 billion to finance the government's health , welfare , and labor activities .
Debate on the all-important foreign-aid bill , with its controversial long-range proposals , had just begun on the Senate floor at the weekend .
White House legislative aides were still confident the bill would pass intact .
Food : stew a la Mulligatawny
Most members of the U.S. Senate , because they are human , like to eat as high on the hog as they can .
But , because they are politicians , they like to talk as poor-mouth as the lowliest voter .
As a result , ever since 1851 when the Senate restaurant opened in the new wing of the Capitol Building , the senators have never ceased to grumble about the food -- even while they opposed every move that might improve it .
Over the years , enlivened chiefly by disputes about the relative merits of Maine and Idaho potatoes , the menu has pursued its drab all-American course .
Individual senators , with an eye to the voters back home , occasionally introduced smelts from Michigan , soft-shell crabs from Maryland , oysters from Washington , grapefruit from Florida .
But plain old bean soup , served daily since the turn of the century ( at the insistence of the late Sen. Fred Dubois of Idaho ) , made clear to the citizenry that the Senate's stomach was in the right place .
In a daring stroke , the Senate ventured forth last week into the world of haute cuisine and hired a $10,000-per-year French-born maitre d'hotel .
Holders of toll-road bonds are finding improvements in monthly reports on operation of the turnpikes .
Long-term trend of traffic on these roads seems clearly upward .
Higher toll rates also are helping boost revenues .
Result is a better prospect for a full payoff by bonds that once were regarded as highly speculative .
Things are looking up these days for many of the State turnpikes on which investors depend for income from their toll-road bonds .
Traffic on nearly all the turnpikes has been growing .
That added traffic means rising streams of dimes and quarters at toll gates .
As a result of the new outlook for turnpikes , investors who bought toll-road bonds when these securities ranked as outright speculations are now finding new hope for their investments .
Another result is that buyers are tending to bid up the prices of these tax-exempt bonds .
Other tax-exempt bonds of State and local governments hit a price peak on February 21 , according to Standard & Poor's average .
On balance , prices of those bonds have slipped a bit since then .
However , in the same three-month period , toll-road bonds , as a group , have bucked this trend .
On these bonds , price rises since February 21 easily outnumber price declines .
Tax-free returns .
Investors , however , still see an element of more-than-ordinary risk in the toll-road bonds .
You find the evidence of that in the chart on this page .
Many of the toll-road bonds still are selling at prices that offer the prospect of an annual yield of 4 per cent , or very close to that .
And this is true in the case of some turnpikes on which revenues have risen close to , or beyond , the point at which the roads start to pay all operating costs plus annual interest on the bonds .
That 4 per cent yield is well below the return to be had on good corporation bonds .
It's not much more , in fact , than the return that is offered on U. S. Treasury bonds .
For investors whose income is taxed at high rates , though , a tax-free yield of 4 per cent is high .
It is the equivalent of 8 per cent for an unmarried investor with more than $16,000 of income to be taxed , or for a married couple with more than $32,000 of taxed income .
Swelling traffic .
A new report on the earnings records of toll roads in the most recent 12-month period -- ending in February or March -- shows what is happening .
The report is based on a survey by Blyth & Company , investment bankers .
Nearly all the turnpikes show gains in net revenues during the period .
And there is the bright note : The gains were achieved in the face of temporary traffic lags late in 1960 and early in 1961 as a result of business recession .
Many of the roads also were hit by an unusually severe winter .
Indication : The long-term trend of turnpike traffic is upward .
Look , for example , at the Ohio Turnpike .
Traffic on that road slumped sharply in January and February , as compared with those same months in 1960 .
Then March brought an 18 per cent rise in net revenues -- after operating costs .
As a result , the road's net revenues in the 12 months ending March 31 were 186 per cent of the annual interest payments on the turnpike bonds .
That was up from 173 per cent in the preceding 12 months .
That same pattern of earnings shows up on the Massachusetts Turnpike .
Operating revenues were off in the first three months of 1961 , but up for the 12 months ending in March .
Costs were held down , despite a bitter winter .
For the year , the road earned 133 per cent of its interest costs , against 121 per cent in the preceding period .
The road's engineers look for further improvement when the turnpike is extended into Boston .
Slow successes .
Some turnpikes have not been in full operation long enough to prove what they can do .
The 187-mile Illinois State Toll Highway , for example , was not opened over its entire length until December , 1958 .
In the 12 months ended in February , 1960 , the highway earned enough to cover 64 per cent of its interest load -- with the remainder paid out of initial reserves .
In the 12 months ended in February , 1961 , this highway earned 93 per cent of its interest .
That improvement is continuing .
In the first two months of 1961 , earnings of the Illinois highway available for interest payments were up 55 per cent from early 1960 .
Success , for many turnpikes , has come hard .
Traffic frequently has failed to measure up to engineers' rosy estimates .
In these cases , the turnpike managements have had to turn to toll-rate increases , or to costly improvements such as extensions or better connections with other highways .
Many rate increases already have been put into effect .
Higher tolls are planned for July 1 , 1961 , on the Richmond-Petersburg , Va. , Turnpike , and proposals for increased tolls on the Texas Turnpike are under study .
Easier access .
Progress is being made , too , in improving motorists' access to many turnpikes .
The Kansas Turnpike offers an illustration .
Net earnings of that road rose from 62 per cent of interest requirements in calendar 1957 to 86 per cent in the 12 months ended Feb. 28 , 1961 .
Further improvements in earnings of the Kansas Turnpike are expected late in 1961 , with the opening of a new bypass at Wichita , and still later when the turnpike gets downtown connections in both Kansas City , Kans. , and Kansas City , Mo. .
Meanwhile , there appears to be enough money in the road's reserve fund to cover the interest deficiency for eight more years .
For some roads , troubles .
Investors studying the toll-road bonds for opportunities find that not all roads are nearing their goals .
Traffic and revenues on the Chicago Skyway have been a great disappointment to planners and investors alike .
If nothing is done , the prospect is that that road will be in default of interest in 1962 .
West Virginia toll bonds have defaulted in interest for months , and , despite recent improvement in revenues , holders of the bonds are faced with more of the same .
These , however , are exceptions .
The typical picture at this time is one of steady improvement .
It's going to take time for investors to learn how many of the toll-road bonds will pay out in full .
Already , however , several of the turnpikes are earning enough to cover interest requirements by comfortable margins .
Many others are attracting the traffic needed to push revenues up to the break-even point .
A top American official , after a look at Europe's factories , thinks the U.S. is in a `` very serious situation '' competitively .
Commerce Secretary Luther Hodges , accompanied by a member of our staff , on May 10 toured plants of two of Italy's biggest companies -- Fiat , the auto producer , and Olivetti , maker of typewriters and calculating machines .
Our staff man cabled from Turin as follows --
`` Follow Secretary Hodges through the Fiat plant , and you learn this :
`` One , modern equipment -- much of it supplied under the Marshall Plan -- enables Fiat to turn out 2,100 cars a day .
About half of these are exported .
`` Two , wage costs are a fraction of the U.S. costs .
A skilled worker on the assembly line , for example , earns $37 a week .
`` Three , labor troubles are infrequent .
Fiat officials say they have had no strikes for more than six years .
`` Said Secretary Hodges : ' It's a tough combination for the U.S. to face .
`` Olivetti had a special interest for Hodges .
Olivetti took over Underwood , the U.S. typewriter maker , in late 1959 .
Within a year , without reducing wages , Underwood's production costs were cut one third , prices were slashed .
The result has been that exports of Underwood products have doubled .
`` The Olivetti plant near Turin has modern layout , modern machinery .
The firm is design-conscious , sales-conscious , advertising-conscious .
`` Hodges is trying to get more foreign business to go to the U.S. .
The inflow of foreign capital would help the U.S. balance of payments .
`` Hodges predicted : ' I think we will see more foreign firms coming to the U.S. .
There are many places where we can use their vigor and new ideas ' '' .
Foreign competition has become so severe in certain textiles that Washington is exploring new ways of handling competitive imports .
The recently unveiled Kennedy moves to control the international textile market can be significant for American businessmen in many lines .
Important aspects of the Kennedy textile plans are these :
An international conference of the big textile-importing and textile-exporting countries will be called shortly by President Kennedy .
Chief aims of the proposed conference are worth noting .
The U.S. will try to get agreement among the industrialized countries to take more textile imports from the less-developed countries over the years .
Point is that developing countries often build up a textile industry first , need encouragement to get on their feet .
If they have trouble exporting , international bill for their support will grow larger than it otherwise would .
Idea is to let these countries earn their way as much as possible .
At the same time , another purpose of the conference will be to get certain low-wage countries to control textile exports -- especially dumping of specific products -- to high-wage textile-producing countries .
Japan , since 1957 , has been `` voluntarily '' curbing exports of textiles to the U.S. .
Hong Kong , India and Pakistan have been limiting exports of certain types of textiles to Britain for several years under the `` Lancashire Pact '' .
None of these countries is happy with these arrangements .
The Japanese want to increase exports to the U.S. While they have been curbing shipments , they have watched Hong Kong step in and capture an expanding share of the big U.S. market .
Hong Kong interests loudly protest limiting their exports to Britain , while Spanish and Portuguese textiles pour into British market unrestrictedly .
The Indians and Pakistanis are chafing under similar restrictions on the British market for similar reasons .
The Kennedy hope is that , at the conference or through bilateral talks , the low-wage textile-producing countries in Asia and Europe will see that `` dumping '' practices cause friction all around and may result in import quotas .
Gradual , controlled expansion of the world's textile trade is what President Kennedy wants .
This may point the way toward international stabilization agreements in other products .
It's an important clue to Washington thinking .
Note , too , that the Kennedy textile plan looks toward modernization or shrinkage of the U.S. textile industry .
`` Get competitive or get out '' .
In veiled terms , that's what the Kennedy Administration is saying to the American textile industry .
The Government will help in transferring companies and workers into new lines , where modernization doesn't seem feasible .
Special depreciation on new textile machinery may be allowed .
Government research will look into new products and methods .
Import quotas aren't ruled out where the national interest is involved .
But the Kennedy Administration doesn't favor import quotas .
Rather , they are impressed with the British Government's success in forcing -- and helping -- the British textile industry to shrink and to change over to other products .
What's happening in textiles can be handwriting on the wall for other lines having difficulty competing with imports from low-wage countries .
Among the highest-paid workers in the world are U.S. coal miners .
Yet U.S. coal is cheap enough to make foreign steelmakers' mouths water .
Steel Company of Wales , a British steelmaker , wants to bring in Virginia coal , cut down on its takings of Welsh coal in order to be able to compete more effectively -- especially in foreign markets .
Virginia coal , delivered by ship in Wales , will be about $2.80 a ton cheaper than Welsh coal delivered by rail from nearby mines .
U.S. coal is cheap , despite high wages , because of widespread mechanization of mines , wide coal seams , attactive rates on ocean freight .
Many of the coal seams in the nationalized British mines are twisting , narrow and very deep .
Productivity of U.S. miners is twice that of the British .
Welsh coal miners , Communist-led , are up in arms at the suggestion that the steel company bring in American coal .
They threaten to strike .
The British Government will have to decide whether to let U.S. coal in .
The British coal industry is unprofitable , has large coal stocks it can't sell .
Every library borrower , or at least those whose taste goes beyond the five-cent fiction rentals , knows what it is to hear the librarian say apologetically , `` I'm sorry , but we don't have that book .
There wouldn't be much demand for it , I'm afraid '' .
Behind this reply , and its many variations , is the ever-present budget problem all libraries must face , from the largest to the smallest .
What to buy out of the year's grist of nearly 15,000 book titles ? ?
What to buy for adult and child readers , for lovers of fiction and nonfiction , for a clientele whose wants are incredibly diversified , when your budget is pitifully small ? ?
Most library budgets are hopelessly inadequate .
A startlingly high percentage do not exceed $500 annually , which includes the librarian's salary , and not even the New York Public has enough money to meet its needs -- this in the world's richest city .
The plight of a small community library is proportionately worse .
Confronted with this situation , most libraries either endure the severe limitations of their budgets and do what they can with what they have , or else depend on the bounty of patrons and local governments to supplement their annual funds .
In some parts of the country , however , a co-operative movement has begun to grow , under the wing of state governments , whereby , with the financial help of the state , libraries share their book resources on a county-wide or regional basis .
New York State has what is probably the most advanced of these co-operative systems , so well developed that it has become a model for others to follow .
Because it is so large a state , with marked contrasts in population density , the organization of the New York co-operative offers a cross-section of how the plan works .
At one extreme are the systems of upper New York State , where libraries in two or more counties combine to serve a large , sparsely populated area .
At the other are organizations like the newly formed Nassau Library System , in a high-density area , with ample resources and a rapidly growing territory to serve .
Both these types , and those in between , are in existence by reason of a legislative interest in libraries that began at Albany as early as 1950 , with the creation by the legislature of county library systems financed by county governments with matching funds from the state .
It was a step in the right direction , but it took an additional act passed in 1958 to establish fully the thriving systems of today .
Under this law annual grants are given to systems in substantial amounts .
An earlier difficulty was overcome by making it clear that individual libraries in any area might join or not , as they saw fit .
Some library boards are wary of the plan .
A large , well-stocked library , surrounded in a county by smaller ones , may feel that the demands on its resources are likely to be too great .
A small library may cherish its independence and established ways , and resist joining in a cooperative movement that sometimes seems radical to older members of the board .
Within a system , however , the autonomy of each member library is preserved .
The local community maintains responsibility for the financial support of its own library program , facilities , and services , but wider resources and additional services become available through membership in a system .
All services are given without cost to members .
So obvious are these advantages that nearly 95 per cent of the population of New York State now has access to a system , and enthusiastic librarians foresee the day , not too distant , when all the libraries in the state will belong to a co-op .
To set up a co-operative library system , the law requires a central book collection of 100,000 nonfiction volumes as the nucleus , and the system is organized around it .
The collection may be in an existing library , or it may be built up in a central collection .
Each system develops differently , according to the area it serves , but the universal goal is to pool the resources of a given area for maximum efficiency .
The basic state grant is thirty cents for each person served , and there is a further book incentive grant that provides an extra twenty cents up to fifty cents per capita , if a library spends a certain number of dollars .
In Nassau County , for example , the heavily settled Long Island suburb of New York City , the system is credited by the state with serving one million persons , a figure that has doubled since 1950 .
This system , by virtue of its variety and size , offers an inclusive view of the plan in operation .
The Nassau system recognizes that its major task it to broaden reference service , what with the constant expansion of education and knowledge , and the pressure of population growth in a metropolitan area .
The need is for reference works of a more specialized nature than individual libraries , adequate to satisfy everyday needs , could afford .
Nassau is currently building a central collection of reference materials in its Hempstead headquarters , which will reach its goal of 100,000 volumes by 1965 .
The major part of this collection is in the central headquarters building , and the remainder is divided among five libraries in the system designated as subject centers .
Basic reference tools are the backbone of the collection , but there is also specialization in science and technology , an indicated weakness in local libraries .
On microfilm , headquarters also has a file of the New York Times from its founding in 1851 to the present day , as well as bound volumes of important periodicals .
The entire headquarters collection is available to the patrons of all members on interlibrary loans .
Headquarters gets about 100 requests every day .
It is connected by teletype with the State Library in Albany , which will supply any book to a system that the system itself cannot provide .
The books are carried around by truck in canvas bags from headquarters to the other libraries .
Each subject center library was chosen because of its demonstrated strength in a particular area , which headquarters could then build upon .
East Meadow has philosophy , psychology , and religion ; ;
Freeport houses social science , pure science , and language ; ;
history , biography , and education are centered in Hempstead ; ;
Levittown has applied science , business , and literature ; ;
while Hewlett-Woodmere is the repository of art , music , and foreign languages .
The reference coordinator at headquarters also serves as a consultant , and is available to work with the local librarian in helping to strengthen local reference service .
This kind of cooperation is not wholly new , of course .
Public libraries in Nassau County have been lending books to each other by mail for a quarter-century , but the system enables this process to operate on an organized and far more comprehensive basis .
Local libraries find , too , that the new plan saves tax dollars because books can be bought through the system , and since the system buys in bulk it is able to obtain larger discounts than would be available to an individual library .
The system passes on these savings to its members .
Further money is saved through economy in bookkeeping and clerical detail as the result of central billing .
Books are not the only resource of the system .
Schools and community groups turn to the headquarters film library for documentary , art , and experimental films to show at libraries that sponsor local programs , and to organizations in member communities .
The most recent film catalogue , available at each library , lists 110 titles presently in the collection , any of which may be borrowed without charge .
This catalogue lists separately films suitable for children , young adults , or adults , although some classics cut across age groups , such as `` Nanook Of The North '' , `` The Emperor's Nightingale '' , and `` The Red Balloon '' .
Workshops are conducted by the system's audio-visual consultant for the staffs of member libraries , teaching them the effective use of film as a library service .
The system well understands that one of its primary responsibilities is to bring children and books together ; ;
consequently an experienced children's librarian at headquarters conducts a guidance program designed to promote well-planned library activities , cooperating with the children's librarians in member libraries by means of individual conferences , workshops , and frequent visits .
Headquarters has also set up a central juvenile book-review and book-selection center , to provide better methods of purchasing and selection .
Sample copies of new books are on display at headquarters , where librarians may evaluate them by themselves or in workshop groups .
Story hours , pre-school programs , activities with community agencies , and lists of recommended reading are all in the province of the children's consultant .
Headquarters of the Nassau system is an increasingly busy place these days , threatening to expand beyond its boundaries .
In addition to the interlibrary loan service and the children's program , headquarters has a public relations director who seeks to get wider grassroots support for quality library service in the county ; ;
it prepares cooperative displays ( posters , booklists , brochures , and other promotional material ) for use in member libraries ; ;
it maintains a central exhibit collection to share displays already created and used ; ;
and it publishes Sum And Substance , a monthly newsletter , which reports the system's activities to the staffs and trustees of member libraries .
The system itself is governed by a board of trustees , geographically representing its membership .
In Nassau , as in other systems , the long-range objective is to bring the maximum service of libraries to bear on the schools , and on adult education in general .
Librarians , a patient breed of men and women who have borne much with dedication , can begin to see results today .
Library use is multiplying daily , and the bulk of the newcomers are those maligned Americans , the teen-agers .
To them especially the librarians , with the help of co-ops , hope they will never have to say , `` I'm sorry , we don't have that book '' .
Today , more than ever before , the survival of our free society depends upon the citizen who is both informed and concerned .
The great advances made in recent years in Communist strength and in our own capacity to destroy require an educated citizenry in the Western world .
The need for lifetime reading is apparent .
Education must not be limited to our youth but must be a continuing process through our entire lives , for it is only through knowledge that we , as a nation , can cope with the dangers that threaten our society .
The desire and ability to read are important aspects of our cultural life .
We cannot consider ourselves educated if we do not read ; ;
if we are not discriminating in our reading ; ;
if we do not know how to use what we do read .
We must not permit our society to become a slave to the scientific age , as might well happen without the cultural and spiritual restraint that comes from the development of the human mind through wisdom absorbed from the written word .
A fundamental source of knowledge in the world today is the book found in our libraries .
Although progress has been made in America's system of libraries it still falls short of what is required if we are to maintain the standards that are needed for an informed America .
The problem grows in intensity each year as man's knowledge , and his capacity to translate such knowledge to the written word , continue to expand .
The inadequacy of our library system will become critical unless we act vigorously to correct this condition .
There are , for example , approximately 25,000,000 people in this country with no public library service and about 50,000,000 with inadequate service .
In college libraries , 57 per cent of the total number of books are owned by 124 of 1,509 institutions surveyed last year by the U.S. Office of Education .
And over 66 per cent of the elementary schools with 150 or more pupils do not have any library at all .
In every aspect of service -- to the public , to children in schools , to colleges and universities -- the library of today is failing to render vitally needed services .
Only public understanding and support can provide that service .
This is one of the main reasons for National Library Week , April 16-22 , and for its theme : `` For a richer , fuller life , read '' ! !
Assembly session brought much good
The General Assembly , which adjourns today , has performed in an atmosphere of crisis and struggle from the day it convened .
It was faced immediately with a showdown on the schools , an issue which was met squarely in conjunction with the governor with a decision not to risk abandoning public education .
There followed the historic appropriations and budget fight , in which the General Assembly decided to tackle executive powers .
The final decision went to the executive but a way has been opened for strengthening budgeting procedures and to provide legislators information they need .
Long-range planning of programs and ways to finance them have become musts if the state in the next few years is to avoid crisis-to-crisis government .
This session , for instance , may have insured a financial crisis two years from now .
In all the turmoil , some good legislation was passed .
Some other good bills were lost in the shuffle and await future action .
Certainly all can applaud passage of an auto title law , the school bills , the increase in teacher pensions , the ban on drag racing , acceptance by the state of responsibility for maintenance of state roads in municipalities at the same rate as outside city limits , repeal of the college age limit law and the road maintenance bond issue .
No action has been taken , however , on such major problems as ending the fee system , penal reform , modification of the county unit system and in outright banning of fireworks sales .
Only a token start was made in attacking the tax reappraisal question and its companion issue of attracting industry to the state .
The legislature expended most of its time on the schools and appropriations questions .
Fortunately it spared us from the usual spate of silly resolutions which in the past have made Georgia look like anything but `` the empire state of the South '' .
We congratulate the entire membership on its record of good legislation .
In the interim between now and next year , we trust the House and Senate will put their minds to studying Georgia's very real economic , fiscal and social problems and come up with answers without all the political heroics .
League regularly stands on the side of right
The League of Women Voters , 40 now and admitting it proudly , is inviting financial contributions in the windup of its fund drive .
It's a good use of money .
These women whose organization grew out of the old suffrage movement are dedicated to Thomas Jefferson's dictum that one must cherish the people's spirit but `` Keep alive their attention '' .
`` If once they become inattentive to the public affairs '' , Jefferson said , `` you and I , and Congress and assemblies , judges and governors , shall all become wolves '' .
Newspapermen and politicians especially are aware of the penetrating attention and expert analysis the league gives to public affairs .
The league workers search out the pros and cons of the most complex issues and make them available to the public .
The harder the choice , the more willing the league is to wade in .
And the league takes a stand , with great regularity , on the side of right .
Look to Coosa Valley for industrial progress
Cities and counties interested in industrial development would do well in the months ahead to keep their eyes peeled toward the 13 northwest Georgia counties that are members of the Coosa Valley Area Planning and Development Commission .
Coupling its own budget of $83,750 with a $30,000 state grant authorized by Gov. Vandiver , the group expects to sign a contract in March with Georgia Tech. .
Then a full-time planning office will be established in Rome to work with a five-member Georgia Tech research staff for development of an area planning and industrial development program .
The undertaking has abundant promise .
It recognizes the fact that what helps one county helps its neighbors and that by banding together in an area-wide effort better results can be accomplished than through the go-it-alone approach .
Rusk idea strengthens United States defense
The Rusk belief in balanced defense , replacing the Dulles theory of massive retaliation , removes a grave danger that has existed .
The danger lay not in believing that our own A-bombs would deter Russia's use of hers ; ;
that theory was and is sound .
The danger lay in the American delusion that nuclear deterrence was enough .
By limiting American strength too much to nuclear strength , this country limited its ability to fight any kind of war besides a nuclear war .
This strategy heightened the possibility that we would have a nuclear war .
It also weakened our diplomatic stance , because Russia could easily guess we did not desire a nuclear war except in the ultimate extremity .
This left the Soviets plenty of leeway to start low-grade brushfire aggressions with considerable impunity .
By maintaining the nuclear deterrent , but gearing American military forces to fight conventional wars too , Secretary of State Rusk junks bluff and nuclear brinkmanship and builds more muscle and greater safety into our military position .
DeKalb budget shows county is on beam
DeKalb's budget for 1961 is a record one and carries with it the promise of no tax increase to make it balance .
It includes a raise in the county minimum wage , creation of several new jobs at the executive level , financing of beefed-up industrial development efforts , and increased expenditures for essential services such as health and welfare , fire protection , sanitation and road maintenance .
That such expansion can be obtained without a raise in taxes is due to growth of the tax digest and sound fiscal planning on the part of the board of commissioners , headed by Chairman Charles O. Emmerich who is demonstrating that the public trust he was given was well placed , and other county officials .
Somewhere , somebody is bound to love us
G. Mennen Williams is learning the difficulties of diplomacy rapidly .
Touring Africa , the new U.S. Assistant Secretary of State observed `` Africa should be for the Africans '' and the British promptly denounced him .
Then he arrived in Zanzibar and found Africans carrying signs saying `` American imperialists , go home '' .
Chin up , Soapy .
Power company backs confidence with dollars
Confidence in the state's economic future is reflected in the Georgia Power Company's record construction budget for this year .
The firm does a large amount of research and its forecasts have meaning .
It is good to know that Georgia will continue to have sufficient electrical power not only to meet the demands of normal growth but to encourage a more rapid rate of industrialization .
Georgia's mental health program received a badly needed boost from the General Assembly in the form of a $1,750,000 budget increase for the Milledgeville State Hospital .
Actually it amounts to $1,250,000 above what the institution already is receiving , considering the additional half-million dollars Gov. Vandiver allocated last year from the state surplus .
Either way it sounds like a sizable hunk of money and is .
But exactly how far it will go toward improving conditions is another question because there is so much that needs doing .
The practice of charging employes for meals whether they eat at the hospital or not should be abolished .
The work week of attendants who are on duty 65 hours and more per week should be reduced .
More attendants , nurses and doctors should be hired .
Patients deserve more attention than they are getting .
Even with the increase in funds for the next fiscal year , Georgia will be spending only around $3.15 per day per patient .
The national average is more than $4 and that figure is considered by experts in the mental health field to be too low .
Kansas , regarded as tops in the nation in its treatment of the mentally ill , spends $9 per day per patient .
Georgia has made some reforms , true .
The intensive treatment program is working well .
But in so many other areas we still are dragging .
Considering what is being done compared to what needs to be done , it behooves the hospital management to do some mighty careful planning toward making the best possible use of the increase granted .
The boost is helpful but inadequate .
The end of Trujillo
Assassination , even of a tyrant , is repulsive to men of good conscience .
Rafael Trujillo , the often blood-thirsty dictator of the Dominican Republic for 31 years , perhaps deserved his fate in an even-handed appraisal of history .
But whether the murder of El Benefactor in Ciudad Trujillo means freedom for the people of the Caribbean fiefdom is a question that cannot now be answered .
Trujillo knew a great deal about assassination .
The responsibility for scores of deaths , including the abduction and murder of Jesus Maria Galindez , a professor at Columbia University in New York , has been laid at his door .
He had been involved in countless schemes to do away with democratic leaders in neighboring countries such as President Romulo Betancourt of Venezuela .
It was a sort of poetic justice that at the time of his own demise a new plot to overthrow the Venezuelan government , reportedly involving the use of Dominican arms by former Venezuelan Dictator Marcos Perez Jimenez , has been uncovered and quashed .
The recent history of the Dominican Republic is an almost classical study of the way in which even a professedly benevolent dictatorship tends to become oppressive .
Unquestionably Trujillo did some good things for his country : he improved public facilities such as roads and sanitation , attracted industry and investment and raised the standard of living notably .
But the price was the silence of the grave for all criticism or opposition .
El Benefactor's vanity grew with his personal wealth .
The jails were filled to overflowing with political prisoners who had incurred his displeasure .
He maintained amply financed lobbies in the United States and elsewhere which sycophantically chanted his praise , and his influence extended even to Congress .
Until the last year or so the profession of friendship with the United States had been an article of faith with Trujillo , and altogether too often this profession was accepted here as evidence of his good character .
Tardily the Government here came to understand how this country's own reputation was tarnished by the association with repression .
Last year , after Trujillo had been cited for numerous aggressions in the Caribbean , the United States and many other members of the Organization of American States broke diplomatic relations with him .
Thereupon followed a demonstration that tyranny knows no ideological confines .
Trujillo's dictatorship had been along conservative , right-wing lines .
But after the censure he and his propaganda started mouthing Communist slogans .
There was considerable evidence of a tacit rapprochement with Castro in Cuba , previously a bete noire to Trujillo -- thus illustrating the way in which totalitarianism of the right and left coalesces .
What comes after Trujillo is now the puzzle .
The Dominican people have known no democratic institutions and precious little freedom for a generation , and all alternative leadership has been suppressed .
Perhaps the army will be able to maintain stability , but the vacuum of free institutions creates a great danger .
The Dominican Republic could turn toward Communist-type authoritarianism as easily as toward Western freedom .
Such a twist would be a tragedy for the Dominican people , who deserve to breathe without fear .
For that reason any democratic reform and effort to bring genuine representative government to the Dominican Republic will need the greatest sympathy and help .
Start on rapid transit
High-speed buses on the George Washington Memorial Parkway , operating between downtown Washington and Cabin John , Glen Echo and Brookmont , would constitute an alluring sample of what the new National Capital Transportation Agency can do for this city .
In presenting plans for such express buses before the Montgomery County Council , the administrator of the NCTA , C. Darwin Stolzenbach , was frankly seeking support for the projects his agency will soon be launching .
Such support should not be difficult to come by if all the plans to be presented by the NCTA are as attractive as this outline of express buses coming into the downtown area .
Because the buses would not stop on the parkway , land for bus stations and for parking areas nearby will be needed .
The NCTA is well advised to seek funds for this purpose from the present session of Congress .
Must Berlin remain divided ? ?
The inference has been too widely accepted that because the Communists have succeeded in building barricades across Berlin the free world must acquiesce in dismemberment of that living city .
So far as the record is concerned , the Western powers have not acquiesced and should not do so .
Though Walter Ulbricht , by grace of Soviet tanks , may be head man in East Germany , that does not give him any right to usurp the government of East Berlin or to absorb that semi-city into the Soviet zone .
The wartime protocol of September 12 , 1944 , designated a special `` Greater Berlin '' area , comprising the entire city , to be under joint occupation .
It was not a part of any one of the three ( later four ) zones for occupation by Soviet , American , British , and French troops respectively .
After the Berlin blockade and airlift , the Council of Foreign Ministers in 1949 declared a purpose `` to mitigate the effects of the present administrative division of Germany and of Berlin '' .
For some time the Communists honored the distinction between the Soviet zone of Germany and the Soviet sector of Berlin by promulgating separately the laws for the two areas .
Then they moved offices of the East German puppet government into East Berlin and began illegally to treat it as the capital of East Germany .
That this and the closing of the East Berlin-West Berlin border have not been accepted by the Western governments appears in notes which Britain , France , and the United States sent to Moscow after the latter's gratuitous protest over a visit of Chancellor Adenauer and other West German officials to West Berlin .
The Chancellor had as much business there as Ulbricht had in East Berlin -- and was certainly less provocative than the juvenile sound-truck taunts of Gerhard Eisler .
The British and other replies to that Moscow note pointed out efforts of the Communist authorities `` to integrate East Berlin into East Germany by isolating it from the outside and attempting to make it the capital of East Germany '' .
They insisted on the `` fundamental fact '' that `` the whole of Berlin has a quadripartite status '' .
This is far from acknowledging or recognizing those efforts as an accomplished fact .
There remains , of course , the question of what the West can do beyond diplomatic protest to prevent the illegal efforts from becoming accomplished facts .
One ground of action certainly exists when fusillades of stray shots go over into West Berlin as Communist `` vopos '' try to gun down fleeing unarmed residents .
Another remained when an American Army car was recovered but with a broken glass .
The glass may seem trivial but Communist official hooliganism feeds on such incidents unless they are redressed .
Remembering the step-by-step fate of Danzig and the West German misgivings about `` salami '' tactics , it is to be hoped that the dispatch of General Clay to West Berlin as President Kennedy's representative will mark a stiffening of response not only to future indignities and aggressions but also to some that have passed .
Prairie National Park
Thousands of buffalo ( `` bison '' they will never be to the man on the street ) grazing like a mobile brown throw-rug upon the rolling , dusty-green grassland .
A horizon even and seamless , binding the vast sun-bleached dome of sky to earth .
That picture of the American prairie is as indelibly fixed in the memory of those who have studied the conquest of the American continent as any later cinema image of the West made in live-oak canyons near Hollywood .
For it was the millions of buffalo and prairie chicken and the endless seas of grass that symbolized for a whole generation of Americans the abundant supply that was to take many of them westward when the Ohio and Mississippi valleys began to fill .
The National Park Service now proposes to preserve an area in Pottawatomie County , northeast Kansas , as a `` Prairie National Park '' .
There the buffalo would roam , to be seen as a tapestry , not as moth-eaten zoo specimens .
Wooded stream valleys in the folds of earth would be saved .
Grasslands would extend , unfenced , unplowed , unbroken by silo or barn -- as the first settlers saw them .
The Park Service makes an impressive ecological and statistical case for creating this new park .
American history should clinch the case when Congress is asked to approve .
Whisky on the air
A Philadelphia distiller is currently breaching the customary prohibition against hard-liquor advertising on TV and radio .
Starting with small stations not members of the National Association of Broadcasters , the firm apparently is seeking to break down the anti-liquor barriers in major-market stations .
Probably the best answer to this kind of entering wedge is congressional action requiring the Federal Communications Commission to ban such advertising through its licensing power .
The National Association of Broadcasters code specifically bars hard-liquor commercials .
Past polls of public opinion show popular favor for this policy .
Even the Distilled Spirits Institute has long had a specific prohibition .
Why , then , with these voluntary barricades and some state laws barring liquor ads , is it necessary to seek congressional action ? ?
Simply because the subverting action of firms that are not members of the Distilled Spirits Institute and of radio and TV stations that are not members of the NAB tends to spread .
Soon some members of the two industry groups doubtless will want to amend their codes on grounds that otherwise they will suffer unfairly from the efforts of non-code competitors .
Although the false glamour surrounding bourbon or other whisky commercials is possibly no more fatuous than the pseudo-sophistication with which TV soft-drinks are downed or toothpaste applied , there is a sad difference between enticing a viewer into sipping Oopsie-Cola and gulling him into downing bourbon .
A law is needed .
New York : Democrats' choice
Registered Democrats in New York City this year have the opportunity to elect their party's candidates for Mayor and other municipal posts and the men who will run their party organization .
In the central contest , that for Mayor , they may have found some pertinent points in what each faction has said about the other .
Mayor Robert F. Wagner must , as his opponents demand , assume responsibility for his performance in office .
While all citizens share in blame for lax municipal ethics the Wagner regime has seen serious problems in the schools , law enforcement and fiscal policies .
The Mayor is finding it awkward to campaign against his own record .
State Controller Arthur Levitt , on the other hand , cannot effectively deny that he has chosen to be the candidate of those party leaders who as a rule have shown livelier interest in political power than in the city's welfare .
They , too , have links with the city's ills .
Both men are known to be honest and public-spirited .
Mayor Wagner's shortcomings have perhaps been more mercilessly exposed than those of Mr. Levitt who left an impression of quiet competence in his more protected state post .
As Mayor , Mr. Levitt might turn out to be more independent than some of his leading supporters would like .
His election , on the other hand , would unquestionably strengthen the `` regulars '' .
Mr. Wagner might or might not be a `` new '' Mayor in this third term , now that he is free of the pressure of those party leaders whom he calls `` bosses '' .
These are , of course , the same people whose support he has only now rejected to seek the independent vote .
But his reelection would strengthen the liberal Democrats and the labor unions who back him .
If this choice is less exciting than New York Democrats may wish , it nevertheless must be made .
The vote still gives citizens a voice in the operation of their government and their party .
Little war , big test
Both Mr. K's have so far continued to speak softly and carry big sticks over Laos .
President Kennedy , already two quiet demands down , still refused Thursday to be drawn into delivering a public ultimatum to Moscow .
But at the same time he moved his helicopter-borne marines to within an hour of the fighting .
And Secretary Rusk , en route to Bangkok , doubtless is trying to make emergency arrangements for the possible entry of Australian or Thai SEATO forces .
For Mr. Kennedy , speaking softly and carrying a sizable stick is making the best of a bad situation .
The new President is in no position to start out his dealings with Moscow by issuing callable bluffs .
He must show at the outset that he means exactly what he says .
In this case he has put the alternatives clearly to Mr. Khrushchev for the third time .
At his press conference Mr. Kennedy said , `` All we want in Laos is peace not war a truly neutral government not a cold war pawn '' .
At the scene he has just as clearly shown his military strength in unprovocative but ready position .
Since Laos is of no more purely military value to Moscow itself than it is to Washington , this approach might be expected to head off Mr. Khrushchev for the moment .
But because of the peculiar nature of the military situation in Laos , the Soviet leader must be tempted to let things ride -- a course that would appear to cost him little on the spot , but would bog Washington in a tactical mess .
As wars go , Laos is an extremely little one .
Casualties have been running about a dozen men a day .
The hard core of the pro-Communist rebel force numbers only some 2,000 tough Viet Minh guerrilla fighters .
But for the United States and its SEATO allies to attempt to shore up a less tough , less combat-tested government army in monsoon-shrouded , road-shy , guerrilla-th'-wisp terrain is a risk not savored by Pentagon planners .
But if anything can bring home to Mr. Khrushchev the idea that he will not really get much enjoyment from watching this Braddock-against-the-Indians contest , it will probably be the fact that SEATO forces are ready to attempt it -- plus the fact that Moscow has something to lose from closing off disarmament and other bigger negotiations with Washington .
Fortunately both the Republicans and America's chief Western allies now are joined behind the neutral Laos aim of the President .
Actually it would be more accurate to say that the leader of the alliance now has swung fully behind the British policy of seeking to achieve a neutral Laos via the international bargaining table .
It is ironic that Washington is having to struggle so for a concept that for six years it bypassed as unreasonable .
The State Department tacitly rejected the neutral Laos idea after the Geneva conference of 1954 , and last year Washington backed the rightist coup that ousted neutral Premier Souvanna Phouma .
But since last fall the United States has been moving toward a pro-neutralist position and now is ready to back the British plan for a cease-fire patrolled by outside observers and followed by a conference of interested powers .
The road to a guaranteed-neutral , coup-proof Laos is today almost as difficult as warfare on that nation's terrain .
But for the safety of Southeast Asia , and for the sake of the Laotian people -- who would not be well-ruled by either militant minority now engaged in the fighting -- this last big effort to seal that country from the cold war had to be made .
The world awaits Mr. Khrushchev's choice of alternatives .
A vote for educational TV
The Senate's overwhelming ( 64-13 ) vote to support locally controlled educational TV efforts should be emulated in the lower house .
Twice previously the Senate has approved measures backing ETV and the House has let them die .
But this year prospects may be better .
The House communications subcommittee is expected to report out a good bill calling for the states to match federal funds .
This year's Senate measure would provide each state and the District of Columbia with $1,000,000 to be used in support of private , state , or municipal ETV efforts .
The funds would be used for equipment , not for land , buildings , or operation .
The relatively few communities that have educational stations have found them of considerable value .
But , lacking money from commercial sponsors , the stations have had difficulties meeting expenses or improving their service .
Other communities -- the ones to be aided most by the Senate bill -- have had difficulty starting such stations because of the high initial cost of equipment .
A good man departs .
Goodby , Mr. Sam
.
Sam Rayburn was a good man , a good American , and , third , a good Democrat .
He was all of these rolled into one sturdy figure ; ;
Mr. Speaker , Mr. Sam , and Mr. Democrat , at one and the same time .
The House was his habitat and there he flourished , first as a young representative , then as a forceful committee chairman , and finally in the post for which he seemed intended from birth , Speaker of the House , and second most powerful man in Washington .
Mr. Rayburn was not an easy man to classify or to label .
He was no flaming liberal , yet the New Deal , the Fair Deal and the New Frontier needed him .
He was not a rear-looking conservative , yet partisans of that persuasion will miss him as much as any .
Two of the vital qualities demanded of a politician by other politicians are that he always keep a confidence and that he keep his word .
Sam Rayburn took unnumbered secrets with him to the grave , for he was never loquacious , and his word , once given , was not subject to retraction .
It might be added that as he kept his word so he expected that others keep theirs .
The demonstration of his power was never flamboyant or theatrical .
His leadership was not for audiences .
A growl , a nod , was usually enough .
When it was not , one of the great dramas of Washington would be presented .
He would rise in the well of the House , his chin upon his chest , his hands gripping the side of a desk , and the political and legislative chatter would subside into silence .
He spoke briefly , sensibly , to the point and without oratorical flourishes .
He made good , plain American common sense and the House usually recognized it and acted upon it .
These public efforts were rare because Mr. Rayburn normally did his counseling , persuading and educating long before an issue reached its test on the House floor .
He expected Democrats to do their duty when it had been patiently pointed out to them .
With his long service he had a long memory , an excellent thing in a political leader .
He was , of course , in the House for a very long time .
There are only two men remaining in Congress who , with Rayburn , voted for the declaration of war against Germany in 1917 .
To almost two generations of Americans it must have seemed as though the existence of Mr. Sam coincided with that of the House .
And it was the House he loved .
To be presiding officer of it was the end of his desire and ambition .
The Senate to him was not the `` upper body '' and he corrected those who said he served `` under '' the president .
He served `` with '' him .
Sound the roll of those with whom he served and who preceded him in death .
Woodrow Wilson , with whom he began his years in Washington , Warren G. Harding , Calvin Coolidge , FDR , with whom he managed a social revolution .
And those still with us , Herbert C. Hoover , Harry S. Truman , Dwight D. Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy .
He was a fighter for those of his own party .
Mr. Truman has only to recall the `` hopeless '' campaign of 1948 to remember what a loyal partisan he was and the first experience of Mr. Kennedy with Congress would have been sadder than it was had not Mr. Sam been there .
As it was , his absence because of his final illness was a blow to the administration .
With Republican presidents , he fought fair .
He was his own man , not an automatic obstructionist .
He kept his attacks on Republicanism for partisan campaigns , but that is part of the game he was born to play .
Under any name -- Mr. Speaker , Mr. Democrat , Mr. Sam -- he was a good man .
un off the Congo track
Thirteen Italian airmen who went to the Congo to serve the cause of peace under the United Nations banner have instead met violent death at the hands of Congolese troops supposedly their friends .
In 18 months , no more grisly incident has been reported from that jungle .
Simply out of bloodlust , their murderers dismembered the bodies and tossed the remains into the river .
The excuse was offered for them that they had mistaken the Italians for Belgian mercenaries .
In other words , atrocities by savages wearing the uniform of the central government might be condoned , had the victims been serving the cause of dissident Katanga .
Does this suggest that the Congo is fit for nationhood or that UN is making any progress whatever toward its goal of so making it ? ?
To the contrary , through the past six weeks violence has been piled upon violence .
Mass rapes , troop mutinies , uncontrolled looting and pillage and reckless military adventures , given no sanction by any political authority , have become almost daily occurrences .
Yet this basic condition of outlawry and anarchy is not the work of Katanga .
It happens in the territory of the Leopoldville government , which is itself a fiction , demonstrably incapable of governing , and commanding only such limited credit abroad as UN support gives it .
The main question raised by the incident is how much longer will UN bury its head in the sand on the Congo problem instead of facing the bitter fact that it has no solution in present terms ? ?
The probable answer is that it will do so just as long as Russia can exercise a veto in favor of chaos and until young African nations wake up to the truth that out of false pride they are visiting ruin on Central Africa .
Right now , they are pushing a resolution which would have UN use its forces to invade and subjugate Katanga .
That notion is fantastically wrong-headed from several points of view .
The UN army is too weak , too demoralized for the task .
Further , it has its work cut out stopping anarchy where it is now garrisoned .
Last , it makes no sense to deliver Katanga , the one reasonably solid territory , into the existing chaos .
The Congo should have been mandated , because it was not ready for independence .
The idea was not even suggested because political expediency prevailed over wisdom .
It is perhaps too late now to talk of mandate because it is inconsistent with what is termed political realism .
But if any realism and feeling for truth remain in the General Assembly , it is time for men of courage to measure the magnitude of the failure and urge some new approach .
Otherwise , UN will march blindly on to certain defeat .
Featherbed reversal
A recent editorial discussing a labor-management agreement reached between the Southern Pacific Co. and the Order of Railroad Telegraphers has been criticized on the grounds that it was not based on complete information .
The editorial was based on a news association dispatch which said that the telegraphers had secured an agreement whereby they were guaranteed 40 hours' pay per week whether they worked or not and that a reduction in their number was limited to 2 per cent per year .
Our comment was that this was `` featherbedding '' in its ultimate form and that sympathy for the railroad was misplaced since it had entered into such an agreement .
The statement was also made that undoubtedly the railroad had received some compensating benefit from the telegraphers , but that it was difficult to imagine what could balance a job for life .
Additional information supplied to us discloses that the railroad gained a stabilized supply of telegraphers of which it was in need .
Also , normal personnel attrition would make the job reduction provision more or less academic .
The situation with regard to the Southern Pacific was therefore a special one and not necessarily applicable to other situations in other industries .
The solution reached in the agreement was more acceptable to the railroad than that originally included in a series of union demands .
Meditations from a fallout shelter
Time was when the house of delegates of the American Bar association leaned to the common sense side .
But the internationalists have taken over the governing body of the bar , and when the lads met in St. Louis , it was not to grumble about the humidity but to vote unanimously that the United Nations was scarcely less than wonderful , despite an imperfection here and there .
It was , the brief writers decided , `` man's best hope for a peaceful and law abiding world '' .
Peace , it's wonderful , and `` world law '' , it's wonderful , too , and shouldn't we get an international covenant extending it into space , before the Russians put some claim jumper on the moon ? ?
Meanwhile , in Moscow , Khrushchev was adding his bit to the march of world law by promising to build a bomb with a wallop equal to 100 million tons of TNT , to knock sense into the heads of those backward oafs who can't see the justice of surrendering West Berlin to communism .
A nuclear pacifier of these dimensions -- roughly some six and a half times bigger than anything the United States has triggered experimentally -- would certainly produce a bigger bang , and , just for kicks , Khrushchev might use it to propel the seminar of the house of delegates from St. Louis to the moon , where there wouldn't even be any beer to drink .
While he was at it , the philosopher of the Kremlin contributed an additional assist to the rule of reason by bellowing at those in the west who can't appreciate coexistence thru suicide .
`` Fools '' , he bayed , `` what do you think you are doing '' ? ?
The only response we can think of is the humble one that at least we aren't playing the marimba with our shoes in the United Nations , but perhaps the heavy domes in the house of delegates can improve on this feeble effort .
Another evidence of the spreading rule of reason was provided from Mexico City with the daily hijacking of an American plane by a demented Algerian with a gun .
The craft made the familiar unwelcome flight to Havana , where , for some unknown reason , Castro rushed to the airport to express mortification to the Colombian foreign minister , a passenger , who is not an admirer of old Ten O'Clock Shadow .
The plane was sent back to the United States , for a change , but Castro kept the crazy gunman , who will prove a suitable recruit to the revolution .
Less respect for the legal conventions was displayed by Castro's right hand man , Che Guevara , who edified the Inter-American Economic and Social council meeting in Montevideo by reading two secret American documents purloined from the United States embassy at Caracas , Venezuela .
The contents were highly embarrassing to American spokesmen , who were on hand to promise Latin Americans a 20 billion dollar foreign aid millennium .
Perhaps the moralities of world law are not advanced by stealing American diplomatic papers and planes , but the Kennedy administration can always file a demurrer to the effect that , but for its own incompetence in protecting American interests , these things would not happen .
The same can be said about the half-hearted Cuban invasion mounted by the administration last April , which , we trust , is not symptomatic of the methods to be invoked in holding off the felonious Khrushchev .
Pass the iron rations , please , and light another candle , for it's getting dark down here and we're minded to read a bit of world law just to pass the time away .
The customer loses again
.
The board of suspension of the Interstate Commerce commission has ordered a group of railroads not to reduce their freight rates on grain , as they had planned to do this month .
The request for lower rates originated with the Southern railway , which has spent a good deal of time and money developing a 100-ton hopper car with which it says it can move grain at about half what it costs in the conventional , smaller car .
By reducing rates as much as 60 per cent , it and its associated railroads hope to win back some of the business they have lost to truckers and barge lines .
The board's action shows what free enterprise is up against in our complex maze of regulatory laws .
A shock wave from Africa
Word of Dag Hammarskjold's death in an African plane crash has sent a shockwave around the globe .
As head of the United Nations he was the symbol of world peace , and his tragic end came at a moment when peace hangs precariously .
It was on the eve of a momentous U.N. session to come to grips with cold war issues .
His firm hand will be desperately missed .
Mr. Hammarskjold was in Africa on a mission of peace .
He had sought talks with Moise Tshombe , the secessionist president of Congo's Katanga province where recent fighting had been bloody .
He earnestly urged a cease-fire .
The story of the fatal crash is not fully known .
The U.N.-chartered plane which was flying from the conference city of Ndola in Northern Rhodesia had been riddled with machinegun bullets last weekend and was newly repaired .
Whether this , or overt action , was the cause of the crash must be promptly determined .
The death of Mr. Hammarskjold removes the United Nations' most controversial leader .
He was controversial because he was uncompromising for peace and freedom with justice .
He courageously defended the rights of small nations , and he stood his ground against the savage attacks of the Communist bloc .
The Congo , in whose cause he died , was the scene of one of his greatest triumphs .
His policies had resolved the conflicts that threatened to ignite the cold war and workable solutions were beginning to take shape .
When the recent Katangan outbreaks imperiled these solutions Mr. Hammarskjold , despite the danger , flew to exert a calming influence .
He gave his life for his beliefs .
The U.N. session scheduled for today will meet under the cloud of his passing .
It is a crucial session with the world on the edge of momentous developments .
If the manner of his passing moves the nations to act in the spirit of his dedication the sore issues that plague the world can yet be resolved with reason and justice .
That is the hope of mankind .
Monument to togetherness
reaching agreement on projects of value to the whole community has long been one of Greater Miami's hardest tasks .
Too many have bogged down in bickering .
Even when public bodies arrived at a consensus , at least one dissenting vote has been usual .
So we note approvingly a fresh sample of unanimity .
All nine members of the Inter-American Center Authority voted for Goodbody & Company's proposal to finance the long-awaited trade and cultural center .
The widely known financial firm has 60 days to spell out the terms of its contract .
If the indenture is accepted , the authority will proceed to validate a bond issue repayable from revenue .
Then Goodbody will hand over a minimum of $15.5 million for developing the spacious Graves Tract to house the center .
The next step awaits approval today by the Metro commissioners as the members of the Dade County Port Authority .
They allotted $500,000 three years ago to support Interama until its own financing could be arranged .
Less than half the sum has been spent , since the Interama board pinched pennies during that period of painstaking negotiations .
The balance is being budgeted for the coming year .
Unanimity on Interama is not surprising .
It is one of the rare public ventures here on which nearly everyone is agreed .
The City of Miami recently yielded a prior claim of $8.5 million on the Graves Tract to clear the way for the project .
County officials have cooperated consistently .
So have the people's elected spokesmen at the state and federal levels .
Interama , as it rises , will be a living monument to Greater Miami's ability to get together on worthwhile enterprises .
A short report and a good one
progress , or lack of it , toward civil rights in the 50 states is reported in an impressive 689-page compilation issued last week by the United States Commission on Civil Rights .
Much happened in this field during the past 12 months .
Each state advisory committee documented its own activity .
Some accounts are quite lengthy but Florida's is the shortest of all , requiring only four paragraphs .
`` The established pattern of relative calm in the field of race relations has continued in all areas '' , reported this group headed by Harold Colee of Jacksonville and including two South Floridians , William D. Singer and John B. Turner of Miami .
`` No complaints or charges have been filed during the past year , either verbally or written , from any individual or group .
`` The committee continues to feel that Florida has progressed in a sound and equitable program at both the state and local levels in its efforts to review and assess transition problems as they arise from time to time in the entire spectrum of civil rights '' .
Problems have arisen in this sensitive field but have been handled in most cases with understanding and restraint .
The progress reported by the advisory committee is real .
While some think we move too fast and others too slowly , Florida's record is a good one and stands out among the 50 .
West Germany remains Western
West Germany will face the crucial tests that lie ahead , on Berlin and unification , with a coalition government .
This is the key fact emerging from Sunday's national election .
Chancellor Adenauer's Christian Democratic Party slipped only a little in the voting but it was enough to lose the absolute Bundestag majority it has enjoyed since 1957 .
In order to form a new government it must deal with one of the two rival parties which gained strength .
Inevitably this means some compromise .
The aging chancellor in all likelihood will be retired .
Both Willy Brandt's Social Democrats , who gained 22 seats in the new parliament , and the Free Democrats , who picked up 23 , will insist on that before they enter the government .
Moon-faced Ludwig Erhart , the economic expert , probably will ascend to the leadership long denied him .
If he becomes chancellor , Dr. Erhart would make few changes .
The wizard who fashioned West Germany's astonishing industrial rebirth is the soul of free enterprise .
He is dedicated to building the nation's strength and , as are all West Germans , to a free Berlin and to reunion with captive East Germany .
What is in doubt as the free Germans and their allies consider the voting trends is the nature of the coalition that will result .
If the party of Adenauer and Erhart , with 45 per cent of the vote , approaches the party of Willy Brandt , which won 36 per cent , the result would be a stiffening of the old resolve .
West Berlin's Mayor Brandt vigorously demanded a firmer stand on the dismemberment of his city and won votes by it .
The Free Democrats ( 12 per cent of the vote ) believe a nuclear war can be avoided by negotiating with the Soviet Union , and more dealings with the Communist bloc .
The question left by the election is whether West Germany veers slightly toward more firmness or more flexibility .
It could go either way , since the gains for both points of view were about the same .
Regardless of the decision two facts are clear .
West Germany , with its industrial and military might , reaffirmed its democracy and remains firm with the free nations .
And the career of Konrad Adenauer , who upheld Germany's tradition of rock-like leaders which Bismarck began , draws near the end .
Better ask before joining
Americans are a nation of joiners , a quality which our friends find endearing and sometimes amusing .
But it can be dangerous if the joiner doesn't want to make a spectacle of himself .
For instance , so-called `` conservative '' organizations , some of them secret , are sprouting in the garden of joining where `` liberal '' organizations once took root .
One specific example is a secret `` fraternity '' which will `` coordinate anti-Communist efforts '' .
The principle is commendable but we suspect that in the practice somebody is going to get gulled .
According to The Chicago Tribune News Service , State Atty. Gen. Stanley Mosk of California has devised a series of questions which the joiner might well ask about any organization seeking his money and his name : 1 .
Does it assail schools and churches with blanket accusations ? ?
2 .
Does it attack other traditional American institutions with unsupportable and wild charges ? ?
3 .
Does it put the label of un-American or subversive on everyone with whom it disagrees politically ? ?
4 .
Does it attempt to rewrite modern history by blaming American statesmen for wars , Communism , depression , and other troubles of the world ? ?
5 .
Does it employ crude pressure tactics with such means as anonymous telephone calls and letter writing campaigns ? ?
6 .
Do its spokesmen seem more interested in the amount of money they collect than in the principles they purport to advocate ? ?
In some instances a seventh question can be added : 7 .
Does the organization show an affinity for a foreign government , political party or personality in opposition or preference to the American system ? ?
If the would-be joiner asks these questions he is not likely to be duped by extremists who are seeking to capitalize on the confusions and the patriotic apprehensions of Americans in a troubled time .
Falling somewhere in a category between Einstein's theory and sand fleas -- difficult to see but undeniably there , nevertheless -- is the tropical green `` city '' of Islandia , a string of offshore islands that has almost no residents , limited access and an unlimited future .
The latter is what concerns us all .
Whatever land you can see here , from the North tip end of Elliott Key looking southward , belongs to someone -- people who have title to the land .
And what you can't see , the land underneath the water , belongs to someone , too .
The public .
The only real problem is to devise a plan whereby the owners of the above-water land can develop their property without the public losing its underwater land and the right to its development for public use and enjoyment .
In the fairly brief but hectic history of Florida , the developers of waterfront land have too often wound up with both their land and ours .
In this instance , happily , insistence is being made that our share is protected .
And until this protection is at least as concrete as , say , the row of hotels that bars us from our own sands at Miami Beach , those who represent us all should agree to nothing .
Closed doors in city hall
The reaction of certain City Council members to California's newest anti-secrecy laws was as dismaying as it was disappointing .
We had assumed that at least this local legislative body had nothing to hide , and , therefore , had no objections to making the deliberations of its committees and the city commissions available to the public .
In the preamble to the open-meeting statutes , collectively known as the Brown Act , the Legislature declares that `` the public commissions , boards and councils and other public agencies in this state exist to aid in the conduct of the people's business .
It is the intent of the law that their actions be taken openly and that their deliberations be conducted openly .
`` The people of this state do not yield their sovereignty to the agencies that serve them .
The people , in delegating authority , do not give their public servants the right to decide what is good for the people to know and what is not good for them to know .
The full implementation of these noble words , however , has taken the efforts of five sessions of the Legislature .
Since 1953 California has led the nation in enacting guarantees that public business shall be publicly conducted , but not until this year did the lawmakers in Sacramento plug the remaining loopholes in the Brown Act .
Despite the lip service paid by local governments , the anti-secrecy statutes have been continuously subverted by reservations and rationalizations .
When all else fails , it is argued that open sessions slow down governmental operations .
We submit that this is a most desirable effect of the law -- and one of its principal aims .
Without public scrutiny the deliberations of public agencies would no doubt be conducted more speedily .
But the citizens would , of course , never be sure that the decisions that resulted were as correct as they were expeditious .
Help when needed
If the Dominican Republic achieves free , democratic government , it will be due in large part to the U.S. show of force that enabled President Balaguer to prevent a threatened restoration of Trujillo dictatorship .
Outwardly , Ciudad Trujillo is calm .
None of the Trujillo family remains .
Mr. Balaguer is in control , and opposition leaders have no further excuse to suspect his offer of a coalition government preliminary to free elections in the spring .
Had U.S. warships not appeared off the Dominican coast , there is every possibility that the country would now be wracked by civil war .
Ultimately either the Trujillos would have been returned to power or the conflict would have produced conditions favorable to a takeover by Dominican elements responsive to Castro in Cuba .
Within the Organization of American States , there may be some criticism of this unilateral American intervention which was not without risk obviously .
But there was no complaint from the Dominican crowds which lined Ciudad Trujillo's waterfront shouting , `` Vive Yankees '' ! !
More , the U.S. action was hailed by a principal opposition leader , Dr. Juan Bosch , as having saved `` many lives and many troubles in the near future '' .
Mr. Balaguer's troubles are by no means over .
He will need the help of all OAS members to eradicate , finally , the forces of authoritarianism , pro-Trujillo and pro-Castro alike .
In cooperating toward that objective , OAS might move with the speed and effectiveness demonstrated by the United States .
Matter of survival
those watching the growing rivalry between craft unions and industrial unions may recognize all the pressures that led to the big labor split in 1935 .
Now , as then , it is a matter of jobs .
Craft unions seek work that industrial unions claim , such as factory maintenance .
The issue was sufficiently potent in 1935 to spark secession from the American Federation of Labor of its industrial union members .
That breach was healed 20 years later by merger of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations .
Or that's what it looked like at the time .
But automation and the increasing complexity of factories has renewed the competition for jobs .
Walter Reuther , leader of the industrial union faction of the AFL-CIO , says another two years of this squabbling will be disastrous for all American labor .
Whether it could be as disastrous for American labor as , say , Jimmy Hoffa of the Teamsters , is a matter of conjecture .
But the jurisdictional disputes that result from the craft-industrial rivalry do not win friends for labor .
Engaged as it is in a battle for world trade as a condition of national survival , this country can have little patience with labor's family feuds .
The concept of labor as a special class is outmoded , and in the task confronting America as bastion of the free world , labor must learn to put the national interest first if it is itself to survive .
Deterrent
the Army , Navy and Air Force , among others , may question Secretary Freeman's claim that the high estate of United States agriculture is the `` strongest deterrent '' to the spread of communism .
But the secretary insists that the success of the American farmer is the `` greatest single source of strength '' in the struggle to insure freedom around the world .
Mr. Freeman said that in many of the countries he visited on a recent world trade trip people were more awed by America's capacity to produce food surpluses than by our industrial production -- or even by the Soviet's successes in space .
This shouldn't surprise the secretary ; ;
American taxpayers have been impressed by the surpluses for a long , long time .
In fact , over the years , the American farmer's capacity to over-produce has cost the taxpayers a large dollar .
And thus far , Mr. Freeman has offered very little relief .
The 1961 feed grain program , which the secretary sponsored , has been declared a billion dollar fiasco .
In exchange for higher price supports , growers pledged reduction in planted acreage .
But the farmers outsmarted Washington by shortening the distance between the rows and pouring on the fertilizer .
The result : $1.1 billion added to the deficit in the federal budget .
Perhaps , as Mr. Freeman says , American agriculture may stop the Communists , but it is also swindling the American taxpayer .
What's wrong at state
A senate subcommittee headed by Sen. Jackson of Washington has been going over the State Department and has reached some predictable conclusions .
The department needs a clearer `` sense of direction '' at the top and it needs fewer , but better , people , Sen. Jackson says .
The subcommittee is not alone in questioning the effectiveness of the department .
President Kennedy has indicated his dissatisfaction with its performance .
But those who would revitalize so complex an organization must , first of all , overcome the resistance of layers of officials wedded to traditional procedures , suspicious of innovation and fearful of mistakes .
Nor does Sen. Jackson discuss the delicate situation created by the presence in the White House of a corps of presidential assistants engaged in the study of foreign policy .
This tends to create friction and confusion and has not made it easier for Secretary Rusk to restore vigor and initiative among his subordinates .
But competent observers believe he is making progress , particularly toward what Sen. Jackson lists as the primary need -- `` a clearer understanding of where our vital national interests lie and what we must do to promote them '' .
The Jackson report will provide some of the political support Mr. Rusk will need if he is to get rid of department personnel engaged , as Sen. Jackson puts it , `` in work that does not really need doing '' .
Mr. Rusk should also draw comfort from Sen. Jackson's recommendation that congressional methods of dealing with national security problems be improved .
Self-criticism is a rare but needed commodity in Congress .
Betting men
forecasting economic activity is a hazardous undertaking even for the specialist .
But now apparently the job of Secretary of Labor requires that he be willing to risk his reputation as a prognosticator of unemployment trends .
James P. Mitchell , when he was the head of the department , promised to eat his hat if unemployment didn't drop below three million a couple of years ago .
He lost , but settled for a cake in the shape of a fedora .
His successor , Secretary Goldberg , also has been guessing wrong on a drop in the unemployment rate which has been holding just under 7 per cent for the last 11 months .
No betting man , Mr. Goldberg says he's merely `` putting my neck out again '' by predicting the rate will go down this month .
He is basing his guess on new government statistics that show business has broadened its stride -- a new record high in personal income , an increase in housing starts , a spurt in retail sales and a gain in orders for durable goods .
Mr. Mitchell had an excuse for losing -- the steel strike lasted much longer than he anticipated .
Mr. Goldberg has less reason for missing .
The economy seems to be sailing along on an even keel and the 1961 hurricane season and auto strikes are at an end so they can't be blamed in November .
The odds thus appear favorable that the secretary's neck may be spared .
Little resistance
Cambodia's chief of state , who has been accused of harboring Communist marauders and otherwise making life miserable for neighboring South Viet Nam and Thailand , insists he would be very unhappy if communism established its power in Southeast Asia .
But so convinced of communism's inevitable triumph is Prince Sihanouk that he is ready to throw in the towel .
`` I have to see the facts '' , is the way the prince puts it .
And from that point of vantage he concedes another two years of grace to nations maintaining a pro-Western posture .
Prince Sihanouk's powers of prognostication some day may be confirmed but history is not likely to praise the courage of his convictions .
Bottom sighted
Commerce Secretary Hodges seems to have been cast in the role of pacemaker for official Washington's economic forecasters .
Weeks ago he saw a business upturn in the second quarter of this year while his colleagues in the Cabinet were shaking their heads in disagreement .
Recently Treasury Secretary Dillon and Labor Secretary Goldberg fell into line with Mr. Hodges' appraisal , though there has been some reluctance to do so at the White House .
And now Mr. Hodges has pioneered further into the economic unknown with the announcement that he thinks business has stopped sliding and that it should start going upward from this point .
He is the first top administration officer to see the bottom of the slump .
The secretary based his assessment on the upturn in retail sales .
February's volume was 1 per cent above January's for the first pickup since last October , although it's still 1.5 per cent off from February 1960 .
Corroborating Mr. Hodges' figures was the Federal Reserve Board's report of the large sales increase in the nation's department stores for the week ending March 4 .
In Newark , for example , this gain was put at 26 per cent above the year-earlier level .
Of course , some of the credit for the sale boost must be given to improvement in the weather and to the fact that Easter comes more than two weeks earlier than in 1960 .
Another optimistic sign , this one from the Labor Department , was the report that the long rise in unemployment compensation payments `` was interrupted for the first time in the week ending Feb. 25 '' .
Initial claims for jobless benefits were said to have dropped by 8,100 in the week ending March 4 .
Mr. Hodges is so hopeful over the outlook that he doesn't think there will be any need of a cut in income taxes .
Well , we can't have everything .
Prosperity for the whole nation is certainly preferred to a tax cut .
In New Jersey , too
New Jersey folk need not be told of the builder's march to the sea , for in a single generation he has parceled and populated miles of our shoreline and presses on to develop the few open spaces that remain .
Now the Stone Harbor bird sanctuary , 31 acres of magic attraction for exotic herons , is threatened , but the battlefront extends far beyond our state .
Against the dramatic fight being waged for preservation of 30 miles of Cape Cod shoreline , the tiny tract at Stone Harbor may seem unimportant .
But Interior Secretary Udall warns that there is a race on between those who would develop our few surviving open shorelines and those who would save them for the enjoyment of all as public preserves .
The move for establishment of a national seashore park on 30,000 acres of Cape Cod , from Provincetown to Chatham , is strengthened by President Kennedy's interest in that area .
But preservation of the natural beauty of the Cape is of more than regional concern , for the automobile age has made it the recreation spot of people from all over the country .
By comparison , Stone Harbor bird sanctuary's allies seem less formidable , for aside from the Audubon Society , they are mostly the snowy , common and cattle egrets and the Louisiana , green , little blue and black-crowned herons who nest and feed there .
But there is hope , for Conservation Commissioner Bontempo has tagged the sanctuary as the kind of place the state hopes to include in its program to double its park space .
The desirability of preserving such places as the Cape dunes and Stone Harbor sanctuary becomes more apparent every year .
Public sentiment for conserving our rich natural heritage is growing .
But that heritage is shrinking even faster .
No joyride
much of the glamor President Kennedy's Peace Corps may have held for some prospective applicants has been removed by Sargent Shriver , the head corpsman .
Anybody who is expecting a joyride should , according to Mr. Shriver , get off the train right now .
First of all , the recruits will have to undergo arduous schooling .
It will be a 16-hour training day .
Then off to a remote place in an underdeveloped country where the diet , culture , language and living conditions will be different .
And the pay , of course , will be nil .
Despite all this , the idea apparently has captured the imagination of countless youths whose parents are probably more surprised by the response than anybody else .
The study of the St. Louis area's economic prospects prepared for the Construction Industry Joint Conference confirms and reinforces both the findings of the Metropolitan St. Louis Survey of 1957 and the easily observed picture of the Missouri-Illinois countryside .
St. Louis sits in the center of a relatively slow-growing and in some places stagnant mid-continent region .
Slackened regional demand for St. Louis goods and services reflects the region's relative lack of purchasing power .
Not all St. Louis industries , of course , have a market area confined to the immediate neighborhood .
But for those which do , the slow growth of the area has a retarding effect on the metropolitan core .
The city has a stake in stimulating growth and purchasing power throughout outstate Missouri and Southern Illinois .
Gov. Dalton's New Commerce and Industry Commission is moving to create a nine-state regional group in a collective effort to attract new industry .
That is one approach .
Another would be to take the advice of Dr. Elmer Ellis , president of the University of Missouri , and provide for an impartial professional analysis of Missouri's economy .
He says the state , in order to proceed with economic development , must develop an understanding of how the various parts of its economy fit together and dovetail into the national economy .
The research center of the University's School of Business and Public Administration is prepared to undertake the analysis Dr. Ellis has been talking about .
He and Dean John W. Schwada of the Business School outlined the project at a recent conference .
The University can make a valuable contribution to the state's economic development through such a study .
In Southern Illinois , the new federal program of help to economically depressed areas ought to provide some stimulus to growth .
The Carbondale Industrial Development Corp. has obtained a $500,000 loan to help defray the cost of remodeling a city-owned factory to accommodate production that will provide 500 new jobs .
Carbondale is in the Herrin-Murphysboro-West Frankfort labor market , where unemployment has been substantially higher than the national average .
The Federal program eventually should have a favorable impact on Missouri's depressed areas , and in the long run that will benefit St. Louis as well .
Politics-ridden St. Clair county in Illinois presents another piece of the problem of metropolitan development .
More industrial acreage lies vacant in St. Clair county than in any other jurisdiction in the St. Louis area .
The unstable political situation there represents one reason new plants shy away from the East Side .
And then there is St. Louis county , where the Democratic leadership has shown little appreciation of the need for sound zoning , of the important relationship between proper land use and economic growth .
St. Louis county under its present leadership also has largely closed its eyes to the need for governmental reform , and permitted parochial interests to take priority over area-wide interests .
Some plant-location specialists take these signs to mean St. Louis county doesn't want industry , and so they avoid the area , and more jobs are lost .
Metropolitan St. Louis's relatively slow rate of growth ought to be a priority concern of the political , business , civic and other leaders on both sides of the Mississippi .
Without a great acceleration in the metropolitan area's economy , there will not be sufficient jobs for the growing numbers of youngsters , and St. Louis will slip into second-class status .
An excess of zeal
Many of our very best friends are reformers .
Still we must confess that sometimes some of them go too far .
Take , for example , the reformers among New York City's Democrats .
Having whipped Mr. De Sapio in the primaries and thus come into control of Tammany Hall , they have changed the name to Chatham Hall .
Even though headquarters actually have been moved into the Chatham building , do they believe that they can make the new name stick ? ?
Granted that the Tammany name and the Tammany tiger often were regarded as badges of political shame , the sachems of the Hall also have a few good marks to their credit .
But it is tradition rather than the record which balks at the expunging of the Tammany name .
After all , it goes back to the days in which sedition was not un-American , the days in which the Sons of St. Tammany conspired to overthrow the government by force and violence -- the British government , that is .
Further , do our reforming friends really believe that the cartoonists will consent to the banishment of the tiger from their zoo ? ?
They will -- when they give up the donkey and the elephant .
Instead of attempting the impossible , why not a publicity campaign to prove that all the tiger's stripes are not black ? ?
That might go over .
The Faget case
The White House itself has taken steps to remove a former Batista official , Col. Mariano Faget , from his preposterous position as interrogator of Cuban refugees for the Immigration Service .
The Faget appointment was preposterous on several grounds .
The Kennedy Administration had assured anti-Castro Cubans that it would have nothing to do with associates of Dictator Batista .
Using a Batista man to screen refugees represented a total misunderstanding of the democratic forces which alone can effectively oppose Castro .
Moreover , Col. Faget's information on Cuba was too outdated to be useful in `` screening '' Castro agents ; ;
the Colonel fled to the friendly haven of the Dominican dictatorship as soon as Castro seized power .
And while he had headed Batista's anti-Communist section , the Batista regime did not disturb the Communists so much as more open opponents who were alleged to be Communists .
Responsibility for the Faget appointment rests with Gen. J. M. Swing , an Eisenhower appointee as head of the Immigration Service .
Gen. Swing has received public attention before this for abuse of some of the prerogatives of his office .
His official term expired last summer .
Some reports say he was rescued from timely retirement by his friend , Congressman Walter of Pennsylvania , at a moment when the Kennedy Administration was diligently searching for all the House votes it could get .
Congressman Walter has been all-powerful in immigration matters , but he has announced plans to retire in 1962 .
At that point the Administration will have little reason to hang onto Gen. Swing .
The Faget case was the kind of salvage job the Administration should not have to repeat .
Mr. Eisenhower , politician
As President , Dwight D. Eisenhower often assumed a role aloof from the strife of partisan politics .
As a former President , however , Mr. Eisenhower abandoned this role to engage in partisan sniping during a New York Republican rally , and generally missed his target .
Mr. Eisenhower seized upon the incident of the postcard lost by a Peace Corps girl in Nigeria to attack the entire Corps as a `` juvenile experiment '' and to suggest sending a Corps member to the moon .
This was juvenile ridicule .
Nowhere did the speaker recognize the serious purpose of the Corps or its welcome reception abroad .
His words were the more ungracious to come from a man who lent his name to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships dedicated to the same goal of international understanding .
The former President blithely ignored recent history in speaking of `` dollarette '' dollars under Kennedy Administration fiscal policies .
It was the Eisenhower Administration which produced the largest peacetime deficit .
Finally , Mr. Eisenhower found nothing but confusion in Washington .
This statement recalls the 1959 Berlin crisis , when President Eisenhower first told reporters that Berlin could not be defended with conventional weapons and then added that a nuclear defense was out of the picture too .
The crisis has been renewed since then but the confusion has hardly been compounded .
Ex-Presidents , relieved of accountability for policy , sometimes seem to feel free of accountability for their words .
Some of former President Truman's off-the-cuff discourses have been in that vein .
Nobody can deny the right of former Chief Executives to take part in politics , but the American people expect them always to remember the obligations of national leadership and to treat issues with a sense of responsibility .
This is a matter of respect for the Presidency .
Mr. Eisenhower's New York speech does not encourage respect for that or for his elder statesmanship .
Queen of the seas
The Queen Mary has long been a symbol of speed , luxury , and impeccable British service on the high seas .
Reports that the venerable liner , which has been in service since 1936 , was to be retired struck a nostalgic note in many of us .
But the Cunard line , influenced by unpleasant economic facts and not sentiment , has decided to keep the Queen Mary in service until next Spring at least .
A new queen , with the prosaic title of Q3 , had been planned for several years to replace the Queen Mary .
The British government , concerned about the threat of unemployment in the shipbuilding industry , had put through a bill to give Cunard loans and grants totaling $50,400,000 toward the $84,000,000 cost of a new 75,000-ton passenger liner .
Since 1957 , more and more trans-Atlantic passengers have been crossing by air .
Economy class fares and charter flights have attracted almost all new passengers to the airlines .
Competition from other steamship lines has cut Cunard's share of sea passengers from one-third to one-fourth and this year the line showed a marked drop of profits on the Atlantic run .
The Cunard line has under consideration replacing the Queen Mary with a ship smaller than 75,000 tons .
This would be cheaper to operate and could be used for cruises during the lean winter months .
Also under consideration is an increased investment in Cunard Eagle Airways which has applied to serve New York .
The decline of the Cunard line from its position of dominance in Atlantic travel is a significant development in the history of transportation .
Mission to Viet Nam
Gen. Maxwell Taylor's statement in Saigon that he is `` very much encouraged '' about the chances of the pro-Western government of Viet Nam turning back Communist guerrilla attacks comes close to an announcement that he will not recommend dispatching United States troops to bolster the Vietnamese Army .
Gen. Taylor will report to President Kennedy in a few days on the results of his visit to South Viet Nam and , judging from some of his remarks to reporters in the Far East , he is likely to urge a more efficient mobilization of Vietnamese military , economic , political and other resources .
There was good reason for Gen. Taylor to make an inspection trip at this time .
Communist guerrillas recently have been reported increasing their activities and the great flood of the Mekong River has interposed a new crisis .
South Viet Nam's rice surplus for next year -- more than 300,000 tons -- may have been destroyed .
The Viet Cong , the Communist rebels , may have lost their stored grain and arms factories .
The rebels may try to seize what is left of the October harvest when the floods recede and the monsoon ends in November .
Nothing that is likely to happen , however , should prompt the sending of United States soldiers for other than instructional missions .
The Indochina struggle was a war to stay out of in 1954 , when Gen. Ridgway estimated it would take a minimum of 10 to 15 divisions at the outset to win a war the French were losing .
It is a war to stay out of today , especially in view of the fact that President Ngo Dinh Diem apparently does not want United States troops .
He may want additional technical help , and this should be forthcoming .
South Viet Nam has received $1,450,000,000 in United States aid since 1954 and the rate of assistance has been stepped up since Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson's visit last May .
Gen. Taylor , the President's special military adviser , is a level-headed officer who is not likely to succumb to propaganda or pressure .
It is probable that his recommendations will be informed and workable , and that they will not lead to involving the United States in an Asian morass .
Gov. John M. Dalton , himself a lawyer and a man of long service in government , spoke with rich background and experience when he said in an address here that lawyers ought to quit sitting in the Missouri General Assembly , or quit accepting fees from individuals and corporations who have controversies with or axes to grind with the government and who are retained , not because of their legal talents , but because of their government influence .
The U.N.'s ' gravest crisis '
Ambassador Stevenson yesterday described the U.N.'s problem of electing a temporary successor to the late Dag Hammarskjold as `` the gravest crisis the institution has faced '' .
Of course it is .
If the decision goes wrong , it may be -- as Mr. Stevenson fears -- `` the first step on the slippery path downhill '' to a U.N. without operational responsibilities and without effective meaning .
The integrity of the office not merely requires that the Secretary General shall be , as the Charter puts it , `` the chief administrative officer of the Organization '' , but that neither he nor his staff shall seek or receive instructions from any government or any other authority `` external to the Organization '' .
In other words , the Secretary General is to be a nonpartisan , international servant , not a political , national one .
He should be , as Dag Hammarskjold certainly was , a citizen of the world .
The Charter does stipulate that `` due regard '' shall be paid to the importance of recruiting the staff on `` as wide a geographical basis as possible '' .
The United States and its allies have had no objection to this .
What they have objected to is the attempt of the Russians to make use of the tragedy of Dag Hammarskjold's death to turn the entire U.N. staff from the Secretary down into political agents of the respective countries from which they come .
The controversy now revolves mainly around the number and geographic origin of the deputies of the Secretary General and , more particularly , around the nature of his relationship with them .
Although the United States and the U.S.S.R. have been arguing whether there shall be four , five or six top assistants , the most important element in the situation is not the number of deputies but the manner in which these deputies are to do their work .
If any one of them has any power to veto the Secretary General's decisions the nature of the organization will have changed .
If they give him advice when he asks it , or if they perform specified duties under his direction , the nature of the U. N. will not of necessity change .
The Secretary General must have , subject to the constitutional direction of the Security Council and the General Assembly , the power to act , to propose action and to organize action without being hobbled by advisers and assistants acting on someone else's instructions .
This is the root issue for which the United States should stand .
We should not become confused or let our public become confused over irrelevant questions of number or even of geography .
What we must have , if the United Nations is to survive , is as nonpolitical , nonpartisan an organization at the top as human beings can make it , subject to no single nation's direction and subservient to no single nation's ambition .
What the new charter does
The new City Charter , which should get a Yes vote as Question No. 1 on Nov. 7 , would not make a good Mayor out of a bad one .
There is no such magic in man-made laws .
But it would greatly strengthen any Mayor's executive powers , remove the excuse in large degree that he is a captive of inaction in the Board of Estimate , increase his budget-making authority both as to expense and capital budgets , and vest in him the right to reorganize city departments in the interest of efficiency and economy .
Lawmaking power is removed from the Board of Estimate and made a partnership responsibility of the City Council and the Mayor .
Thus there is a clearer division of authority , administrative and legislative .
The board is diminished in both respects , while it retains control over zoning , franchises , pier leases , sale , leasing and assignment of property , and other trusteeship functions .
The board will be able to increase , decrease , add or eliminate budget items , subject to the Mayor's veto ; ;
but the City Council will now share fully this budget-altering power .
Overriding of mayoral veto on budget changes will require concurrence by board and Council , and a two-thirds vote .
The Controller retains his essential `` fiscal watchdog '' functions ; ;
his broad but little used investigative powers are confirmed .
He loses now-misplaced tax collection duties , which go to the Finance Department .
On net balance , in spite of Controller Gerosa's opposition to the new Charter as an invasion of his office , the Controller will have the opportunity for greater usefulness to good government than he has now .
Borough Presidents , while retaining membership in the Board of Estimate , lose their housekeeping functions .
Highways go to a new Department of Highways , sewers to the Department of Public Works , such street cleaning as Borough Presidents now do ( in Queens and Richmond ) to the Sanitation Department .
Some fiscal changes are important .
The expense ( operating ) budget is to be a program budget , and red tape is cut to allow greater autonomy ( with the Mayor approving ) in fund transfers within a department .
The capital budget , for construction of permanent improvements , becomes an appropriating document instead of just a calendar of pious promises ; ;
but , as a second-look safeguard , each new project must undergo a Board of Estimate public hearing before construction proceeds .
A road block to desirable local or borough improvements , heretofore dependent on the pocketbook vote of taxpayers and hence a drag on progress , is removed by making these a charge against the whole city instead of an assessment paid by those immediately affected .
This will have a beneficial effect by expediting public business ; ;
it will also correct some injustices .
Enlargement of the City Council and a new method of selecting members will be discussed tomorrow .
Inter-american Press
The Inter-american Press Association , which blankets the Western Hemisphere from northern Canada to Cape Horn , is meeting in New York City this week for the first time in eleven years .
The I. A. P. A. is a reflection of the problems and hopes of the hemisphere ; ;
and in these days this inevitably means a concentration on the effects of the Cuban revolution .
As the press in Cuba was gradually throttled by the Castro regime , more and more Cuban publishers , editors and correspondents were forced into exile .
The I. A. P. A. found itself driven from journalism into politics as it did its best to bring about the downfall of the Castro Government and the return of the Cuban press to the freedom it knew before Batista's dictatorship began in 1952 .
Freedom of the press was lost in Cuba because of decades of corruption and social imbalances .
In such conditions all freedoms are lost .
This , in more diplomatic language , is what Adlai Stevenson told the newspaper men of Latin America yesterday on behalf of the United States Government .
He felt able to end on a note of hope .
He sees evidence of fair winds for the ten-year Alliance for Progress plan with its emphasis on social reforms .
No group can contribute more to the success of the program than the editors and publishers of the Inter-American Press Association .
Meeting in Moscow
The Twenty-second Soviet Communist Party Congress opens in Moscow today in a situation contrasting sharply with the script prepared many months ago when this meeting was first announced .
According to the original program , Premier Khrushchev expected the millions looking toward the Kremlin this morning to be filled with admiration or rage -- depending upon individual or national politics -- because of the `` bold program for building communism in our time '' which the Congress will adopt .
But far from being concerned about whether or not Russia will have achieved Utopia by 1980 , the world is watching Moscow today primarily for clues as to whether or not there will be nuclear Armageddon in the immediate future .
The evident contradiction between the rosy picture of Russia's progress painted by the Communist party's program and the enormous dangers for all humanity posed by Premier Khrushchev's Berlin policy has already led to speculation abroad that the program may be severely altered .
Whether it is or not , the propaganda impact on the free world of the document scheduled to be adopted at this meeting will be far less than had been originally anticipated .
And there must be many Soviet citizens who know what is going on and who realize that before they can hope to enjoy the full life promised for 1980 they and their children must first survive .
This Congress will see Premier Khrushchev consolidating his power and laying the groundwork for an orderly succession should death or illness remove him from the scene in the next few years .
The widespread purge that has taken place the past twelve months or so among Communist leaders in the provinces gives assurance that the party officials who will dominate the Congress , and the Central Committee it will elect , will all have passed the tightest possible Khrushchev screening , both for loyalty to him and for competence and performance on the job .
Dr. Conant's call to action
Dr. James B. Conant has earned a nationwide reputation as a moderate and unemotional school reformer .
His earlier reports considered the American public schools basically sound and not in need of drastic change .
Now , a close look at the schools in and around the ten largest cities , including New York , has shattered this optimism .
Dr. Conant has come away shocked and angry .
His new book , entitled `` Slums And Suburbs '' , calls for fast and drastic action to avert disaster .
There is room for disagreement concerning some of Dr. Conant's specific views .
His strong opposition to the transfer of Negro children to schools outside their own neighborhood , in the interest of integration , will be attacked by Negro leaders who have fought for , and achieved , this open or permissive enrollment .
Dr. Conant may underestimate the psychological importance of even token equality .
His suggestion that the prestige colleges be made the training institutions for medical , law and graduate schools will run into strong opposition from these colleges themselves -- even though what he is recommending is already taking shape as a trend .
But these are side issues to a powerful central theme .
That theme cuts through hypocrisies , complacency and double-talk .
It labels the slums , especially the Negro slums , as dead-end streets for hundreds of thousands of youngsters .
The villains of the piece are those who deny job opportunities to these youngsters , and Dr. Conant accuses employers and labor unions alike .
The facts , he adds , are hidden from public view by squeamish objections to calling bad conditions by their right name and by insistence on token integration rather than on real improvement of the schools , regardless of the color of their students .
A call for action `` before it is too late '' has alarming implications when it comes from a man who , in his previous reports on the schools , cautioned so strongly against extreme measures .
These warnings must not be treated lightly .
Dr. Conant's conscientious , selfless efforts deserve the nation's gratitude .
He has served in positions of greater glamour , both at home and abroad ; ;
but he may well be doing his greatest service with his straightforward report on the state of the public schools .
And now -- more junk mail
A fascinating letter has just reached this desk from a correspondent who likes to receive so-called junk mail .
He was delighted to learn that the Post Office Department is now going to expand this service to deliver mail from Representatives in Congress to their constituents without the use of stamps , names , addresses or even zone numbers .
In accordance with legislation passed at the last session of Congress , each Representative is authorized to deliver to the Post Office in bulk newsletters , speeches and other literature to be dropped in every letter box in his district .
This means an added burden to innumerable postmen , who already are complaining of heavy loads and low pay , and it presumably means an increased postal deficit , but , our correspondent writes , think of the additional junk mail each citizen will now be privileged to receive on a regular basis .
Our creditors do not forget us
Letter writing is a dying art .
Occasional letters are sent by individuals to one another and many are written by companies to one another , but these are mostly typewritten .
Most mail these days consists of nothing that could truly be called a letter .
Old , tired , trembling the woman came to the cannery .
She had , she said , heard that the plant was closing .
It couldn't close , she said .
She had raised a calf , grown it beef-fat .
She had , with her own work-weary hands , put seeds in the ground , watched them sprout , bud , blossom , and get ready to bear .
She was ready to kill the beef , dress it out , and with vegetables from her garden was going to can soup , broth , hash , and stew against the winter .
She had done it last year , and the year before , and the year before that , and she , and her people were dependent upon these cans for food .
This did not happen in counties of North Georgia , where the rivers run and make rich the bottom land .
Nor in South Georgia , where the summer sun shines warmly and gives early life to the things growing in the flat fields .
This happened in Decatur , DeKalb County , not 10 miles from the heart of metropolitian Atlanta .
And now , the woman , tired and trembling , came here to the DeKalb County cannery .
`` Is it so the cannery is going to close '' ? ?
O. N. Moss , 61 , tall , grey as a possum , canning plant chief since 1946 , didn't know what to say .
He did say she could get her beef and vegetables in cans this summer .
He did say he was out of cans , the No. 3's , but `` I requisitioned 22,000 '' .
He said he had No. 2's enough to last two weeks more .
Threat of closing the cannery is a recent one .
A three-man committee has recommended to Commission Chairman Charles O. Emmerich that the DeKalb County cannery be closed .
Reason : the cannery loses $3,000 yearly .
But DeKalb citizens , those who use the facilities of the cannery , say the cannery is not supposed to make any money .
`` The cannery '' , said Mrs. Lewellyn Lundeen , an active booster of the cannery since its opening during the war and rationing years of 1941 , to handle the `` victory garden '' produce , `` is a service to the taxpayer .
And one of the best services available to the people who try to raise and can meat , to plant , grow vegetables and put them up .
It helps those people who help themselves .
`` The county , though , seems more interested in those people who don't even try , those who sit and draw welfare checks and line up for surplus food '' .
A driver of a dairy truck , who begins work at 1 a.m. finishes before breakfast , then goes out and grows a garden , and who has used the cannery to save and feed a family of five , asked , `` What in the world will we do '' ? ?
`` What in the world '' , echoed others , those come with the beans , potatoes , the tomatoes , `` will any of us do '' ? ?
Moss , a man who knows how much the cannery helps the county , doesn't believe it will close .
But he is in the middle , an employe of DeKalb , but on the side of the people .
The young married people ; ;
the old couples .
The dairy truck driver ; ;
the old woman with the stew .
`` Don't ask me if I think the cannery helps '' , he said .
`` Sir , I know the cannery helps '' .
Most of us would be willing to admit that forgiveness comes hard .
When a person has thoughtlessly or deliberately caused us pain or hardship it is not always easy to say , `` Just forget it '' .
There is one thing I know ; ;
a person will never have spiritual poise and inner peace as long as the heart holds a grudge .
I know a man who held resentment against a neighbor for more than three decades .
Several years ago I was his pastor .
One night , at the close of the evening service , he came forward , left his resentment at the altar and gave his heart to God .
After almost everyone had gone he told me the simple story of how one of his neighbors had moved a fence a few feet over on his land .
`` We tried to settle this dispute '' , he said , `` but could never come to an agreement .
I settled it tonight '' , he continued .
`` I leave this church with a feeling that a great weight has been lifted off my heart , I have left my grudge at the altar and forgiven my neighbor '' .
Forgiveness is the door through which a person must pass to enter the Kingdom of God .
You cannot wear the banner of God and at the same time harbor envy , jealousy and grudges in your heart .
Henry Van Dyke said , `` Forgive and forget if you can ; ;
but forgive anyway '' .
Jesus made three things clear about forgiveness .
We must , first of all , be willing to forgive others before we can secure God's forgiveness .
`` For if ye forgive men their trespasses , your heavenly Father will also forgive you : but if ye forgive not men their trespasses , neither will your Father forgive -- your trespasses '' .
Matthew 6 : 14-15 .
It will do no good to seek God's forgiveness until we have forgiven those who have done us wrong .
Then , Jesus indicated that God's forgiveness is unlimited .
In the prayer Jesus taught his disciples to pray we find these words , `` Forgive us our debts '' .
When a person meets God's requirements for the experience of forgiveness he is forgiven .
God's mercy and patience will last forever .
Forgiveness implies more than a person wanting his past sins covered by God's love .
It also implies that a man wants his future to be free from the mistakes of the past .
We want the past forgiven , but at the same time we must be willing for God to direct the future .
Finally , we must be willing to forgive others as many times as they sin against us .
Once Peter asked , `` How oft shall my brother sin against me , and I forgive him ? ?
Till seven times ? ?
Jesus saith unto him , until seventy times seven '' .
Matthew 18 : 21-22 .
Jesus not only taught forgiveness , He gave us an example of it on the cross .
With all the energy of his broken body he prayed , `` Father , forgive them , for they know not what they do '' .
Luke 23:34 .
She's been in and out of my house for a dozen years now , although she's still a teen-ager who looks like a baby , she is getting married .
Her mother , now dead , was my good friend and when she came to tell us about her plans and to show off her ring I had a sobering wish to say something meaningful to her , something her mother would wish said .
For a while there was such shrill girlish commotion I couldn't have made myself heard if I'd had the equivalent of the message to Garcia .
But when some of the squeals had subsided and she had been through one of those sessions that are so indispensable to the young female -- six girls sprawled on one bed , drinking Cokes and giggling -- she came back to the kitchen to talk with me a minute .
`` How do you know you love somebody enough to get married '' ? ?
She asked .
It was the oldest and toughest question young lovers have ever asked : How can you be sure ? ?
`` Aren't you sure '' ? ?
I asked , looking at her searchingly .
I wanted to grab her by the arm and beg her to wait , to consider , to know for certain because life is so long and marriage is so important .
But if she were just having a normal case of pre-nuptial jitters such a question might frighten her out of a really good marriage .
Besides , in all honesty , I don't know how you can be sure .
I don't know any secret recipe for certainty .
In the fevered , intoxicating , breathless state of being in love the usual signposts that guide you to lasting and satisfying relationships are sometimes obscured .
I knew of but one test and I threw it out to her for what it was worth .
`` Does he ever bore you '' ? ?
I asked .
`` Bore me '' ? ?
She was shocked .
Oh , no-o ! !
Why , he's so darling and ''
`` I mean '' , I went on ruthlessly , `` when he's not talking about you or himself or the wonders of love , is he interesting ? ?
Does he care about things that matter to you ? ?
Can you visualize being stranded with him on a desert island for years and years and still find him fascinating ? ?
Because , honey , I thought silently , there are plenty of desert islands in every marriage -- long periods when you're hopelessly stranded , together .
And if you bore each other then , heaven help you .
She came back the other day to reassure me .
She has studied and observed and she is convinced that her young man is going to be endlessly enchanting .
She asked if I had other advice and , heady with success , I rushed it in , I hope not too late .
Be friends with your mother-in-law .
Jokes , cartoons and cynics to the contrary , mothers-in-law make good friends .
I do not know Dr. Wilson Sneed well .
But I was deeply moved by his letter of resignation as rector of St. Luke's Church in Atlanta .
It was the cry of not just one heart ; ;
it spoke for many in the clergy , I suspect .
The pulpit is a lonely place .
Who stops to think of that ? ?
Imagine the searching and the prayer that lay behind the letter the rector wrote after almost a decade of service to this majestic church .
`` Such a church needs vigor and vitality in its rector and one man has only so much of these endowments '' , he told his members .
A minister should not stay `` beyond the time that his leadership should benefit '' his church , he wrote , `` for he becomes ordinary .
''
And so the young minister resigned , to go and study and pray , having never passed a day , he told his parishioners , when `` I did not gain from you far more than I ever gave to you '' .
His very honest act called up the recent talk I had with another minister , a modest Methodist , who said : `` I feel so deeply blessed by God when I can give a message of love and comfort to other men , and I would have it no other way : and it is unworthy to think of self .
But oh , how I do sometimes need just a moment of rest , and peace , in myself '' .
A man who gives himself to God and to the believers of his church takes upon himself a life of giving .
He does not expect to get great riches or he would not have chosen to answer the call to preach .
The good ones are not motivated to seek vainly , nor are they disposed to covet comfort , or they would have been led to fields that offer comfort and feed vanity .
Theirs is a sacrificial life by earthly standards .
Yet we who lean upon such a man and draw strength from him and expect interpretation of the infinite through him -- we who readily accept his sacrifice as our due , we of the congregations are the first to tell him what is in our minds instead of listening to what is in his soul .
We press him to conform to our comfortable conceptions and not to bruise our satisfactions with his word , and God's .
We do not defeat the good ones with this cruelty , but we add to their burden , while expecting them to bestow saintliness upon us in return for ostentatious church attendance and a few bucks a week , American cash .
If we break the minister to our bit , we are buying back our own sins .
If he won't break , we add to the stress he bears .
And a minister of all men is most conscious that he is mere man -- prone to the stresses that earthly humanity is heir to .
We expect him to be noble , and to make us so -- yet he knows , and tries to tell us , how very humble man must be .
We expect bestowal of God's love through him .
But how little love we give him .
The church truly is not a rest home for saints , but a hospital for sinners .
Yet every Sunday we sinners go to that emergency room to receive first aid , and we leave unmindful that the man who ministered to us is a human being who suffers , too .
Mr. Podger always particularly enjoyed the last night of each summer at Loon Lake .
The narrow fringe of sadness that ran around it only emphasized the pleasure .
The evening was not always spent in the same way .
This year , on a night cool with the front of September moving in , but with plenty of summer still about , the Podgers were holding a neighborhood gathering in the Pod .
The little cottage was bursting with people of all ages .
In the midst of it all , Mr. Podger came out on the Pod porch , alone .
He had that day attended a country auction , and he had come back with a prize .
The prize was an old-fashioned , woven cloth hammock , complete with cross-top pillow , fringed side pieces , and hooks for hanging .
Mrs. Podger had obligingly pushed things around on the porch to make room for it , and there it was , slung in a vine-shaded corner , the night breeze rippling its fringe with a slow , caressing movement .
Mr. Podger sat down in it , pushed himself back and forth in one or two slow , rhythmic motions , and then swung his feet up into it .
He closed his eyes and let the unintelligible drift of voices sweep pleasantly over him .
Suddenly one young voice rose above the others .
`` But '' , it said , `` do you always know when you're happy '' ? ?
The voice sank back into the general tangle of sound , but the question stayed in Mr. Podger's mind .
Here , in the cool , autumn-touched evening , Mr. Podger mentally retraced a day that had left him greatly contented and at peace .
It had begun with the blue jay feather .
Walking along the lake before breakfast , Mr. Podger had seen the feather , and the bird that had lost it in flight .
The winging spread of blue had gone on , calling harshly , into the wood .
The small shaft of blue had drifted down and come to rest at his feet .
All day long Mr. Podger , who was a straw-hat man in the summer , had worn the feather in the band of his broad-brimmed sunshield .
Would a blue feather in a man's hat make him happy all day ? ?
Hardly .
But it was something to have seen it floating down through the early morning sunshine , linking the blue of the sky with the blue of the asters by the lake .
Then , since the auction was being held nearby , he had walked to it .
And there , on the way , had been the box turtle , that slow , self-contained , world-ignoring relic of pre-history , bent , for reasons best known to itself , on crossing the road .
It was doing very well , too , having reached the center , and was pursuing its way with commendable singleness of purpose when Mr. Podger saw hazard approaching in the shape of a flashy little sports car .
Would the driver see the turtle ? ?
Would he take pains to avoid it ? ?
Mr. Podger took no chances .
Taking off his hat and signaling the driver with it , Mr. Podger stepped into the road , lifted the surprised turtle and consummated its road-crossing with what must have been a breath-taking suddenness .
The turtle immediately withdrew into its private council room to study the phenomenon .
But Mr. Podger and the driver of the sports car waved at each other .
Here in the cool darkness Mr. Podger could still feel the warmth of midday , could still see the yellow butterflies dancing over the road , could still see the friendly grin on the young , sun-browned face as the driver looked back over his shoulder for a moment before the car streaked out of sight .
Where was the driver now ? ?
What was he doing ? ?
And the turtle ? ?
Mr. Podger smiled .
For a few brief minutes they had all been part of one little drama .
The three would never meet again , but for some reason or other Mr. Podger was sure he would always remember the incident .
Then there had been the auction itself .
Mr. Podger heard again ; ;
at will , the voice of the auctioneer , the voices of the bidders , and finally the small boy who had been so interested in Mr. Podger's hammock purchase .
`` I like them things , too '' , he had said .
`` We got one at home .
You know what ? ?
If you're lyin' out in the hammock at night , and it gets kinda cool -- you know -- you just take these sides with the fringe on -- see -- and wrap 'em right over you .
I do it , lots o' times -- I like to lie in a hammock at night , by myself , when it's all quiet .
The wind moves it a little bit -- you know .
''
Mr. Podger had thanked him gravely , and now he made use of the advice .
As he pulled the fringed sides up and made himself into a cocoon , Mr. Podger saw that thin , attractive , freckled little face again , and hoped that the boy , too , was lying in a cool , fringed-wrapped quiet .
Alacrity , the Podger cat , came by the hammock , rubbed her back briefly against it , and then , sure of a welcome , hopped up .
She remarked that she found the night wind a little chilly , and Mr. Podger took her inside the fringe .
Soon her purring rivaled the chirping of the tree crickets , rivaled the hum of voices from inside the Pod .
Mr. Podger was just adding this to his pictures of the day when the screen door opened and Pam burst out .
`` Dad '' ! !
She said .
`` It's getting so chilly we've lighted a fire , and we're going to tell a round robin story -- a nice , scary one .
We need you to start it .
Why are you out here all by yourself ? ?
Aren't you happy '' ? ?
Mr. Podger opened his cocoon and emerged , tucking Alacrity under his arm to bring her in by the fire .
`` Of course I am '' , he said .
`` Never happier in my life .
I just came out here to know it '' .
Dallas
As the South begins another school year , national and even world attention is directed at the region's slow progress toward racial equality in the public schools .
Desegregation is beginning in two more important Southern cities -- Dallas and Atlanta .
In each city civic and education leaders have been working hard to get public opinion prepared to accept the inevitability of equal treatment .
These programs emphasize the acceptance of biracial classrooms peacefully .
The programs do not take sides on the issue itself .
They point out simply that `` it is the law of the land '' .
The two cities have the examples of Little Rock and New Orleans to hold up as warnings against resorting to violence to try to stop the processes of desegregation .
Even better , they have the examples of Nashville and Houston to hold up as peaceful and progressive programs .
In each case there was an initial act of violence .
In Nashville , a school was dynamited .
In Houston , there were a few incidents of friction between whites and Negroes , none of which were serious .
In each city quick public reaction and fast action by the city government halted the threats of more serious incidents .
The Nashville plan , incidentally , has become recognized as perhaps the most acceptable and thus the most practical to put into effect in the troubled South .
It is a `` stair-step '' plan , in which desegregation begins in the first grade .
Each year another grade is added to the process , until finally all 12 grades are integrated .
The schedules are flexible so that the program can be accelerated as the public becomes more tolerant or realizes that it is something that has to be done , `` so why not now '' .
The program has worked well in both Nashville and Houston .
It met a serious rebuff in New Orleans , where the two schools selected for the first moves toward integration were boycotted by white parents .
Another attempt will be made this year in New Orleans to resume the program .
Generally , throughout the South , there is a growing impatience with the pattern of violence with which every step of desegregation is met .
Perhaps the most eloquent move toward removal of racial barriers has been in Dallas .
During the summer , Negroes began quietly patronizing previously segregated restaurants and lunch counters in downtown retail establishments .
It was part of a citywide move toward full integration .
So successful has been this program , worked out by white and Negro civic leaders , that further extensions are expected in the next few months .
Hotels , for example , are ready to let down the bars .
Already , at least one hotel has been quietly taking reservations on a nonracial basis .
Several conventions have been held in recent months in hotels on a nonsegregated basis .
This is a radical change in attitude from the conditions which prevailed several years ago , when a series of bombings was directed against Negroes who were moving into previously all-white neighborhoods of Dallas .
It is also symptomatic of a change in attitude which appears to be spreading all across the South .
Southern whites themselves are realizing that they had been wrong in using violence to try to stop Negroes from claiming equal rights .
They insist they are ashamed of such violence and intimidation as occurred in Alabama when the Freedom Riders sought to break down racial discrimination in local bus depots .
All across the South there are signs that racial violence is finding less approval among whites who themselves would never take active part but might once have shown a tolerant attitude toward it .
There are many causes for this change .
One of the most important is economic .
Business leaders are aware now that they suffer greatly from any outbreak of violence .
They are putting strong pressure on their police departments to keep order .
In the past these same Southerners were inclined to look the other way .
And as the businessmen have begun to act , a real sense of co-operation has sprung up .
This co-operation has emboldened other Southern whites to add their voices to demands for peaceable accommodation .
They realize that by acting in concert , rather than individually , they will not be picked out as objects of retaliation -- economic and otherwise .
Since moving from a Chicago suburb to Southern California a few months ago , I've been introduced to a new game called Lanesmanship .
Played mostly on the freeways around Los Angeles , it goes like this :
A driver cruising easily at 70 m.p.h. in Lane A of a four-lane freeway spies an incipient traffic jam ahead .
Traffic in the next lane appears to be moving more smoothly so he pokes a tentative fender into Lane B , which is heavily populated by cars also moving at 70 m.p.h. .
The adjacent driver in Lane B has three choices open to him .
He can ( 1 ) point his car resolutely at the invading fender and force the other driver back into Lane A ; ;
( 2 ) slow down and permit the ambivalent driver to change lanes ; ;
or ( 3 ) alternately accelerate and decelerate , thus keeping the first driver guessing as to his intentions , thereby making a fascinating sport of the whole affair .
The really remarkable thing to me is that most California natives unhesitatingly elect to slow down and permit the invading car free access .
Whether or not this is done out of enlightened self-preservation , I don't know .
But it is done , consistently and I'm both surprised and impressed .
This could never happen in my native Chicago .
There such soggy acquiesence would be looked upon as a sure sign of deteriorating manhood .
In Chicago , the driver cut out would likely jam his gas pedal to the floor in an effort to force the other car back .
Failing this , he would pull alongside at the first opportunity and shake his fist threateningly .
This negative explanation of courtesy on the freeways , however , does an injustice to Southern California drivers .
At the risk of losing my charge-a-plate at Marshall Field and Company , I would like to challenge an old and hallowed stereotype .
After three months of research , I can state unequivocally that Los Angeles drivers are considerably more courteous and competent than any other drivers I've ever encountered .
During one recent day of driving about Los Angeles there were actually a dozen occasions when oncoming drivers stopped an entire lane of traffic to permit me to pull out of an impossible side street .
Miami , Fla. , March 17 .
An out-of-town writer came up to Paul Richards today and asked the Oriole manager if he thought his ball club would be improved this year .
Now Richards , of course , is known as a deep thinker as baseball managers go .
He can often make the complex ridiculously simple , and vice versa .
This happened to be vice versa , but even so , the answer was a masterpiece .
`` It's a whole lot easier '' , he said , `` to increase the population of Nevada , than it is to increase the population of New York city '' .
And with that he walked off to give instruction to a rookie pitcher .
`` That is undoubtedly a hell of a quote '' , said the writer , scratching his head .
`` Now , if I can just figure out what he's talking about , I'll use it '' .
Two spots open
This was just Richard's way of saying that last year the Birds opened spring training with a lot of jobs wide open .
Some brilliant rookies nailed them down , so that this spring just two spots , left and right field , are really up for grabs .
It should be easier to plug two spots than it was to fill the wholesale lots that were open last year , but so far it hasn't worked that way .
This angle of just where the Orioles can look for improvement this year is an interesting one .
You'd never guess it from the way they've played so far this spring , but there remains a feeling among some around here that the Orioles still have a chance to battle for the pennant in 1961 .
Obviously , if this club is going to move from second to first in the American League , it will have to show improvement someplace .
Where can that improvement possibly come from ? ?
You certainly can't expect the infield to do any better than it did last year .
Robby could be better
.
Brooks Robinson is great , and it is conceivable that he'll do even better in 1961 than he did in 1960 .
You can't expect it , though .
Robby's performance last year was tremendous .
It's the same with Ron Hansen and Jim Gentile .
If they do as well as they did in 1960 there can be no complaint .
They shouldn't be asked to carry any more of the burden .
Hansen will be getting a late spring training start , which might very well set him back .
He got off to an exceptional start last season , and under the circumstances probably won't duplicate it .
There are some clubs which claim they learned something about pitching to him last year .
They don't expect to stop him , just slow him down some with the bat .
He'll still be a top player , they concede , because he's got a great glove and the long ball going for him .
But they expect to reduce his over-all offensive production .
Breeding might move up
.
Gentile can hardly do better than drive in 98 runs .
Don't ask him more .
I have a hunch Marv Breeding might move up a notch .
But even so , he had a good year in 1960 and won't do too much better .
So , all in all , the infield can't be expected to supply the added improvement to propel the Birds from second to first .
And the pitching will also have trouble doing better .
Richards got a great performance out of his combination of youth and experience last season .
Where , then , can we look for improvement ? ?
`` From Triandos , Brandt and Walker '' , answers Richards .
`` They're the ones we can expect to do better '' .
The man is right , and at this time , indications are that these three are ready for better seasons .
Triandos hasn't proved it yet , but he says he's convinced his thumb is all right .
He jammed it this spring and has had to rest it , but he says the old injury hasn't bothered him .
If he can bounce back with one of those 25 home runs years , the club will have to be better off offensively .
I'm still not convinced , though , I'll have to see more of him before predicting that big year for him .
Hank Foiles , backed up by Frank House who will be within calling distance in the minors , make up better second line catching than the Birds had all last year , but Gus is still that big man you need when you start talking pennant .
To me , Brandt looks as though he could be in for a fine year .
He hasn't played too much , because Richards has been working on him furiously in batting practice .
He's hitting the ball hard , in the batting cage , and his whole attitude is improved over this time last year .
When he came to Baltimore , he was leaving a team which was supposed to win the National League pennant , and he was joining what seemed to be a second division American League club .
He was down , hard to talk to , and far too nonchalant on the field .
As of now , that all seems behind him .
He's been entirely different all spring .
And Walker looks stronger , seems to be throwing better than he did last year .
Let him bounce back , and he could really set up the staff .
So , if the Orioles are to improve , Brandt , Triandos and Walker will have to do it .
So far the platoons on left and right fielders don't seem capable of carrying the load .
Of course , this isn't taking into consideration the population of Nevada and New York city , but it's the way things look from here at this point .
Is the mother of an `` autistic '' child at fault ? ?
( The `` autistic '' child is one who seems to lack a well-defined sense of self .
He tends to treat himself and other people as if they were objects -- and sometimes he treats objects as if they were people .
) Did his mother make him this way ? ?
Some people believe she did .
We think differently .
We believe that autism , like so many other conditions of defect and deviation , is to a large extent inborn .
A mother can help a child adapt to his difficulties .
Sometimes she can -- to a large extent -- help him overcome them .
But we don't think she creates them .
We don't think she can make her child defective , emotionally disturbed or autistic .
The mother of a difficult child can do a great deal to help her own child and often , by sharing her experiences , she can help other mothers with the same problem .
Since little is known about autism , and almost nothing has been written for the layman , we'd like to share one experienced mother's comments .
She wrote :
total disinterest
`` .
As the mother of an autistic child who is lacking in interest and enthusiasm about almost anything , I have to manipulate my son's fingers for him when he first plays with a new toy .
He wants me to do everything for him .
`` You don't believe that autistic children become autistic because of something that happens to them or because of the way their mother treats them .
But I do and my psychiatrist does , too .
I know , that my son wants control and direction , but being autistic myself I cannot give full control or direction .
`` One thing I notice which I have seldom heard mentioned .
This is that autistic people don't enjoy physical contact with others -- for instance , my children and I .
When I hold my son he stiffens his whole body in my arms until he is as straight and stiff as a board .
He pushes and straightens himself as if he can't stand the feeling of being held .
Physical contact is uncomfortable for him '' ! !
This mother is quite correct .
As a rule , the autistic child doesn't enjoy physical contact with others .
Parents have to find other ways of comforting him .
For the young child this may be no more than providing food , light or movement .
As he grows older it may be a matter of providing some accustomed object ( his `` magic '' thing ) .
Or certain words or rituals that child and adult go through may do the trick .
The answer is different for each autistic child , but for most there is an answer .
Only ingenuity will uncover it .
What future holds
`` Dear Doctors : We learned this year that our older son , Daniel , is autistic .
We did not accept the diagnosis at once , but gradually we are coming to .
Fortunately , there is a nursery school which he has been able to attend , with a group of normal children .
`` I try to treat Daniel as if he were normal , though of course I realize he is far from that at present .
What I do is to try to bring him into contact with reality as much as possible .
I try to give him as many normal experiences as possible .
`` What is your experience with autistic children ? ?
How do they turn out later '' ? ?
Many autistic children grow up to lead relatively normal lives .
Certainly , most continue to lack a certain warmth in communication with other people , but many adjust to school , even college , to jobs and even to marriage and parenthood .
Single-color use
question
-- A first grader colors pictures one solid color , everything -- sky , grass , boy , wagon , etc. .
When different colors are used , she is just as likely to color trees purple , hair green , etc. .
The other children in the class use this same coloring book and do a fairly good job with things their proper color .
Should I show my daughter how things should be colored ? ?
She is an aggressive , nervous child .
Is a relaxed home atmosphere enough to help her outgrow these traits ? ?
Answer
-- Her choice of one color means she is simply enjoying the motor act of coloring , without having reached the point of selecting suitable colors for different objects .
This immature use of crayons may suggest that she is a little immature for the first grade .
No , coloring isn't exactly something you teach a child .
You sometimes give them a little demonstration , a little guidance , and suggestions about staying inside the lines .
But most learn to color and paint as and when they are ready with only a very little demonstration .
Seen in decorating circles of late is a renewed interest in an old art : embroidery .
Possibly responsible for this is the incoming trend toward multicolor schemes in rooms , which seems slated to replace the one-color look to which we have been accustomed .
Just as a varitinted Oriental rug may suggest the starting point for a room scheme , so may some of the newest versions of embroidery .
One such , in fact , is a rug .
Though not actually crewel embroidery , it has that look with its over-stitched raised pattern in blue , pink , bronze and gold and a sauterne background .
The twirled , stylized design of winding stems and floral forms strongly suggests the embroidered patterns used so extensively for upholstery during the Jacobean period in England .
Traditional crewel embroidery which seems to be appearing more frequently this fall than in the past few years is still available in this country .
The work is executed in England ( by hand ) and can be worked in any desired design and color .
Among some recent imports were seat covers for one series of dining room chairs on which were depicted salad plates overflowing with tomatoes and greens and another set on which a pineapple was worked in naturalistic color .
Chinese influence
For a particularly fabulous room which houses a collection of fine English Chippendale furniture , fabric wall panels were embroidered with a typically Chinese-inspired design of this revered Eighteenth Century period .
Since the work is done by hand , the only limitation , it is said , `` is that of human conception '' .
Modern embroidered panels , framed and meant to be hung on the wall , are another aspect of this trend .
These have never gone out of style in Scandinavian homes and now seem to be reappearing here and there in shops which specialize in handicrafts .
An amateur decorator might try her hand at a pair during the long winter evenings , and , by picking up her living room color scheme , add a decorative do-it-yourself note to the room .
California Democrats this weekend will take the wraps off a 1962 model statewide campaign vehicle which they have been quietly assembling in a thousand district headquarters , party clubrooms and workers' backyards .
They seem darned proud of it .
And they're confident that the GOP , currently assailed by dissensions within the ranks , will be impressed by the purring power beneath the hood of this grassroots-fueled machine .
Their meeting at San Francisco is nominally scheduled as a conference of the California Democratic Council directorate .
But it will include 200-odd officeholders , organization leaders and `` interested party people '' .
Out of this session may come : 1
-- Plans for a dramatic , broad-scale party rally in Los Angeles next December that would enlist top-drawer Democrats from all over the country .
2
-- Blueprints for doubling the CDC's present 55,000 enrollment .
3
-- Arrangements for a statewide pre-primary endorsing convention in Fresno next Jan. 26-28 .
4
-- And proposals for a whole series of lesser candidate-picking conventions in the state's 38 new Congressional districts .
At the head of the CDC is an unorthodox , 39-year-old amateur politico , Thomas B. Carvey Jr. , whose normal profession is helping develop Hughes Aircraft's moon missiles .
He's approached his Democratic duties in hard-nosed engineering fashion .
Viewed from afar , the CDC looks like a rather stalwart political pyramid : its elected directorate fans out into an array of district leaders and standing committees , and thence into its component clubs and affiliated groups -- 500 or so .
Much of its strength stems from the comfortable knowledge that every `` volunteer '' Democratic organization of any consequence belongs to the Aj .
Moreover , the entire state Democratic hierarchy , from Gov. Brown on down to the county chairmen , also participates in this huge operation .
Contrarily , Republican `` volunteers '' go their separate ways , and thus far have given no indication that they'd be willing to join forces under a single directorate , except in the most loose-knit fashion .
Carvey believes that reapportionment , which left many Democratic clubs split by these new district boundaries , actually will increase CDC membership .
Where only one club existed before , he says , two will flourish henceforth .
Biggest organizational problem , he adds , is setting up CDC units in rock-ribbed Democratic territory .
Paradoxically the council is weakest in areas that register 4- and 5-to-1 in the party's favor , strongest where Democrats and Republicans compete on a fairly even basis .
Like most Democratic spokesmen , Carvey predicts 1962 will be a tremendously `` partisan year '' .
Hence the attention they're lavishing on the Aj .
In all probability , the council will screen and endorse candidates for the Assembly and for Congress , and then strive to put its full weight behind these pre-primary favorites .
This bodes heated contests in several districts where claims have already been staked out by Democratic hopefuls who don't see eye-to-eye with the Aj .
Naturally , the statewide races will provide the major test for the expanding council .
Shunted aside by the rampant organizers for John F. Kennedy last year , who relegated it to a somewhat subordinate role in the Presidential campaign , the CDC plainly intends to provide the party's campaign muscle in 1962 .
There is evidence that it will be happily received by Gov. Brown and the other constitutional incumbents .
Carvey considers that former Vice President Nixon would be Brown's most formidable foe , with ex-Gov. Knight a close second .
But the rest of the GOP gubernatorial aspirants don't worry him very much .
In his CDC work , Carvey has the close-in support and advice of one of California's shrewdest political strategists : former Democratic National Committeeman Paul Ziffren , who backed him over a Northland candidate espoused by Atty. Gen. Stanley Mosk .
( Significantly , bitter echoes of the 1960 power struggle that saw Mosk moving into the national committee post over Ziffren are still audible in party circles .
)
note : We've just received an announcement of the 54th Assembly district post-reapportionment organizing convention Wednesday night in South Pasadena's War Memorial Bldg. , which graphically illustrates the CDC's broad appeal .
State Sen. Dick Richards will keynote ; ;
state and county committeemen , CDC directors and representatives , members of 16 area clubs , and `` all residents '' have been invited .
This is going to be a language lesson , and you can master it in a few minutes .
It is a short course in Communese .
It works with English , Russian , German , Hungarian or almost any other foreign tongue .
Once you learn how to translate Communese , much of each day's deluge of news will become clearer .
At least , I have found it so .
For some compulsive reason which would have fascinated Dr. Freud , Communists of all shapes and sizes almost invariably impute to others the very motives which they harbor themselves .
They accuse their enemies of precisely the crimes of which they themselves are most guilty .
President Kennedy's latest warning to the Communist world that the United States will build up its military strength to meet any challenge in Berlin or elsewhere was , somewhat surprisingly , reported in full text or fairly accurate excerpts behind the Iron Curtain .
Then the Communese reply came back from many mouthpieces with striking consistency .
Now listen closely :
Moscow radio from the Literary Gazette in English to England :
`` President Kennedy once again interpreted the Soviet proposals , to sign a peace treaty with Germany as a threat , as part of the world menace allegedly looming over the countries of capitalism .
Evidently the war drum beating and hysteria so painstakingly being stirred up in the West have been planned long in advance .
The West Berlin crisis is being played up artificially because it is needed by the United States to justify its arms drive '' .
The Soviet news agency TASS datelined from New York in English to Europe :
`` President Kennedy's enlargement of the American military program was welcomed on Wall Street as a stimulus to the American munitions industry .
When the stock exchange opened this morning , many dealers were quick to purchase shares in Douglas , Lockheed and United Aircraft and prices rose substantially .
Over 4 million shares were sold , the highest figures since early June .
( Quotations follow '' .
)
TASS datelined Los Angeles , in English to Europe :
`` Former Vice President Nixon came out in support of President Kennedy's program for stepping up the arms race .
He also demanded that Kennedy take additional measures to increase international tension : specifically to crush the Cuban revolution , resume nuclear testing , resist more vigorously admission of China to its lawful seat in the United Nations , and postpone non-military programs at home '' .
TASS from Moscow in English to Europe :
`` The American press clamored for many days promising President Kennedy would reply to the most vital domestic and foreign problems confronting the United States .
In fact , the world heard nothing but sabre-rattling , the same exercises which proved futile for the predecessors of the current President .
If there were no West Berlin problem , imperialist quarters would have invented an excuse for stepping up the armaments race to try to solve the internal and external problems besetting the United States and its NATO partners .
Washington apparently decided to use an old formula , by injecting large military appropriations to speed the slow revival of the U.S. economy after a prolonged slump '' .
And now , for Communist listeners and readers :
Moscow Radio in Russian to the USSR :
`` The U.S. President has shown once again that the United States needs the fanning of the West Berlin crisis to justify the armaments race .
As was to be expected Kennedy's latest speech was greeted with enthusiasm by revenge-seeking circles in Bonn , where officials of the West German government praised it '' .
Moscow Novosti article in Russian , datelined London :
`` U.S. pressure on Britain to foster war hysteria over the status of West Berlin has reached its apogee .
British common sense is proverbial .
The present attempts of the politicians to contaminate ordinary Britons shows that this British common sense is unwilling to pull somebody else's chestnuts out of the fire by new military adventures '' .
East Berlin ( Communist ) radio in German to Germany :
`` A better position for negotiations is the real point of this speech .
Kennedy knows the West will not wage war for West Berlin , neither conventional nor nuclear , and negotiations will come as certainly as the peace treaty .
Whenever some Washington circles were really ready for talks to eliminate friction they have always succumbed to pressure from the war clique in the Pentagon and in Bonn .
In Kennedy's speech are cross currents , sensible ones and senseless ones , reflecting the great struggle of opinions between the President's advisers and the political and economic forces behind them .
Well , dear listeners , despite all the shouting , there will be no war over West Berlin '' .
Moscow TASS in Russian datelined Sochi :
`` Chairman Khrushchev received the U.S. President's disarmament adviser , John McCloy .
Their conversation and dinner passed in a warm and friendly atmosphere '' .
Now , to translate from the Communese , this means :
The `` West Berlin '' crisis is really an East Berlin crisis .
The crisis was artificially stirred up by the Kremlin ( Wall Street ) and the Red Army ( Pentagon ) egged on by the West Germans ( East Germans ) .
The reason was to speed up domestic production in the USSR , which Khrushchev promised upon grabbing power , and try to end the permanent recession in Russian living standards .
Chairman Khrushchev ( Kennedy ) rattles his rockets ( sabre ) in order to cure his internal ills and to strengthen his negotiating position .
His advisers in the Politburo ( White House ) are engaged in a great struggle of opinions , so he is not always consistent .
The Soviet Union will fight neither a conventional nor a nuclear war over Berlin , and neither will its Warsaw Pact allies .
The West has no intention of attacking Russia .
Chairman Khrushchev and John McCloy had a terrible row at Sochi .
See , Communese is easy -- once you get onto it .
Aug. 4 , 1821 , nearly a century after Benjamin Franklin founded the Pennsylvania Gazette -- a century during which it had undergone several changes in ownership and a few brief suspensions in publication -- this paper made its first appearance as the Saturday Evening Post .
The country was now full of Gazettes and Samuel C. Atkinson and Charles Alexander , who had just taken over Franklin's old paper , desired a more distinctive name .
When founded by Franklin the Gazette was a weekly family newspaper and under its new name its format remained that of a newspaper but its columns gradually contained more and more fiction , poetry , and literary essays .
In the middle of the century , with a circulation of 90,000 , the Post was one of the most popular weeklies in the country .
But during the second half of the century its fortunes reached a low point and when in 1897 Cyrus H. K. Curtis purchased it -- `` paper , type , and all '' -- for $1,000 it was a 16-page weekly filled with unsigned fiction and initialed miscellany , and with only some 2,000 subscribers .
Little more than a fine old name , valuable principally because of the Franklin tradition , the Saturday Evening Post was slow to revive .
But Curtis poured over $1 million into it and in time it again became one of the most popular weeklies of the country .
`` Remember the French railroad baron who was going to take me floating down the Nile '' ? ?
`` Remember the night Will Rogers filled a tooth for me between numbers '' ? ?
`` Sure , we met a barrel of rich men but it's hard to find the real thing when you're young , beautiful and the toast of two continents '' `` Remember Fanny Brice promised my mother she would look after me on the road '' ? ?
All this remembering took place the other night when I had supper with the Ziegfeld Girls at the Beverly Hills Club .
A quarter of a century has gone by since this bevy of walking dreams sashayed up and down the staircases of the old New Amsterdam Theater , N.Y. .
But watching Mrs. Cyril Ring , Berniece Dalton Janssen , Mrs. Robert Jarvis , Mrs. Walter Adams order low-calorie seafood , no bread , I could see the Ziegfeld Girls of 1920 were determined to be glamorous grandmothers of 1961 .
I was anxious to hear about those dazzling days on the Great White Way .
All I could remember was Billie Dove pasted over the ceiling of my big brother's room .
`` Billie was really beautiful '' ! !
Exclaimed Vera Forbes Adams , batting lovely big eyes behind glitter rimmed glasses .
Sing Sing's prisoner strike was motivated by a reasonable purpose , a fair break from parole boards .
But once the strike trend hits hoosegows , there is no telling how far it may go .
Inmates might even demand the 34-hour week , all holidays off and fringe benefits including state contributions toward lawyers' fees .
Some day we might see a Federation of Prison and Jail Inmates , with a leader busily trying to organize reformatory occupants , defendants out on bail , convicts opposed to probation officers , etc. .
A three-day confinement week , with a month's vacation and shorter hours all around could be an ultimate demand from cell occupants of the nation , with fringe benefits including : 1 .
Wider space between iron bars and agreement by prison boards to substitute rubber in 20 per cent of metal .
2 .
An agreement allowing convicts to pass on type of locks used on prison doors .
In case of a deadlock between prison boards and inmates , a federal arbitration board to include a `` lifer '' and two escapees should decide the issue .
3 .
Specific broadening of travel rights .
4 .
The right to leave the hoosegow any time to see a lawyer instead of waiting for a lawyer to make a trip to the prison .
5 .
Recognition of Prisoners Union rule that no member of an iron or steel workers union be permitted to repair a sawed-off bar without approval and participation of representative of the cell occupant .
6 .
No warden or guard to touch lock , key or doorknob except when accompanied by a prisoners' committee with powers of veto .
7 .
State and federal approval of right to walk out at any time when so voted by 51 per cent of the prisoners .
The death of Harold A. Stevens , oldest of the Stevens brothers , famed operators of baseball , football and race track concessions , revived again the story of one of the greatest business successes in history .
Harold , with brothers Frank , Joe and William , took over at the death of their father , Harry M. Stevens , who put a few dollars into a baseball program , introduced the `` hot dog '' and paved the way for creation of a catering empire .
Family loyalties and cooperative work have been unbroken for generations .
IBM has a machine that can understand spoken words and talk back .
Nevertheless , it will seem funny to have to send for a mechanic to improve conversation .
Rembrandt's `` Aristotle Contemplating Bust of Homer '' brought $2,300,000 at auction the other night .
Both Aristotle and Homer may in spirit be contemplating `` bust '' of the old-fashioned American dollar .
The owner of the painting got it for $750,000 , sold it for $500,000 in a market crash , and bought it back for $590,000 .
Apologies are in order from anybody who said , `` Are you sure you're not making a mistake '' ? ?
`` Wagon Train '' is reported the No. 1 TV show .
After all , where else can the public see a wagon these days ? ?
Lucius Beebe's book , `` Mr. Pullman's Elegant Palace Car '' , fills us with nostalgia , recalling days when private cars and Pullmans were extra wonderful , with fine woodwork , craftsmanship in construction , deep carpets and durable upholstery .
Beebe tells of one private car that has gold plumbing .
Jay Gould kept a cow on one deluxer .
Washington
-- Rep. Frelinghuysen , R-5th Dist. , had a special reason for attending the reception at the Korean Embassy for Gen. Chung Hee Park , the new leader of South Korea .
Not only is Mr. Frelinghuysen a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , but he is the grandson of the man who was instrumental in opening relations between the United States and Korea , Frederick T. Frelinghuysen , Secretary of State in the administration of Chester A. Arthur .
In addition Rep. Frelinghuysen's brother Harry was on the Korean desk of the State Department in World War 2 .
Next year is the 80th anniversary of the signing of the treaty between Korea and the United States and experts in Seoul are trying to find the correspondence between Frederick Frelinghuysen , who was Secretary of State in 1883 and 1884 , and Gen. Lucius Foote , who was the first minister to Korea .
They enlisted the help of the New Jersey congressman , who has been able to trace the letters to the national archives , where they are available on microfilm .
On the job
A top official of the New Frontier who kept a record of his first weeks on the job here gives this report of his experiences :
In his first six weeks in office he presided over 96 conferences , attended 35 official breakfasts and dinners , studied and signed 285 official papers and personally took 312 telephone calls .
In addition , he said , he has answered more than 400 messages of congratulations which led him to the comment that he himself had decided he wouldn't send another congratulatory message for the rest of his life .
Sen. Case Aj , has received a nice `` thank you '' note from a youngster he appointed to the Air Force Academy in Colorado .
Air Force life is great , the cadet wrote , `` though the fourth-class system is no fun '' .
He invited Mr. Case to stop by to say hello if he ever visited the academy and then added that he was on the managerial staff of the freshman football team
`` We have just returned from Roswell , N.M. , where we were defeated , 34 to 9 '' , the young man noted .
`` We have a tremendous amount of talent -- but we lack cohesion '' .
Kind Mr. Sam
Among the many stories about the late Speaker Rayburn is one from Rep. Dwyer , R-6th Dist. .
Mrs. Dwyer's husband , M. Joseph Dwyer , was taking a 10-year-old boy from Union County on the tour of the Capitol during the final weeks of the last session .
They ran across Mr. Rayburn and the youngster expressed a desire to get the Speaker's autograph .
Mr. Dwyer said that although it was obvious that Mr. Rayburn was not well he stopped , gave the youngster his autograph , asked where he was from and expressed the hope that he would enjoy his visit to Congress .
Two days later Mr. Rayburn left Washington for the last time .
The 350th anniversary of the King James Bible is being celebrated simultaneously with the publishing today of the New Testament , the first part of the New English Bible , undertaken as a new translation of the Scriptures into contemporary English .
Since it was issued in the spring of 1611 , the King James Version has been most generally considered the most poetic and beautiful of all translations of the Bible .
However , Biblical scholars frequently attested to its numerous inaccuracies , as old manuscripts were uncovered and scholarship advanced .
This resulted in revisions of the King James Bible in 1881-85 as the English Revised Version and in 1901 as the American Standard Version .
Then in 1937 America's International Council of Religious Education authorized a new revision , in the light of expanded knowledge of ancient manuscripts and languages .
Undertaken by 32 American scholars , under the chairmanship of Rev. Dr. Luther A. Weigle , former dean of Yale University Divinity School , their studies resulted in the publishing of the Revised Standard Version , 1946-52 .
Not rival
The New English Bible ( the Old Testament and Apocrypha will be published at a future date ) has not been planned to rival or replace the King James Version , but , as its cover states , it is offered `` simply as the Bible to all those who will use it in reading , teaching , or worship '' .
Time , of course will testify whether the new version will have achieved its purpose .
Bible reading , even more so than good classical music , grows in depth and meaning upon repetition .
If this new Bible does not increase in significance by repeated readings throughout the years , it will not survive the ages as has the King James Version .
However , an initial perusal and comparison of some of the famous passages with the same parts of other versions seems to speak well of the efforts of the British Biblical scholars .
One is impressed with the dignity , clarity and beauty of this new translation into contemporary English , and there is no doubt that the meaning of the Bible is more easily understandable to the general reader in contemporary language in the frequently archaic words and phrases of the King James .
For example , in the third chapter of Matthew , verses 13-16 , describing the baptism of Jesus , the 1611 version reads :
`` Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John , to be baptized of him .
`` But John forbad him , saying , I have need to be baptized of thee , and comest thou to me ? ?
`` And Jesus answering said unto him , Suffer it to be so now : for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness .
Then he suffered him .
`` And Jesus , when he was baptized went up straightway out of the water : and lo , the heavens were opened unto him , and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove , and lighting upon him '' .
Clearer meaning
Certainly , the meaning is clearer to one who is not familiar with Biblical teachings , in the New English Bible which reads : `` Then Jesus arrived at Jordan from Galilee , and he came to John to be baptized by him .
John tried to dissuade him .
' Do you come to me ' ? ?
He said ; ;
' I need rather to be baptized by you .
Jesus replied , ' let it be so for the present ; ;
we do well to conform this way with all that God requires .
John then allowed him to come .
After baptism Jesus came up out of the water at once , and at that moment heaven opened ; ;
he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove to alight upon him '' ; ;
( the paragraphing , spelling and punctuation are reproduced as printed in each version .
)
Among the most frequently quoted Biblical sentences are the Beatitudes and yet so few persons , other than scholars , really understand the true meaning of these eight blessings uttered by Jesus at the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount .
To illustrate , the first blessing in the King James Bible reads : `` Blessed are the poor in spirit ; ;
for their's is the kingdom of heaven '' .
The new version states : `` How blest are those who know that they are poor ; ;
the kingdom of Heaven is theirs '' .
Some of the poetic cadence of the older version certainly is lost in the newer one , but almost anyone , with a fair knowledge of the English language , can understand the meaning , without the necessity of interpretation by a Biblical scholar .
To a novice that is significant .
In the second and third chapters of Revelation the new version retains , however , the old phrase `` angel of the church '' which Biblical scholars have previously interpreted as meaning bishop .
This is not contemporary English .
Mostly contemporary
For the most part , however , the new version is contemporary and , as such , should be the means for many to attain a clearer comprehension of the meaning of those words recorded so many hundreds of years ago by the first followers of Christ .
Originally recorded by hand , these words have been copied and recopied , translated and retranslated through the ages .
Discoveries recently made of old Biblical manuscripts in Hebrew and Greek and other ancient writings , some by the early church fathers , in themselves called for a restudy of the Bible .
To have the results recorded in everyday usable English should be of benefit to all who seek the truth .
There is one danger , however .
With contemporary English changing with the rapidity that marks this jet age , some of the words and phrases of the new version may themselves soon become archaic .
The only answer will be continuous study .
The New Testament offered to the public today is the first result of the work of a joint committee made up of representatives of the Church of England , Church of Scotland , Methodist Church , Congregational Union , Baptist Union , Presbyterian Church of England , Churches in Wales , Churches in Ireland , Society of Friends , British and Foreign Bible Society and National Society of Scotland .
Prof. C. H. Dodd , 76 , a Congregational minister and a leading authority on the New Testament , is general director of the project and chairman of the New Testament panel .
Sizzling temperatures and hot summer pavements are anything but kind to the feet .
That is why it is important to invest in comfortable , airy types of shoes .
There are many soft and light shoe leathers available .
Many styles have perforations and an almost weightlessness achieved via unlined leathers .
Softness is found in crushed textures .
Styles run the gamut from slender and tapered with elongated toes to a newer squared toe shape .
Heels place emphasis on the long legged silhouette .
Wine glass heels are to be found in both high and semi-heights .
Stacked heels are also popular on dressy or tailored shoes .
Just the barest suggestion of a heel is found on teenage pumps .
Coolest shade
While white is the coolest summer shade , there are lots of pastel hues along with tintable fabrics that will blend with any wardrobe color .
In the tintable group are high and little heels , squared and oval throats , and shantung-like textures .
Don't overlook the straws this year .
They come in crisp basket weaves in natural honey hues , along with lacey open weaves with a lustre finish in natural , white , black and a whole range of colors .
In the casual field straws feature wedge heels of cork or carved wood in a variety of styles .
For added comfort some of the Italian designed sandals have foam padded cushioning .
The citrus tones popular in clothing are also to be found afoot .
Orange and lemon are considered important as are such pastels as blue and lilac .
In a brighter nautical vein is Ille De France blue .
Contrast trim provides other touches of color .
Spectators in white crush textures dip toe and heel in smooth black , navy and taffy tan .
Designed for ease
Designed for summer comfort are the shoes illustrated .
At the left is a pair of dressy straw pumps in a light , but crisp texture .
In a lacey open weave shoes have a luster finish , braided collar and bow highlight on the squared throat .
At right is a casual style in a crushed unlined white leather .
Flats have a scalloped throat .
An electric toothbrush ( Broxodent ) may soon take its place next to the electric razor in the American bathroom .
The brush moves up and down and is small enough to clean every dental surface , including the back of the teeth .
In addition , the motor has the seal of approval of the Underwriters Laboratories , which means it is safe .
The unit consists of a small motor that goes on as soon as it is plugged in .
The speed is controlled by pressing on the two brake buttons located where the index finger and thumb are placed when holding the motor .
The brushes can be cleaned and sterilized by boiling and are detachable so that every member of the family can have his own .
Most of us brush our teeth by hand .
The same can be said of shaving yet the electric razor has proved useful to many men .
The electric toothbrush moves in a vertical direction , the way dentists recommend .
In addition , it is small enough to get into crevices , jacket and crown margins , malposed anteriors , and the back teeth .
The bristles are soft enough to massage the gums and not scratch the enamel .
It is conceivable that Broxodent could do a better job than ordinary brushing , especially in those who do not brush their teeth properly .
Several dentists and patients with special dental problems have experimented with the device .
The results were good although they are difficult to compare with hand brushing , particularly when the individual knows how to brush his teeth properly .
The electric gadget is most helpful when there are many crowned teeth and in individuals who are elderly , bedfast with a chronic disease , or are handicapped by disorders such as cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy .
But for many of us , it will prove an enjoyable luxury .
It is not as convenient as the old type toothbrush and the paste tends to shimmy off the bristles .
Since the apparatus is new , it requires experimentation and changes in technique .
Turn over
writes : Does numbness in the left hand at night , which awakens the person , indicate brain tumor ? ?
Reply :
no .
This is a common symptom and the cause usually is pressure on the nerve leading to the affected hand .
The pressure may come from muscles , tendons , or bones anywhere from the neck to the hand .
Steam baths
writes : Do steam baths have any health value ? ?
Reply :
No , other than cleaning out the pores and making the sweat glands work harder .
An ordinary hot bath or shower will do the same .
Sewing brings numbness
writes : What makes my hands numb when sewing ? ?
Reply :
There are many possibilities , including poor circulation , a variety of neurological conditions , and functional disorders .
This manifestation may be an early sign of multiple sclerosis or the beginning of sewer's cramp .
Brace for sciatica
writes : Does a brace help in sciatica ? ?
Reply :
A back brace might help , depending upon the cause of sciatica .
