The Mayor said :
`` It didn't come from me .
But as I have said before , if I announce my candidacy , I will have something definite to say about running mates '' .
Boston , June 16
-- A wave of public resentment against corruption in government is rising in Massachusetts .
There is a tangible feeling in the air of revulsion toward politics .
The taxi driver taking the visitor from the airport remarks that politicians in the state are `` all the same '' .
`` It's ' See Joe , see Jim ' '' , he says .
`` The hand is out '' .
A political scientist writes of the growth of `` alienated voters '' , who `` believe that voting is useless because politicians or those who influence politicians are corrupt , selfish and beyond popular control .
These voters view the political process as a secret conspiracy , the object of which is to plunder them '' .
Corruption is hardly a recent development in the city and state that were widely identified as the locale of Edwin O'Connor's novel , `` The Last Hurrah '' .
But there are reasons for the current spotlight on the subject .
A succession of highly publicized scandals has aroused the public within the last year .
Graft in the construction of highways and other public works has brought on state and Federal investigations .
And the election of President Kennedy has attracted new attention to the ethical climate of his home state .
A reader of the Boston newspapers can hardly escape the impression that petty chicanery , or worse , is the norm in Massachusetts public life .
Day after day some new episode is reported .
The state Public Works Department is accused of having spent $8,555 to build a private beach for a state judge on his waterfront property .
An assistant attorney general is directed to investigate .
Washington , June 18
-- Congress starts another week tomorrow with sharply contrasting forecasts for the two chambers .
In the Senate , several bills are expected to pass without any major conflict or opposition .
In the House , the Southern-Republican coalition is expected to make another major stand in opposition to the Administration's housing bill , while more jockeying is expected in an attempt to advance the aid-to-education bill .
The housing bill is now in the House Rules Committee .
It is expected to be reported out Tuesday , but this is a little uncertain .
The panel's action depends on the return of Representative James W. Trimble , Democrat of Arkansas , who has been siding with Speaker Sam Rayburn's forces in the Rules Committee in moving bills to the floor .
Mr. Trimble has been in the hospital but is expected back Tuesday .
Leadership is hopeful
The housing bill is expected to encounter strong opposition by the coalition of Southern Democrats and conservative Republicans .
The Democratic leadership , however , hopes to pass it sometime this week .
The $6,100,000,000 measure , which was passed last Monday by the Senate , provides for forty-year mortgages at low down-payments for moderate-income families .
It also provides for funds to clear slums and help colleges build dormitories .
The education bill appears to be temporarily stalled in the Rules Committee , where two Northern Democratic members who usually vote with the Administration are balking because of the religious controversy .
They are James J. Delaney of Queens and Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. of Massachusetts .
Three groups to meet
What could rescue the bill would be some quick progress on a bill amending the National Defense Education Act of 1958 .
This would provide for long-term Federal loans for construction of parochial and other private-school facilities for teaching science , languages and mathematics .
Mr. Delaney and Mr. O'Neill are not willing to vote on the public-school measure until the defense education bill clears the House Education and Labor Committee .
About half of all Peace Corps projects assigned to voluntary agencies will be carried out by religious groups , according to an official of the corps .
In the $40,000,000 budget that has been submitted for Congressional approval , $26,000,000 would be spent through universities and private voluntary agencies .
Twelve projects proposed by private groups are at the contract-negotiation stage , Gordon Boyce , director of relations with the voluntary agencies , said in a Washington interview .
Six of these were proposed by religious groups .
They will be for teaching , agriculture and community development in Southeast Asia , Africa , the Middle East and Latin America .
Question raised
Interviews with several church leaders have disclosed that this development has raised the question whether the Peace Corps will be able to prevent confusion for church and state over methods , means and goals .
There are a number of ways this could happen , the churchmen pointed out , and here is an example :
Last month in Ghana an American missionary discovered when he came to pay his hotel bill that the usual rate had been doubled .
When he protested , the hotel owner said :
`` Why do you worry ? ?
The U. S. Government is paying for it .
The U. S. Government pays for all its overseas workers '' .
Missionary explains
`` I don't work for the Government '' , the American said .
`` I'm a missionary '' .
The hotel owner shrugged .
`` Same thing '' , he said .
And then , some churchmen remarked , there is a more classical church-state problem :
Can religious agencies use Government funds and Peace Corps personnel in their projects and still preserve the constitutional requirement on separation of church and state ? ?
R. Sargent Shriver Jr. , director of the corps , is certain that they can .
No religious group , he declared in an interview , will receive Peace Corps funds unless it forswears all proselytizing on the project it proposes .
Moscow , June 18
-- At a gay party in the Kremlin for President Sukarno of Indonesia , Premier Khrushchev pulled out his pockets and said , beaming : `` Look , he took everything I had '' ! !
Mr. Khrushchev was jesting in the expansive mood of the successful banker .
Indonesia is one of the twenty under-developed countries of Asia , Africa and Latin America that are receiving Soviet aid .
The Soviet Union and other members of the Communist bloc are rapidly expanding their economic , technical and military assistance to the uncommitted nations .
The Communist countries allocated more than $1,000,000,000 in economic aid alone last year , according to Western estimates .
This was the biggest annual outlay since the Communist program for the under-developed countries made its modest beginning in 1954 .
In 1960 more than 6,000 Communist technicians were present in those countries .
United Nations , N. Y. , June 18
-- A committee of experts has recommended that a country's population be considered in the distribution of professional posts at the United Nations .
This was disclosed today by a responsible source amid intensified efforts by the Soviet Union to gain a greater role in the staff and operation of the United Nations .
One effect of the proposal , which puts a premium on population instead of economic strength , as in the past , would be to take jobs from European nations and give more to such countries as India .
India is the most populous United Nations member with more than 400,000,000 inhabitants .
The new formula for filling staff positions in the Secretariat is one of a number of recommendations made by a panel of eight in a long and detailed report .
The report was completed after nearly eighteen months of work on the question of the organization of the United Nations .
Formula is due this week
The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions is expected to receive the report this week .
The jobs formula is understood to follow these lines :
Each of the organization's ninety-nine members would get two professional posts , such as political affairs officer , a department head or an economist , to start .
Each member would get one post for each 10,000,000 people in its population up to 150,000,000 people or a maximum of fifteen posts .
Each member with a population above 150,000,000 would get one additional post for each additional 30,000,000 people up to an unspecified cut-off point .
Geneva , June 18
-- The three leaders of Laos agreed today to begin negotiations tomorrow on forming a coalition government that would unite the war-ridden kingdom .
The decision was made in Zurich by Prince Boun Oum , Premier of the pro-Western royal Government ; ;
Prince Souvanna Phouma , leader of the nation's neutralists and recognized as Premier by the Communist bloc , and Prince Souphanouvong , head of the pro-Communist Pathet Lao forces .
The latter two are half-brothers .
Their joint statement was welcomed by the Western delegations who will attend tomorrow the nineteenth plenary session of the fourteen-nation conference on the future of Laos .
An agreement among the Princes on a coalition government would ease their task , diplomats conceded .
But no one was overly optimistic .
Tactics studied in Geneva
W. Averell Harriman of the United States , Malcolm MacDonald of Britain , Maurice Couve De Murville , France's Foreign Minister , and Howard C. Green , Canada's Minister of External Affairs , concluded , meanwhile , a round of consultations here on future tactics in the conference .
The pace of the talks has slowed with each passing week .
Princess Moune , Prince Souvanna Phouma's young daughter , read the Princes' statement .
They had a two-hour luncheon together in `` an atmosphere of cordial understanding and relaxation '' , she said .
The three Laotians agreed upon a six-point agenda for their talks , which are to last three days .
The Princess said it was too early to say what would be decided if no agreement was reached after three days .
To deal with principles
The meetings in Zurich , the statement said , would deal only with principles that would guide the three factors in their search for a coalition Government .
Appointment of William S. Pfaff Jr. , 41 , as promotion manager of The Times-Picayune Publishing Company was announced Saturday by John F. Tims , president of the company .
Pfaff succeeds Martin Burke , who resigned .
The new promotion manager has been employed by the company since January , 1946 , as a commercial artist in the advertising department .
He is a native of New Orleans and attended Allen Elementary school , Fortier High school and Soule business college .
From June , 1942 , until December , 1945 , Pfaff served in the Army Air Corps .
While in the service he attended radio school at Scott Field in Belleville , Ill. .
Before entering the service , Pfaff for five years did clerical work with a general merchandising and wholesale firm in New Orleans .
He is married to the former Audrey Knecht and has a daughter , Karol , 13 .
They reside at 4911 Miles Dr. .
Washington
-- Thousands of bleacher-type seats are being erected along Pennsylvania Avenue between the Capitol and the White House for the big inaugural parade on Jan. 20 .
Assuming the weather is halfway decent that day , hundreds of thousands of persons will mass along this thoroughfare as President John F. Kennedy and retiring President Dwight D. Eisenhower leave Capitol Hill following the oath-taking ceremonies and ride down this historic ceremonial route .
Pennsylvania Avenue , named for one of the original 13 states , perhaps is not the most impressive street in the District of Columbia from a commercial standpoint .
But from a historic viewpoint none can approach it .
Many buildings
Within view of the avenue are some of the United States government's tremendous buildings , plus shrines and monuments .
Of course , 1600 Pennsylvania , the White House , is the most famous address of the free world .
Within an easy walk from Capitol Hill where Pennsylvania Avenue comes together with Constitution Avenue , begins a series of great federal buildings , some a block long and all about seven-stories high .
Great chapters of history have been recorded along the avenue , now about 169 years old .
In the early spring of 1913 a few hundred thousand persons turned out to watch 5000 women parade .
They were the suffragettes and they wanted to vote .
In the 1920 presidential election they had that right and many of them did vote for the first time .
Seats on square
Along this avenue which saw marching soldiers from the War Between the States returning in 1865 is the National Archives building where hundreds of thousands of this country's most valuable records are kept .
Also the department of justice building is located where J. Edgar Hoover presides over the federal bureau of investigation .
Street car tracks run down the center of Pennsylvania , powered with lines that are underground .
Many spectators will be occupying seats and vantage points bordering Lafayette Square , opposite the White House .
In this historic square are several statues , but the one that stands out over the others is that of Gen. Andrew Jackson , hero of the Battle of New Orleans .
Moving past the presidential viewing stand and Lafayette Square will be at least 40 marching units .
About 16,000 military members of all branches of the armed forces will take part in the parade .
Division one of the parade will be the service academies .
Division two will include the representations of Massachusetts and Texas , the respective states of the President and of Vice-President L. B. Johnson .
Then will come nine other states in the order of their admission to the union .
Division three will be headed by the Marines followed by 12 states ; ;
division four will be headed by the Navy , followed by 11 states ; ;
division five , by the Air Force followed by 11 states .
Division six will be headed by the Coast Guard , followed by the reserve forces of all services , five states , Puerto Rico , the Virgin Islands , Guam , American Samoa , the trust territories and the Canal Zone .
Jackson , Miss.
-- What does 1961 offer in political and governmental developments in Mississippi ? ?
Even for those who have been observing the political scene a long time , no script from the past is worth very much in gazing into the state's immediate political future .
This is largely because of the unpredictability of the man who operates the helm of the state government and is the elected leader of its two million inhabitants -- Gov. Ross Barnett .
Barnett , who came into office with no previous experience in public administration , has surrounded himself with confusion which not only keeps his foes guessing but his friends as well .
Consequently , it is uncertain after nearly 12 months in office just which direction the Barnett administration will take in the coming year .
Could be scramble
Some predict the administration will settle down during 1961 and iron out the rough edges which it has had thus far .
The builtin headache of the Barnett regime thus far has been the steady stream of job-seekers and others who feel they were given commitments by Barnett at some stage of his eight-year quest for the governor's office .
There are many who predict that should Barnett decide to call the Legislature back into special session , it will really throw his administration into a scramble .
Certainly nobody will predict that the next time the lawmakers come back together Barnett will be able to enjoy a re-enactment of the strange but successful `` honeymoon '' he had in the 1960 legislative session .
If Barnett doesn't call a special session in 1961 , it will be the first year in the last decade that the Legislature has not met in regular or special session .
The odds favor a special session , more than likely early in the year .
Districts issue
Legislators always get restless for a special session ( whether for the companionship or the $22.50 per diem is not certain ) and if they start agitating .
Barnett is not expected to be able to withstand the pressure .
The issue which may make it necessary to have a session is the highly sensitive problem of cutting the state's congressional districts from six to five to eliminate one congressional seat .
With eyes focused on the third congressional district , the historic Delta district , and Congressman Frank E. Smith as the one most likely to go , the redistricting battle will put to a test the longstanding power which lawmakers from the Delta have held in the Legislature .
Mississippi's relations with the national Democratic party will be at a crossroads during 1961 , with the first Democratic president in eight years in the White House .
Split badly during the recent presidential election into almost equally divided camps of party loyalists and independents , the Democratic party in Mississippi is currently a wreck .
And there has been no effort since the election to pull it back together .
Future clouded
Barnett , as the titular head of the Democratic party , apparently must make the move to reestablish relations with the national Democratic party or see a movement come from the loyalist ranks to completely bypass him as a party functionary .
With a Democratic administration , party patronage would normally begin to flow to Mississippi if it had held its Democratic solidarity in the November election .
Now , the picture is clouded , and even US Sens. James O. Eastland and John C. Stennis , who remained loyal to the ticket , are uncertain of their status .
Reports are that it is more than probable that the four congressmen from Mississippi who did not support the party ticket will be stripped of the usual patronage which flows to congressmen .
Baton Rouge , La.
-- The Gov. Jimmie H. Davis administration appears to face a difficult year in 1961 , with the governor's theme of peace and harmony subjected to severe stresses .
The year will probably start out with segregation still the most troublesome issue .
But it might give way shortly to another vexing issue -- that of finances in state government .
The transition from segregation to finances might already be in progress , in the form of an administration proposal to hike the state sales tax from 2 per cent to 3 per cent .
The administration has said the sales tax proposal is merely part of the segregation strategy , since the revenues from the increase would be dedicated to a grant in aid program .
But the tardiness of the administration in making the dedication has caused legislators to suspect the tax bill was related more directly to an over-all shortage of cash than to segregation .
Legislators weary
Indeed , the administration's curious position on the sales tax was a major factor in contributing to its defeat .
The administration could not say why $28 million was needed for a grant-in-aid program .
The effectiveness of the governor in clearing up some of the inconsistencies revolving about the sales tax bill may play a part in determining whether it can muster the required two-thirds vote .
The tax bill will be up for reconsideration Wednesday in the House when the Legislature reconvenes .
Davis may use the tax bill as a means to effect a transition from special sessions of the Legislature to normalcy .
If it fails to pass , he can throw up his hands and say the Legislature would not support him in his efforts to prevent integration .
He could terminate special sessions of the Legislature .
Actually , Davis would have to toss in the towel soon anyway .
Many legislators are already weary and frustrated over the so-far losing battle to block token integration .
This is not the sort of thing most politicos would care to acknowledge publicly .
They would like to convey the notion something is being done , even though it is something they know to be ineffectual .
Underlying concern
Passage of the sales tax measure would also give Davis the means to effect a transition .
He could tell the Legislature they had provided the needed funds to carry on the battle .
Then he could tell them to go home , while the administration continued to wage the battle with the $28 million in extra revenues the sales tax measure would bring in over an eight months period .
It is difficult to be certain how the administration views that $28 million , since the views of one leader may not be the same as the views of another one .
But if the administration should find it does not need the $28 million for a grant-in-aid program , a not unlikely conclusion , it could very well seek a way to use the money for other purposes .
This would be in perfect consonance with the underlying concern in the administration -- the shortage of cash .
It could become an acute problem in the coming fiscal year .
If the administration does not succeed in passing the sales tax bill , or any other tax bill , it could very well be faced this spring at the fiscal session of the Legislature with an interesting dilemma .
Since the constitution forbids introduction of a tax bill at a fiscal session , the administration will either have to cut down expenses or inflate its estimates of anticipated revenues .
Constant problem
In either case , it could call a special session of the Legislature later in 1961 to make another stab at raising additional revenues through a tax raiser .
The prospect of cutting back spending is an unpleasant one for any governor .
It is one that most try to avoid , as long as they can see an alternative approach to the problem .
But if all alternatives should be clearly blocked off , it can be expected the Davis administration will take steps to trim spending at the spring session of the state Legislature .
This might be done to arouse those who have been squeezed out by the trims to exert pressure on the Legislature , so it would be more receptive to a tax proposal later in the year .
A constant problem confronting Davis on any proposals for new taxes will be the charge by his foes that he has not tried to economize .
Any tax bill also will revive allegations that some of his followers have been using their administration affiliations imprudently to profit themselves .
The new year might see some house-cleaning , either genuine or token , depending upon developments , to give Davis an opportunity to combat some of these criticisms .
City Controller Alexander Hemphill charged Tuesday that the bids on the Frankford Elevated repair project were rigged to the advantage of a private contracting company which had `` an inside track '' with the city .
Estimates of the city's loss in the $344,000 job have ranged as high as $200,000 .
Shortcuts unnoticed
Hemphill said that the Hughes Steel Erection Co. contracted to do the work at an impossibly low cost with a bid that was far less than the `` legitimate '' bids of competing contractors .
The Hughes concern then took `` shortcuts '' on the project but got paid anyway , Hemphill said .
The Controller's charge of rigging was the latest development in an investigation which also brought these disclosures Tuesday :
The city has sued for the full amount of the $172,400 performance bond covering the contract .
The Philadelphia Transportation Co. is investigating the part its organization played in reviewing the project .
The signature of Harold V. Varani , former director of architecture and engineering in the Department of Public Property , appeared on payment vouchers certifying work on the project .
Varani has been fired on charges of accepting gifts from the contractor .
Managing Director Donald C. Wagner has agreed to cooperate fully with Hemphill after a period of sharp disagreement on the matter .
The announcement that the city would sue for recovery on the performance bond was made by City Solicitor David Berger at a press conference following a meeting in the morning with Wagner and other officials of the city and the PTC as well as representatives of an engineering firm that was pulled off the El project before its completion in 1959 .
Concern bankrupt
The Hughes company and the Consolidated Industries , Inc. , both of 3646 N. 2d St. , filed for reorganization under the Federal bankruptcy law .
On Monday , the Hughes concern was formally declared bankrupt after its directors indicated they could not draw up a plan for reorganization .
Business relations between the companies and city have been under investigation by Hemphill and District Attorney James C. Crumlish , Jr. .
Intervenes in case
The suit was filed later in the day in Common Pleas Court 7 against the Hughes company and two bonding firms .
Travelers Indemnity Co. and the Continental Casualty Co. .
At Berger's direction , the city also intervened in the Hughes bankruptcy case in U. S. District Court in a move preliminary to filing a claim there .
`` I am taking the position that the contract was clearly violated '' , Berger said .
The contract violations mostly involve failure to perform rehabilitation work on expansion joints along the El track .
The contract called for overhauling of 102 joints .
The city paid for work on 75 , of which no more than 21 were repaired , Hemphill charged .
Wide range in bids
Hemphill said the Hughes concern contracted to do the repairs at a cost of $500 for each joint .
The bid from A. Belanger and Sons of Cambridge , Mass. , which listed the same officers as Hughes , was $600 per joint .
But , Hemphill added , bids from other contractors ranged from $2400 to $3100 per joint .
Berger's decision to sue for the full amount of the performance bond was questioned by Wagner in the morning press conference .
Wagner said the city paid only $37,500 to the Hughes company .
`` We won't know the full amount until we get a full report '' , Wagner said .
`` We can claim on the maximum amount of the bond '' , Berger said .
Wagner replied , `` Can't you just see the headline : ' City Hooked for $172,000 ' '' ? ?
' know enough to sue '
Berger insisted that `` we know enough to sue for the full amount '' .
Douglas M. Pratt , president of the PTC , who attended the meeting , said the transit company is reviewing the work on the El .
`` We want to find out who knew about it '' , Pratt said .
`` Certain people must have known about it '' .
`` The PTC is investigating the whole matter '' , Pratt said .
Samuel D. Goodis , representing the Philadelphia Hotel Association , objected on Tuesday to a proposed boost by the city in licensing fees , saying that occupancy rates in major hotels here ranged from 48 to 74 percent last year .
Goodis voiced his objection before City Council's Finance Committee .
For hotels with 1000 rooms , the increased license fee would mean an expense of $5000 a year , Goodis said .
Testifies at hearing
His testimony came during a hearing on a bill raising fees for a wide variety of licenses , permits and city services .
The new fees are expected to raise an additional $740,000 in the remainder of 1961 and $2,330,000 more a year after that .
The ordinance would increase the fee for rooming houses , hotels and multi-family dwellings to $5 a room .
The cost of a license now is $2 , with an annual renewal fee of $1 .
Goodis said that single rooms account for 95 percent of the accomodations in some hotels .
Revenue estimated
The city expects the higher rooming house , hotel and apartment house fees to bring in an additional $457,000 a year .
The increase also was opposed by Leonard Kaplan , spokesman for the Home Builders Association of Philadelphia , on behalf of association members who operate apartment houses .
A proposal to raise dog license fees drew an objection from Councilwoman Virginia Knauer , who formerly raised pedigreed dogs .
The ordinance would increase fees from $1 for males and $2 for females to a flat $5 a dog .
Commissioner replies
Mrs. Knauer said she did not think dog owners should be penalized for the city's services to animal care .
In reply , Deputy Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary said that the city spends more than $115,000 annually to license and regulate dogs but collects only $43,000 in fees .
He reported that the city's contributions for animal care included $67,000 to the Women's S.P.C.A. ; ;
$15,000 to pay six policemen assigned as dog catchers and $15,000 to investigate dog bites .
Backs higher fees
City Finance Director Richard J. McConnell indorsed the higher fees , which , he said , had been under study for more than a year .
The city is not adequately compensated for the services covered by the fees , he said .
The new fee schedule also was supported by Commissioner of Licenses and Inspections Barnet Lieberman and Health Commissioner Eugene A. Gillis .
Petitions asking for a jail term for Norristown attorney Julian W. Barnard will be presented to the Montgomery County Court Friday , it was disclosed Tuesday by Horace A. Davenport , counsel for the widow of the man killed last Nov. 1 by Barnard's hit-run car .
The petitions will be presented in open court to President Judge William F. Dannehower , Davenport said .
Barnard , who pleaded no defense to manslaughter and hit-run charges , was fined $500 by Judge Warren K. Hess , and placed on two years' probation providing he does not drive during that time .
He was caught driving the day after the sentence was pronounced and given a warning .
Victim of the accident was Robert Lee Stansbery , 39 .
His widow started the circulation of petitions after Barnard was reprimanded for violating the probation .
The City Planning Commission on Tuesday approved agreements between two redevelopers and the Redevelopment Authority for the purchase of land in the $300,000,000 Eastwick Redevelopment Area project .
The commission also approved a novel plan that would eliminate traffic hazards for pedestrians in the project .
One of the agreements calls for the New Eastwick Corp. to purchase a 1311 acre tract for $12,192,865 .
The tract is bounded by Island Ave. , Dicks Ave. , 61st St. , and Eastwick Ave. .
Four parks planned
It is designated as Stage 1 Residential on the Redevelopment Authority's master plan and will feature row houses , garden apartments , four small parks , schools , churches , a shopping center and several small clusters of stores .
The corporation was formed by the Reynolds Metal Co. and the Samuel A. and Henry A. Berger firm , a Philadelphia builder , for work in the project .
The second agreement permits the authority to sell a 520-acre tract west of Stage 1 Residential to Philadelphia Builders Eastwick Corp. , a firm composed of 10 Philadelphia area builders , which is interested in developing part of the project .
Would bar vehicles
The plan for eliminating traffic hazards for pedestrians was developed by Dr. Constantinos A. Doxiadis , former Minister of Reconstruction in Greece and a consulting planner for the New Eastwick Corp. .
The plan calls for dividing the project into 16 sectors which would be barred to vehicular traffic .
It provides for a series of landscaped walkways and a central esplanade that would eventually run through the center of the entire two-and-a-half-mile length of the project .
The esplanade eliminates Grovers Ave. , which on original plans ran through the center of the development .
The esplanade would feature pedestrian bridges over roads in the project .
Kansas City , Mo. , Feb. 9 ( UPI )
-- The president of the Kansas City local of the International Association of Fire Fighters was severly injured today when a bomb tore his car apart as he left home for work .
Battalion Chief Stanton M. Gladden , 42 , the central figure in a representation dispute between the fire fighters association and the teamsters union , suffered multiple fractures of both ankles .
He was in Baptist Memorial hospital .
Ignition sets off blast
The battalion chief said he had just gotten into his 1958 model automobile to move it from the driveway of his home so that he could take his other car to work .
`` I'd just turned on the ignition when there was a big flash and I was lying on the driveway '' , he said .
Gladden's wife and two of his sons , John , 17 , and Jim , 13 , were inside the house .
The younger boy said the blast knocked him out of bed and against the wall .
Hood flies over house
The explosion sent the hood of the car flying over the roof of the house .
The left front wheel landed 100 feet away .
Police laboratory technicians said the explosive device , containing either TNT or nitroglycerine , was apparently placed under the left front wheel .
It was first believed the bomb was rigged to the car's starter .
Gladden had been the target of threatening telephone calls in recent months and reportedly received one last night .
The fire department here has been torn for months by dissension involving top personnel and the fight between the fire fighters association and the teamsters union .
Led fight on teamsters
Gladden has been an outspoken critic of the present city administration and led his union's battle against the teamsters , which began organizing city firemen in 1959 .
