The fire fighters association here offered a $5,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the person or persons responsible for the bombing .
A $500 reward was offered by the association's local in Kansas City , Kas. .
The association said it would post 24 hour guards at Gladden's home and at those of James Mining and Eugene Shiflett .
Mining is secretary-treasurer of the local and Shiflett is a member of its executive committee .
Both have been active in the association .
Ankara , Turkey , Oct. 24 ( AP )
-- Turkish political leaders bowed today to military pressure and agreed to form an emergency national front government with Gen. Cemal Gursel as president .
An agreement between the leaders of four parties which contested indecisive elections on Oct. 15 was reached after almost 18 hours of political bargaining under the threat of an army coup d'etat .
By-passing the military junta which has ruled Turkey since the overthrow of Premier Adnan Menderes 17 months ago , the army general staff , led by Gen. Cedvet Sunay , had set a deadline for the parties to join in a national coalition government .
The army leaders threatened to form a new military government if the parties failed to sign an eight point protocol agreeing on Gen. Gursel as president .
Gen. Gursel has headed the military junta the last 17 months .
The military also had demanded pledges that there would be no changes in the laws passed by the junta and no leaders of the Menderes regime now in prison would be pardoned .
Party leaders came out of the final meeting apparently satisfied and stated that complete agreement had been reached on a solution to the crisis created by the elections which left no party with enough strength to form a government on its own .
Vincent G. Ierulli has been appointed temporary assistant district attorney , it was announced Monday by Charles E. Raymond , District Attorney .
Ierulli will replace Desmond D. Connall who has been called to active military service but is expected back on the job by March 31 .
Ierulli , 29 , has been practicing in Portland since November , 1959 .
He is a graduate of Portland University and the Northwestern College of Law .
He is married and the father of three children .
Helping foreign countries to build a sound political structure is more important than aiding them economically , E. M. Martin , assistant secretary of state for economic affairs told members of the World Affairs Council Monday night .
Martin , who has been in office in Washington , D. C. , for 13 months spoke at the council's annual meeting at the Multnomah Hotel .
He told some 350 persons that the United States' challenge was to help countries build their own societies their own ways , following their own paths .
`` We must persuade them to enjoy a way of life which , if not identical , is congenial with ours '' , he said but adding that if they do not develop the kind of society they themselves want it will lack ritiuality and loyalty .
Patience needed
Insuring that the countries have a freedom of choice , he said , was the biggest detriment to the Soviet Union .
He cited East Germany where after 15 years of Soviet rule it has become necessary to build a wall to keep the people in , and added , `` so long as people rebel , we must not give up '' .
Martin called for patience on the part of Americans .
`` The countries are trying to build in a decade the kind of society we took a century to build '' , he said .
By leaving our doors open the United States gives other peoples the opportunity to see us and to compare , he said .
Individual help best
`` We have no reason to fear failure , but we must be extraordinarily patient '' , the assistant secretary said .
Economically , Martin said , the United States could best help foreign countries by helping them help themselves .
Private business is more effective than government aid , he explained , because individuals are able to work with the people themselves .
The United States must plan to absorb the exported goods of the country , at what he termed a `` social cost '' .
Martin said the government has been working to establish firmer prices on primary products which may involve the total income of one country .
The Portland school board was asked Monday to take a positive stand towards developing and coordinating with Portland's civil defense more plans for the city's schools in event of attack .
But there seemed to be some difference of opinion as to how far the board should go , and whose advice it should follow .
The board members , after hearing the coordination plea from Mrs. Ralph H. Molvar , 1409 SW Maplecrest Dr. , said they thought they had already been cooperating .
Chairman C. Richard Mears pointed out that perhaps this was not strictly a school board problem , in case of atomic attack , but that the board would cooperate so far as possible to get the children to where the parents wanted them to go .
Dr. Melvin W. Barnes , superintendent , said he thought the schools were waiting for some leadership , perhaps on the national level , to make sure that whatever steps of planning they took would `` be more fruitful '' , and that he had found that other school districts were not as far along in their planning as this district .
`` Los Angeles has said they would send the children to their homes in case of disaster '' , he said .
`` Nobody really expects to evacuate .
I think everybody is agreed that we need to hear some voice on the national level that would make some sense and in which we would have some confidence in following .
Mrs. Molvar , who kept reiterating her request that they `` please take a stand '' , said , `` We must have faith in somebody -- on the local level , and it wouldn't be possible for everyone to rush to a school to get their children '' .
Dr. Barnes said that there seemed to be feeling that evacuation plans , even for a high school where there were lots of cars `` might not be realistic and would not work '' .
Mrs. Molvar asked again that the board join in taking a stand in keeping with Jack Lowe's program .
The board said it thought it had gone as far as instructed so far and asked for more information to be brought at the next meeting .
It was generally agreed that the subject was important and the board should be informed on what was done , is going to be done and what it thought should be done .
Salem ( AP )
-- The statewide meeting of war mothers Tuesday in Salem will hear a greeting from Gov. Mark Hatfield .
Hatfield also is scheduled to hold a public United Nations Day reception in the state capitol on Tuesday .
His schedule calls for a noon speech Monday in Eugene at the Emerald Empire Kiwanis Club .
He will speak to Willamette University Young Republicans Thursday night in Salem .
On Friday he will go to Portland for the swearing in of Dean Bryson as Multnomah County Circuit Judge .
He will attend a meeting of the Republican State Central Committee Saturday in Portland and see the Washington-Oregon football game .
Beaverton School District No. 48 board members examined blueprints and specifications for two proposed junior high schools at a Monday night workshop session .
A bond issue which would have provided some $3.5 million for construction of the two 900-student schools was defeated by district voters in January .
Last week the board , by a 4 to 3 vote , decided to ask voters whether they prefer the 6-3-3 ( junior high school ) system or the 8-4 system .
Board members indicated Monday night this would be done by an advisory poll to be taken on Nov. 15 , the same date as a $581,000 bond election for the construction of three new elementary schools .
Secretary of Labor Arthur Goldberg will speak Sunday night at the Masonic Temple at a $25-a-plate dinner honoring Sen. Wayne L. Morse , Aj .
The dinner is sponsored by organized labor and is scheduled for 7 p.m. .
Secretary Goldberg and Sen. Morse will hold a joint press conference at the Roosevelt Hotel at 4:30 p.m. Sunday , Blaine Whipple , executive secretary of the Democratic Party of Oregon , reported Tuesday .
Other speakers for the fund-raising dinner include Reps. Edith Green and Al Ullman , Labor Commissioner Norman Nilsen and Mayor Terry Schrunk , all Democrats .
Oak Grove ( special )
-- Three positions on the Oak Lodge Water district board of directors have attracted 11 candidates .
The election will be Dec. 4 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. .
Polls will be in the water office .
Incumbent Richard Salter seeks re-election and is opposed by Donald Huffman for the five-year term .
Incumbent William Brod is opposed in his re-election bid by Barbara Njust , Miles C. Bubenik and Frank Lee .
Five candidates seek the place vacated by Secretary Hugh G. Stout .
Seeking this two-year term are James Culbertson , Dwight M. Steeves , James C. Piersee , W.M. Sexton and Theodore W. Heitschmidt .
A stronger stand on their beliefs and a firmer grasp on their future were taken Friday by delegates to the 29th general council of the Assemblies of God , in session at the Memorial Coliseum .
The council revised , in an effort to strengthen , the denomination's 16 basic beliefs adopted in 1966 .
The changes , unanimously adopted , were felt necessary in the face of modern trends away from the Bible .
The council agreed it should more firmly state its belief in and dependence on the Bible .
At the adoption , the Rev. T. F. Zimmerman , general superintendent , commented , `` The Assemblies of God has been a bulwark for fundamentalism in these modern days and has , without compromise , stood for the great truths of the Bible for which men in the past have been willing to give their lives '' .
New point added
Many changes involved minor editing and clarification ; ;
however , the first belief stood for entire revision with a new third point added to the list .
The first of 16 beliefs of the denomination , now reads :
`` The scriptures , both Old and New Testament , are verbally inspired of God and are the revelation of God to man , the infallible , authoritative rule of faith and conduct '' .
The third belief , in six points , emphasizes the Diety of the Lord Jesus Christ , and :
-- emphasizes the Virgin birth
-- the sinless life of Christ
-- His miracles
-- His substitutionary work on the cross
-- His bodily resurrection from the dead
-- and His exaltation to the right hand of God .
Super again elected
Friday afternoon the Rev. T. F. Zimmerman was reelected for his second consecutive two-year term as general superintendent of Assemblies of God .
His offices are in Springfield , Mo. .
Election came on the nominating ballot .
Friday night the delegates heard the need for their forthcoming program , `` Breakthrough '' scheduled to fill the churches for the next two years .
In his opening address Wednesday the Rev. Mr. Zimmerman , urged the delegates to consider a 10-year expansion program , with `` Breakthrough '' the theme for the first two years .
The Rev. R. L. Brandt , national secretary of the home missions department , stressed the need for the first two years' work .
`` Surveys show that one out of three Americans has vital contact with the church .
This means that more than 100 million have no vital touch with the church or religious life '' , he told delegates Friday .
Church loses pace
Talking of the rapid population growth ( upwards of 12,000 babies born daily ) with an immigrant entering the United States every 1-1/2 minutes , he said `` our organization has not been keeping pace with this challenge '' .
`` In 35 years we have opened 7,000 churches '' , the Rev. Mr. Brandt said , adding that the denomination had a national goal of one church for every 10,000 persons .
`` In this light we need 1,000 churches in Illinois , where we have 200 ; ;
800 in Southern New England , we have 60 ; ;
we need 100 in Rhode Island , we have none '' , he said .
To step up the denomination's program , the Rev. Mr. Brandt suggested the vision of 8,000 new Assemblies of God churches in the next 10 years .
To accomplish this would necessitate some changes in methods , he said .
' church meets change '
`` The church's ability to change her methods is going to determine her ability to meet the challenge of this hour '' .
A capsule view of proposed plans includes :
-- Encouraging by every means , all existing Assemblies of God churches to start new churches .
-- Engaging mature , experienced men to pioneer or open new churches in strategic population centers .
-- Surrounding pioneer pastors with vocational volunteers ( laymen , who will be urged to move into the area of new churches in the interest of lending their support to the new project ) .
-- Arranging for ministerial graduates to spend from 6-12 months as apprentices in well-established churches .
U.S. Dist. Judge Charles L. Powell denied all motions made by defense attorneys Monday in Portland's insurance fraud trial .
Denials were of motions of dismissal , continuance , mistrial , separate trial , acquittal , striking of testimony and directed verdict .
In denying motions for dismissal , Judge Powell stated that mass trials have been upheld as proper in other courts and that `` a person may join a conspiracy without knowing who all of the conspirators are '' .
Attorney Dwight L. Schwab , in behalf of defendant Philip Weinstein , argued there is no evidence linking Weinstein to the conspiracy , but Judge Powell declared this is a matter for the jury to decide .
Proof lack charged
Schwab also declared there is no proof of Weinstein's entering a conspiracy to use the U.S. mails to defraud , to which federal prosecutor A. Lawrence Burbank replied :
`` It is not necessary that a defendant actually have conpired to use the U.S. mails to defraud as long as there is evidence of a conspiracy , and the mails were then used to carry it out '' .
In the afternoon , defense attorneys began the presentation of their cases with opening statements , some of which had been deferred until after the government had called witnesses and presented its case .
Miami , Fla. , March 17
-- The Orioles tonight retained the distinction of being the only winless team among the eighteen Major-League clubs as they dropped their sixth straight spring exhibition decision , this one to the Kansas City Athletics by a score of 5 to 3 .
Indications as late as the top of the sixth were that the Birds were to end their victory draught as they coasted along with a 3-to-o advantage .
Siebern hits homer
Over the first five frames , Jack Fisher , the big righthander who figures to be in the middle of Oriole plans for a drive on the 1961 American League pennant , held the A's scoreless while yielding three scattered hits .
Then Dick Hyde , submarine-ball hurler , entered the contest and only five batters needed to face him before there existed a 3-to-3 deadlock .
A two-run homer by Norm Siebern and a solo blast by Bill Tuttle tied the game , and single runs in the eighth and ninth gave the Athletics their fifth victory in eight starts .
House throws wild
With one down in the eighth , Marv Throneberry drew a walk and stole second as Hyde fanned Tuttle .
Catcher Frank House's throw in an effort to nab Throneberry was wide and in the dirt .
Then Heywood Sullivan , Kansas City catcher , singled up the middle and Throneberry was across with what proved to be the winning run .
Rookie southpaw George Stepanovich relieved Hyde at the start of the ninth and gave up the A's fifth tally on a walk to second baseman Dick Howser , a wild pitch , and Frank Cipriani's single under Shortstop Jerry Adair's glove into center .
The Orioles once again performed at the plate in powderpuff fashion , gathering only seven blows off the offerings of three Kansas City pitchers .
Three were doubles , Brooks Robinson getting a pair and Marv Breeding one .
Hartman impressive
Bill Kunkel , Bob Hartman and Ed Keegan did the mound chores for the club down from West Palm Beach to play the game before 767 paying customers in Miami Stadium .
The Birds got five hits and all three of their runs off Kunkel before Hartman took over in the top of the fourth .
Hartman , purchased by the A's from the Milwaukee Braves last fall , allowed no hits in his scoreless three-inning appearance , and merited the triumph .
Keegan , a 6-foot-3-inch 158-pounder , gave up the Orioles' last two safeties over the final three frames , escaping a load of trouble in the ninth when the Birds threatened but failed to tally .
Robinson doubles again
In the ninth , Robinson led off with his second double of the night , a blast off the fence 375 feet deep into left .
Whitey Herzog , performing in right as the Orioles fielded possibly their strongest team of the spring , worked Keegan for a base on balls .
Then three consecutive pinch-hitters failed to produce .
Pete Ward was sent in for House and , after failing in a bunt attempt , popped to Howser on the grass back of short .
John Powell , batting for Adair , fanned after fouling off two 2-and-2 pitches , and Buddy Barker , up for Stepanovich , bounced out sharply to Jerry Lumpe at second to end the 2-hour-and-27-minute contest .
The Orioles got a run in the first inning when Breeding , along with Robinson , the two Birds who got a pair of hits , doubled to right center , moved to third on Russ Snyder's single to right and crossed on Kunkel's wild pitch into the dirt in front of the plate .
The Flock added a pair of tallies in the third on three straight hits after two were out .
Jackie Brandt singled deep into the hole at short to start the rally .
Lumpe errs
Jim Gentile bounced a hard shot off Kunkel's glove and beat it out for a single , and when Lumpe grabbed the ball and threw it over first baseman Throneberry's head Brandt took third and Gentile second on the error .
Then Robinson slammed a long double to left center to score both runners .
When Robinson tried to stretch his blow into a triple , he was cut down in a close play at third , Tuttle to Andy Carey .
The detailed rundown on the Kansas City scoring in the sixth went like this :
Lumpe worked a walk as the first batter to face Hyde and romped around as Siebern blasted Hyde's next toss 415 feet over the scoreboard in right center .
Carey Singles
Carey singled on a slow-bouncing ball to short which Robinson cut across to field and threw wide to first .
It was ruled a difficult chance and a hit .
Then Throneberry rapped into a fast double play .
Breeding to Adair to Gentile , setting up Tuttle's 390-foot homer over the wall in left center .
If the Orioles are to break their losing streak within the next two days , it will have to be at the expense of the American League champion New York Yankees , who come in here tomorrow for a night game and a single test Sunday afternoon .
Miami , Fla. , March 17
-- The flavor of Baltimore's Florida Grapefruit League news ripened considerably late today when the Orioles were advised that Ron Hansen has fulfilled his obligations under the Army's military training program and is ready for belated spring training .
Hansen , who slugged the 1960 Oriole high of 22 homers and drove in 86 runs on a
freshman average , completes the Birds' spring squad at 49 players .
The big , 22-year-old shortstop , the 1960 American league `` rookie-of-the-year '' , flew here late this afternoon from Baltimore , signed his contract for an estimated $15,000 and was a spectator at tonight's 5-to-3 loss to Kansas City -- the winless Birds' sixth setback in a row .
15 pounds lighter
The 6-foot 3-inch Hansen checked in close to 200 pounds , 15 pounds lighter than his reporting weight last spring .
He hopes to melt off an additional eight pounds before the Flock breaks camp three weeks hence .
When he was inducted into the Army at Fort Knox , Ky. , Hansen's weight had dropped to 180 -- `` too light for me to be at my best '' he said .
`` I feel good physically '' , Hansen added , `` but I think I'll move better carrying a little less weight than I'm carrying now '' .
Seeks `` improved fielding ''
The rangy , Albany ( Cal. ) native , a surprise slugging sensation for the Flock last year as well as a defensive whiz , set `` improved fielding '' as his 1961 goal .
`` I think I can do a better job with the glove , now that I know the hitters around the league a little better '' , he said .
Hansen will engage in his first workout at Miami Stadium prior to the opening tomorrow night of a two-game weekend series with the New York Yankees .
Skinny Brown and Hoyt Wilhelm , the Flock's veteran knuckleball specialists , are slated to oppose the American League champions in tomorrow's 8 P.M. contest .
Duren , Sheldon on hill
Ryne Duren and Roland Sheldon , a rookie righthander who posted a 15-1 record last year for the Yanks' Auburn ( N.Y. ) farm club of the Class-D New York-Pennsylvania League , are the probable rival pitchers .
Twenty-one-year-old Milt Pappas and Jerry Walker , 22 , are scheduled to share the Oriole mound chores against the Bombers' Art Ditmar in Sunday's 2 P.M. encounter .
Ralph Houk , successor to Casey Stengel at the Yankee helm , plans to bring the entire New York squad here from St. Petersburg , including Joe Dimaggio and large crowds are anticipated for both weekend games .
The famed Yankee Clipper , now retired , has been assisting as a batting coach .
Squad cut near
Pitcher Steve Barber joined the club one week ago after completing his hitch under the Army's accelerated wintertime military course , also at Fort Knox , Ky. .
The 22-year-old southpaw enlisted earlier last fall than did Hansen .
Baltimore's bulky spring-training contingent now gradually will be reduced as Manager Paul Richards and his coaches seek to trim it down to a more streamlined and workable unit .
`` Take a ride on this one '' , Brooks Robinson greeted Hansen as the Bird third sacker grabbed a bat , headed for the plate and bounced a third-inning two-run double off the left-centerfield wall tonight .
It was the first of two doubles by Robinson , who was in a mood to celebrate .
Just before game time , Robinson's pretty wife , Connie informed him that an addition to the family can be expected late next summer .
Unfortunately , Brooks's teammates were not in such festive mood as the Orioles expired before the seven-hit pitching of three Kansas City rookie hurlers .
Hansen arrived just before nightfall , two hours late , in company with Lee MacPhail ; ;
J. A. W. Iglehart , chairman of the Oriole board of directors , and Public Relations Director Jack Dunn .
Their flight was delayed , Dunn said , when a boarding ramp inflicted some minor damage to the wing of the plane .
Ex-Oriole Clint Courtney , now catching for the A's is all for the American League's 1961 expansion to the West Coast .
`` But they shouldda brought in Tokyo , too '' , added Old Scrapiron .
`` Then we'd really have someplace to go '' .
Bowie , Md. , March 17
-- Gaining her second straight victory , Norman B. , Small , Jr.'s Garden Fresh , a 3-year-old filly , downed promising colts in the $4,500 St. Patrick's Day Purse , featured seventh race here today , and paid $7.20 straight .
Toying with her field in the early stages , Garden Fresh was asked for top speed only in the stretch by Jockey Philip Grimm and won by a length and a half in 1.24 3-5 for the 7 furlongs .
8,280 attend races
Richard M. Forbes's Paget , which had what seemed to be a substantial lead in the early stages , tired rapidly nearing the wire and was able to save place money only a head in front of Glen T. Hallowell's Milties Miss .
A bright sun and brisk wind had the track in a fast condition for the first time this week and 8,280 St. Patty Day celebrants bet $842,617 on the well-prepared program .
Prior to the featured race , the stewards announced that apprentice James P. Verrone is suspended ten days for crowding horses and crossing the field sharply in two races on Wednesday .
Culmone gets first win
Garden Fresh , the result of a mating of Better Self and Rosy Fingered , seems to improve with each start and appeared to win the St. Patrick's Day Purse with some speed in reserve .
She was moving up to the allowance department after winning a $10,000 claiming event .
Cleveland , March 17 ( AP )
-- George Kerr , the swift-striding Jamaican , set a meet record in the 600-yard run in the Knights of Columbus track meet tonight , beating Purdue's Dave Mills in a hot duel in 1.10.1 .
Kerr , who set the world record earlier this month in New York with a clocking of 1.09.3 , wiped out Mills's early pace and beat the young Big 10 quarter-mile king by 5 yards .
Both were under the meet mark of 1.10.8 set in 1950 by Mal Whitfield .
Mills shot out in front and kept the lead through two thirds of the race .
Then Kerr , a graduate student from Illinois , moved past him on a straightaway and held off Mills's challenge on the final turn .
Mills was timed in 1.10.4 .
The crowd at the twenty-first annual K. of C. Games , final indoor meet of the season , got a thrill a few minutes earlier when a slender , bespectacled woman broke the one-week-old world record in the half-mile run .
Mrs. Grace Butcher , of nearby Chardon , a 27-year-old housewife who has two children , finished in 2.21.6 .
She snapped five tenths of a second off the mark set by Helen Shipley , of Wellsley College , in the National A.A.U. meet in Columbus , Ohio .
San Francisco , March 17 ( AP )
-- Bobby Waters of Sylvania , Ga. , relief quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers of the National Football League , will undergo a knee operation tomorrow at Franklin Hospital here .
Waters injured his left knee in the last game of the 1960 season .
While working out in Sylvania a swelling developed in the knee and he came here to consult the team physician .
St. Petersburg , Fla. , March 17 ( AP )
-- Two errors by New York Yankee shortstop Tony Kubek in the eleventh inning donated four unearned runs and a 5-to-2 victory to the Chicago White Sox today .
Austin , Texas
-- A Texas halfback who doesn't even know the team's plays , Eldon Moritz , ranks fourth in Southwest Conference scoring after three games .
Time stands still every time Moritz , a 26-year-old Army Signal Corps veteran , goes into the field .
Although he never gets to play while the clock is running , he gets a big kick -- several every Saturday , in fact -- out of football .
Moritz doesn't even have a nose guard or hip pads but he's one of the most valuable members of the Longhorn team that will be heavily favored Saturday over Oklahoma in the Cotton Bowl .
That's because he already has kicked 14 extra points in 15 tries .
He ran his string of successful conversions this season to 13 straight before one went astray last Saturday night in the 41-8 slaughter of Washington State .
Moritz is listed on the Longhorn roster as a right halfback , the position at which he lettered on the 1956 team .
But ask coach Darrell Royal what position he plays and you'll get the quick response , `` place-kicker '' .
A 208-pound , 6-foot 1-inch senior from Stamford , Moritz practices nothing but place-kicking .
Last year , when he worked out at halfback all season , he didn't get into a single game .
`` This year , coach Royal told me if I'd work on my place-kicking he thought he could use me '' , said Moritz .
`` So I started practicing on it in spring training .
Moritz was bothered during the first two games this year by a pulled muscle in the thigh of his right ( kicking ) leg and , as a result , several of his successful conversions have gone barely far enough .
Moritz said Monday his leg feels fine and , as a result , he hopes to start practicing field goals this week .
He kicked several while playing at Stamford High School , including one that beat Anson , 3-0 , in a 1953 district game .
`` I kicked about 110 extra points in 135 tries during three years in high school '' , he said , `` and made 26 in a row at one time .
I never did miss one in a playoff game -- I kicked about 20 in the five playoff games my last two years '' .
Moritz came to Texas in 1954 but his freshman football efforts were hampered by a knee injury .
He missed the 1955 season because of an operation on the ailing knee , then played 77 minutes in 1956 .
His statistical record that year , when Texas won only one game and lost nine , was far from impressive : he carried the ball three times for a net gain of 10 yards , punted once for 39 yards and caught one pass for 13 yards .
He went into the Army in March , 1957 , and returned two years later .
But he was scholastically ineligible in 1959 and merely present last season .
Place kicking is largely a matter of timing , Moritz declared .
`` Once you get the feel of it , there's not much to it .
I've tried to teach some of the other boys to kick and some of them can't seem to get the feel .
Practice helps you to get your timing down .
`` It's kind of like golf -- if you don't swing a club very often , your timing gets off '' .
Moritz , however , kicks only about 10 or 12 extra points during each practice session .
`` If you kick too much , your leg gets kinda dead '' , he explained .
Footnotes :
In their first three games , the Longhorns have had the ball 41 times and scored 16 times , or 40 per cent ; ;
their total passing yardage in three games , 447 on 30 completions in 56 attempts , is only 22 yards short of their total passing yardage in 1959 , when they made 469 on 37 completions in 86 tries .
Tailback James Saxton already has surpassed his rushing total for his brilliant sophomore season , when he netted 271 yards on 55 carries ; ;
he now has 273 yards in 22 tries during three games .
Saxton has made only one second-half appearance this season and that was in the Washington State game , for four plays : he returned the kickoff 30 yards , gained five yards through the line and then uncorked a 56-yard touchdown run before retiring to the bench .
Wingback Jack Collins injured a knee in the Washington State game but insists he'll be ready for Oklahoma .
Last week , when Royal was informed that three Longhorns were among the conference's top four in rushing , he said : `` That won't last long '' .
It didn't ; ;
Monday , he had four Longhorns in the top four .
A good feeling prevailed on the SMU coaching staff Monday , but attention quickly turned from Saturday's victory to next week's problem : Rice University .
The Mustangs don't play this week .
`` We're just real happy for the players '' , Coach Bill Meek said of the 9-7 victory over the Air Force Academy .
`` I think the big thing about the game was that our kids for the third straight week stayed in there pitching and kept the pressure on .
It was the first time we've been ahead this season ( when John Richey kicked what proved to be the winning field goal ) '' .
Assistant coach John Cudmore described victory as `` a good feeling , I think , on the part of the coaches and the players .
We needed it and we got it '' .
Meek expressed particular gratification at the defensive performances of end Happy Nelson and halfback Billy Gannon .
Both turned in top jobs for the second straight game .
`` Nelson played magnificent football '' , Meek praised .
`` He knocked down the interference and made key stops lots of times .
And he caused the fumble that set up our touchdown .
He broke that boy ( Air Force fullback Nick Arshinkoff ) in two and knocked him loose from the football '' .
Gannon contributed saving plays on the Falcons' aerial thrusts in the late stages .
One was on a fourth-down screen pass from the Mustang 21 after an incomplete pass into Gannon's territory .
`` As soon as it started to form , Gannon spotted it '' , Meek said .
`` He timed it just right and broke through there before the boy ( halfback Terry Isaacson ) had time to turn around .
He really crucified him he nailed it for a yard loss '' .
The Air Force's , and the game's , final play , was a long pass by quarterback Bob McNaughton which Gannon intercepted on his own 44 and returned 22 yards .
`` He just lay back there and waited for it '' , Meek said .
`` He almost brought it back all the way '' .
Except for sophomore center Mike Kelsey and fullback Mike Rice , Meek expects the squad to be physically sound for Rice .
`` Kelsey is very doubtful for the Rice game '' , Meek said .
`` He'll be out of action all this week .
He got hit from the blind side by the split end coming back on the second play of the game .
There is definitely some ligament damage in his knee '' .
Rice has not played since injuring a knee in the opener with Maryland .
`` He's looking a lot better , and he's able to run '' , Meek explained .
`` We'll let him do a lot of running this week , but I don't know if he'll be able to play '' .
The game players saw the Air Force film Monday , ran for 30 minutes , then went in , while the reserves scrimmaged for 45 minutes .
`` We'll work hard Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday '' , Meek said , `` and probably will have a good scrimmage Friday .
We'll work out about an hour on Saturday , then we'll work Monday and Tuesday of next week , then taper off '' .
SMU will play the Owls at Rice Stadium in Houston in a night game Saturday , Oct. 21 .
Huddle hearsay
-- Held out of Texas Tech's sweat-suits drill Monday at Lubbock was tackle Richard Stafford , who is undergoing treatment for a leg injury suffered in the Raiders' 38-7 loss to Texas A & M Because of its important game with Arkansas coming up Saturday , Baylor worked out in the rain Monday -- mud or no mud .
End Gene Raesz , who broke a hand in the Owl's game with LSU , was back working out with Rice Monday , and John Nichols , sophomore guard , moved back into action after a week's idleness with an ankle injury .
The Texas Aggies got a day off Monday -- a special gift from Coach Jim Myers for its conference victory last Saturday night , but Myers announced that halfback George Hargett , shaken up in the Tech game , would not play against Trinity Saturday .
Halfback Bud Priddy , slowed for almost a month by a slowly-mending sprained ankle , joined TCU's workout Monday .
The Dallas Texans were back home Monday with their third victory in four American Football League starts -- a 19-12 triumph over the Denver Broncos -- but their visit will be a short one .
The Texans have two more road games -- at Buffalo and Houston -- before they play for the home folks again , and it looks as if coach Hank Stram's men will meet the Bills just as they are developing into the kind of team they were expected to be in pre-season reckonings .
Buffalo coach Buster Ramsey , who has become one of the game's greatest collectors of quarterbacks , apparently now has found a productive pair in two ex-National Football Leaguers , M. C. Reynolds and Warren Rabb .
