For the Smith-Hughes , George-Barden , and National Defense Act of 1958 , the cumulative total of Federal expenditures in 42 years was only about $740 million .
No comparable measures are available of enrollments and expenditures for private vocational education training .
There are a great number and variety of private commercial schools , trade schools and technical schools .
In addition , many large corporations operate their own formal training programs .
A recent study indicated that 85 per cent of the nation's largest corporations conducted educational programs involving some class meetings and examinations .
Most skilled industrial workers , nevertheless , still acquire their skills outside of formal training institutions .
The National Manpower Council of Columbia University has estimated that three out of five skilled workers and one out of five technicians have not been formally trained .
There is little doubt that the students benefit from vocational education .
Employers prefer to hire youth with such training rather than those without , and most graduates of vocational training go to work in jobs related to their training .
Vocational educators do not claim that school training alone makes skilled workers , but it provides the essential groundwork for developing skills .
In most states , trade and industrial training is provided in a minority of the high schools , usually located in the larger cities .
In Arkansas fewer than 6 per cent of the high schools offer trade and industrial courses .
In Illinois about 13 per cent of the schools have programs , and in Pennsylvania 11 per cent .
An important recent trend is the development of area vocational schools .
For a number of years Kentucky , Louisiana and several other states have been building state-sponsored vocational education schools that serve nearby school districts in several counties .
These schools are intended to provide the facilities and specialized curriculum that would not be possible for very small school districts .
Transportation may be provided from nearby school districts .
Courses are provided mainly for post high school day programs ; ;
but sometimes arrangements also are made for high school students to attend , and evening extension courses also may be conducted .
The Title 8 , program of the National Defense Education Act of 1958 was a great spur to this trend toward area schools .
By 1960 there were such schools in all but 4 states .
They were operating in 10 of the 17 major areas of chronic labor surplus and in 10 of the minor areas .
An extension of this program into the other distressed areas should be undertaken .
Relation to new industry
Some of this trend toward area vocational schools has been related to the problems of persistent labor surplus areas and their desire to attract new industry .
The major training need of a new industrial plant is a short period of pre-employment training for a large number of semi-skilled machine operators .
A few key skilled workers experienced in the company's type of work usually must be brought in with the plant manager , or hired away from a similar plant elsewhere .
A prospective industry also may be interested in the long-run advantages of training programs in the area to supply future skilled workers and provide supplementary extension courses for its employees .
The existence of a public school vocational training program in trade and industry provides a base from which such needs can be filled .
Additional courses can readily be added and special cooperative programs worked out with any new industry if the basic facilities , staff and program are in being .
Thus , besides the training provided to youth in school , the existence of the school program can have supplementary benefits to industry which make it an asset to industrial development efforts .
Few states make effective use of their existing vocational education programs or funds for the purpose of attracting new industry .
The opportunity exists for states to reserve some of their vocational education funds to apply on an ad hoc flexible basis to subsidize any local preemployment training programs that may be quickly set up in a community to aid a new industrial plant .
Local focus of programs
The major weakness of vocational training programs in labor surplus areas is their focus on serving solely local job demands .
This weakness is not unique to labor surplus areas , for it is inherent in the system of local school districts in this country .
Planning of vocational education programs and courses is oriented to local employer needs for trained workers .
All the manuals for setting up vocational courses stress the importance of first making a local survey of skill needs , of estimating the growth of local jobs , and of consulting with local employers on the types of courses and their content .
Furthermore , there is a cautious conservatism on the part of those making local skill surveys .
Local jobs can be seen and counted , while opportunities elsewhere are regarded as more hypothetical .
While the U. S. Department of Labor has a program of projecting industry and occupational employment trends and publishing current outlook statements , there is little tangible evidence that these projections have been used extensively in local curriculum planning .
The U. S. Office of Education continues to stress local surveys rather than national surveys .
This procedure is extremely shortsighted in chronic labor surplus areas with a long history of declining employment .
Elaborate studies have been made in labor surplus areas in order to identify sufficient numbers of local job vacancies and future replacement needs for certain skills to justify training programs for those skills .
No effort is made in the same studies to present information on regional or national demand trends in these skills or to consider whether regional or national demands for other skills might provide much better opportunities for the youth to be trained .
Moreover , the current information on what types of training are needed and possible is too limited and fragmentary .
There simply is not enough material available on the types of job skills that are in demand and the types of training programs that are required or most suitable .
Much of the available information comes not from the Federal government but from an exchange of experiences among states .
Proposals
State and local agencies in the vocational education field must be encouraged to adopt a wider outlook on future job opportunities .
There is a need for an expanded Federal effort to provide research and information to help guide state education departments and local school boards in existing programs .
A related question is whether unemployed workers can be motivated to take the training provided .
There is little evidence that existing public or private training programs have any great difficulty getting students to enroll in their programs , even though they must pay tuition , receive no subsistence payments , and are not guaranteed a job .
However , there always is some limit to the numbers who will spend the time and effort to acquire training .
Again , one major difficulty is the local focus .
A training program in a depressed area may have few enrollees unless there is some apparent prospect for better employment opportunities afterwards , and the prospect may be poor if the training is aimed solely at jobs in the local community .
If there is adequate information on job opportunities for skilled jobs elsewhere , many more workers can be expected to respond .
Another problem is who will pay for the training .
Local school districts are hard pressed financially and unenthusiastic about vocational training .
Programs usually are expanded only when outside funds are available or local business leaders demand it .
Even industrial development leaders find it hard to win local support for training unless a new industry is in sight and requests it .
State governments have been taking the lead in establishing area vocational schools , but their focus is still on area job opportunities .
Only the Federal government is likely to be able to take a long-run and nation-wide view and to pay for training to meet national skilled manpower needs .
If only state funds were used to pay for the vocational education , it could be argued that the state should not have to bear the cost of vocational training which would benefit employers in other states .
However , if Federal funds are used , it would be entirely appropriate to train workers for jobs which could be obtained elsewhere as well as for jobs in the area of chronic unemployment .
Such training would increase the tendency of workers to leave the area and find jobs in other localities .
A further possibility is suggested by the example of the G. I. bills and also by some recent trends in attitudes toward improving college education : that is to provide financial assistance to individuals for vocational training when local facilities are inadequate .
This probably would require some support for subsistence as well as for tuition , but the total would be no greater than for the proposals of unemployment compensation or a Youth Conservation Corps .
A maximum of $600 per year per student would enable many to take training away from home .
A program of financial assistance would permit placing emphasis on the national interest in training highly skilled labor .
Instead of being limited to the poor training facilities in remote areas , the student would be able to move to large institutions of concentrated specialized training .
Such specialized training institutions could be located near the most rapidly growing industries , where the equipment and job experience exist and where the future employment opportunities are located .
This would heighten possibilities for part-time cooperative , on-the-job and extension training .
Personal financial assistance would enable more emphasis to be placed on the interests of the individual .
His aptitudes and preferences could be given more weight in selecting the proper training .
But briefly , the topping configuration must be examined for its inferences .
Then the fact that the lower channel line was pierced had further forecasting significance .
And then the application of the count rules to the width ( horizontally ) of the configuration gives us an intial estimate of the probable depth of the decline .
The very idea of there being `` count rules '' implies that there is some sort of proportion to be expected between the amount of congestive activity and the extent of the breakaway ( run up or run down ) movement .
This expectation is what really `` sold '' point and figure .
But there is no positive and consistently demonstrable relationship in the strictest sense .
Experience will show that only the vaguest generalities apply , and in fine , these merely dwell upon a relationship between the durations and intensities of events .
After all , too much does not happen too suddenly , nor does very little take long .
The advantages and disadvantages of these two types of charting , bar charting and point and figure charting , remain the subject of fairly good-natured litigation among their respective professional advocates , with both methods enjoying in common , one irrevocable merit .
They are both trend-following methods .
Even if we strip their respective claims to the barest minimum , the `` odds '' still favor them both , for the trend in effect is always more likely to continue than to reverse .
Of course , many more things are charted besides prices .
The foregoing have been methods of charting prices , but now let us look at some of the other indices that are customarily charted , and which are looked to for their forecasting abilities .
The quest for methods
The search for forecasting formulae is ceaseless .
Correlations have been worked up between the loading of freight cars and the course of stock price .
The theory behind this is , of course , fundamentalist in character .
As the number of reported freight car loadings increased , this was taken to indicate increased industrial activity , and consequently increased stock earnings , implying fatter dividends , and implying therefore increased stock market prices .
We now know that things rarely ever work out in such cut-and-dried fashion , and that car loadings , while perhaps interesting enough , are nevertheless not the magic formula that will always turn before stock prices turn .
But the quest for such an index goes on ceaselessly , with all manner of investors and speculators participating , ranging from the sedate institutional type virtually to the proverbial shoe-string operator , all seeking doggedly , studiously , daily -- and often nightly -- for the enchanting index that will foretell the eternal secret : Which way will the market move -- up or down ? ?
It recalls to mind the quest of olden times for the fountain of youth , a quest heavily invested in , during the days of wooden ships .
Just as heavily invested are the endeavors of multitudes of modern men who carry on the quest for the enchanting index .
The quest offers careers .
Much of this goes on in offices high up in Wall Street's lofty wind-swept towers .
There sit men who make moving averages of weekly volume , monthly averages of price-earnings ratios , ratios of the number of advances to the number of declines , ratios of an individual stock's performance to overall market performance , ratios of rising price volume to falling price volume , odd-lot indices , and what not .
They are concerned with all things traded in , securities , bonds , cocao , coffee , soybeans , cotton , tin , oats , etc. .
And along Chicago's West Jackson Boulevard , La Salle Street , and around the Merchandise Mart Plaza there sit men who chart crop reports , who divide the number of reported lady-bugs by the number of reported green-bugs , and the number of hogs by the amount of corn .
They plot the open interest curves , rainfall curves , and they even divide Democratic congressmen by Republican congressmen .
All these things and countless more enter into their calculations , and yet , the enchanting index remains non-forthcoming .
Not , at any rate , in the fuller sense of the word .
The markets are far too subtle , and the last word in these endeavors will doubtless never be written , for the enchanting index is about as nebulous as the fountain of youth .
But whereas civilized men no longer pursue the fountain , they never abandoned their pursuit of the enchanting index .
We mentioned odd-lot indices a few paragraphs ago .
In the stock market , the normal trading package is a hundred shares , just as 5,000 bushels is the standard grain contract package .
A stock transaction for less than a hundred shares is executed via a special odd-lot broker on the floor of the exchange .
This results in a separate record being made , distinguishing these trades from the overall volume of trading .
According to the theory underlying odd-lot indices , the trader who trades odd lots is most likely a small trader , one who can't afford to trade round lots .
Or , to use the cynical phraseology of one odd-lot index enthusiast , they represent a sampling of the least sophisticated echelon of traders .
Falling most easily prey to an adverse market movement , for this rank of traders can least afford to lose , virtually anything the odd-lot traders do , marketwise , is taken to exemplify the `` wrong '' thing to do .
Figures reporting the volume of odd-lot purchases and odd-lot sales are released by the stock exchange and carried in the newspapers .
Odd-lot index observers then make graphs of the data according to their particular statistical recipe .
They might , for example , plot it exactly as is , or they might make ten day moving averages of it , or longer moving averages , or they might simply plot the ratio of odd-lot purchases to odd-lot sales .
The particular recipe is a matter of individual taste .
The data is now interpreted in conjunction with a price chart , usually of a popular stock average .
Towards the end of an intermediate or major rise , while the top is forming on the price chart , it is frequently observed that the odd-lot buying increases sharply .
This warns the chartist that the formation in progress is quite likely to be a top .
Similarly , at the opposite end of the market cycle , towards the end of an intermediate or major decline , usually while the bottom is being formed on the price chart , it is characteristic that an increase is noticed in odd-lot selling again alerting the chartist that a bottom is becoming a greater likelihood .
Thus , in the aggregate , the odd-lot trader is one who buys at the tops and sells at the bottoms , notwithstanding occasional individual exceptions .
While it had long been known in general , that `` the public is always wrong '' , the use of odd-lot indices now puts the adage on a statistical basis .
One might well wonder why the `` public is always wrong '' and the question raised is about as awkward as the one concerned with the chicken and the egg .
Which came first ? ?
Is it really that the `` public '' buys at the tops , and not that the market tops out when the `` public '' buys ? ?
And the converse at bottoms .
Does the `` public '' usually sell at bottoms , or does the market usually bottom out when the `` public '' sells ? ?
We have been using the word `` public '' in quotation marks , that is , in its vernacular connotation with reference to the odd-lot index theory .
Obviously someone has to sell in order for someone to buy , and vice versa .
And while all concerned are members of the literal public , somewhat less than all concerned , although still a majority , form the quotation marked `` public '' .
And the public minus the `` public '' leaves the so-called `` sophisticated '' element -- the element on the other end of the `` public's '' transactions .
This element is often called `` strong hands '' .
Strong hands differ from `` weak hands '' in that their operations are the primary movers .
They initiate campaigns , so to speak , even if this initiation is diffused among them , and their concerted action only psychologically organized .
Strong hands act ; ;
weak hands react .
Strong hands move first ; ;
weak hands ask , What is going on ? ?
When strong hands buy , they are able to buy more , and they do it even in the face of bearish news reports .
They are able to sit more patiently with what they have bought .
Needless to say , strong hands are not eager to be joined by weak hands , for this increases the risk that they will have to absorb what these weak hands unload on the way up , at higher prices , during the run-up phase of the campaign .
Certain badly disillusioned market critics are often apt to feel that there is something somehow unfair , dirty , or even thoroughly criminal about this interplay of competitive forces .
But after all , can anyone imagine a market wherein the reverse of these things were true ? ?
Try to imagine a market in which only a minority of traders would lose , and the majority would make consistent profits .
How much and how many profits could a majority take out of the losses of a few ? ?
Moreover , the taunt concerning the `` sophisticated '' echelon and its alleged erudition is put to test during every campaign , and accrues only upon results ; ;
not before .
It quite often happens that campaigns go askew , resulting in a most unflattering deterioration of strong hands into played-out hands , just as a member of a former campaign's `` public '' may emerge flatteringly `` right '' the next time .
Membership in the echelons fluctuates too .
The study of odd-lot indices is somehow akin to the spectacle of a man trying to outfox his own shadow , what with all observers trying to get on the side of the `` few '' at the same time .
The usefulness of this study and of configuration analysis as well , declines in direct proportion to the dissemination of its use .
It has to , by virtue of the very dictionary definition of the word `` few '' .
Diametric opposition must persist as to the future course of prices , if there is to persist a market at all .
And the few must win what the many lose , for the opposite arrangement would not support markets as we know them at all , and is , in fact , unimaginable .
There need be no squeamishness about admitting this .
Anyone still doubting that this is the only way markets can be is invited to try to imagine a market wherein the majority consistently wins what the minority loses .
Mr. John Magee , whose work has been discussed in this chapter , was quoted in a New Yorker Magazine profile as saying : `` Of course , you have to remember it's a good thing for us chartists that there aren't more of us .
If you got too many people investing by this method , their operations would begin to affect stock prices , and thus throw the charts off .
The method would become self-defeating '' .
Mr. Alexander H. Wheelan's Study Helps In Point And Figure Technique tells the readers : `` We assure you that the total number of people using this method of market analysis is a very small portion of the sum total of those operating in the securities and commodities markets '' .
What with traders trading for so many different objectives , and what with there being so many unique and individualized market theories and trading techniques in use , and more coming into use all the time , it is hard to imagine how any particular theory or technique could acquire enough `` fans '' to invalidate itself .
Nevertheless , all theories and techniques lead but to one of two possible modes of expression , if they lead to a market committment at all .
In the final analysis , then , the user becomes either a bull or a bear in a given instance , notwithstanding any amount of forethought and calculation , however elaborate .
Thus while his theory or technique may not be oversubscribed , it is commonplace for bullish and bearish positions to become temporarily over-subscribed .
Though the methods of deciding may be profound and diverse , the possible conclusions remain but two .
Chapter 6 , more methods
the hoaxes
The purpose set forth at the beginning of this book was first to introduce the reader to a general background knowledge of the various types and capabilities of the forecasting methods already in use , so that he might then be in a position to evaluate for himself the validity of the rather astonishing empirical correlation that is to follow , and to appraise the forecast that its interpretation suggests for the future of farm prices over the years immediately ahead .
In assessing the outlook for interest rates in 1961 , the question , as always , is the prospect for general business activity .
By and large , what happens to business as a whole will govern the relationship between demand and supply conditions in the capital markets and will thus determine interest rates .
Moreover , the trend of general business activity in 1961 will exert a decisive influence on fiscal , monetary , and other Federal policies which affect interest rates .
Nineteen-sixty has been a baffling year for analysts of general business activity .
During much of the year the general level of business activity has moved along on a record-high plateau , but there have been persistent signs of slack in the economy .
The tendency for general business activity to soften somewhat is becoming more evident .
Although the pause in the advance of general business activity this year has thus far been quite modest , it is hard to escape the conclusion that the softening process will continue into the first quarter of 1961 and possibly somewhat longer .
It is difficult to see any powerful sources of strength on the horizon at this time which would give the economy a new upward thrust .
The rate of plant and equipment spending by business and industry now seems to be topping out and facing some decline .
In earlier business cycles , when this occurred the country usually experienced a sharp upturn in residential construction as mortgage financing became easier to obtain .
At this time , however , there are signs that increased availability of mortgage credit will not act with the usual speed to stimulate a sharp rise in residential construction .
These signs are the inventories of unsold houses in some areas of the country and the moderate rise in vacancy rates for apartments ( 7.6% in September ) .
On the other hand , in a more favorable vein , general business activity should receive some stimulus from rising Federal spending , and the reduction in business inventories has probably run a good part of its course .
The 2% increase in retail sales in October to a 4-month high is encouraging in this connection as well as the most recent consumer survey by the National Industrial Conference Board , which shows a decided pickup in consumer spending plans .
The pattern of general business activity which probably lies ahead of us is a further moderate softening through the spring of 1961 before a new rise in economic activity gets under way .
The recovery will probably be sparked by a rising rate of housing starts next spring in response to more readily available mortgage credit , as well as by an expansion of Government spending , well sustained consumer spending , and some rebuilding of business inventories .
Slight downward pressure
What does the general business outlook suggest about the trend of long-term rates in 1961 ? ?
It suggests that during the next several months , through the spring of 1961 , the demand for long-term capital funds may be moderately lower and that interest rates may tend to move a little lower , especially the rates on Federal , state , and local bonds , as well as those on publicly offered corporate bonds .
However , as witnessed by the large corporate bond calendar at present , as well as the record amount of municipal bond issues approved by voters , the over-all demands for capital funds seem likely to remain high , so that any downward pressure on rates from reduced demand should not be great .
It seems likely , moreover , that with an increase in the rate of saving in mortgage lending institutions , interest rates on residential mortgages may move somewhat lower through the spring of next year , although the increased ease in residential mortgage lending may occur primarily in other terms than interest rate , e.g. , easier downpayment and amortization terms .
If the trend of general business activity follows the pattern suggested here , we are likely to see additional steps by the Federal Reserve authorities to ease the availability of credit .
Certainly a further reduction in the discount rate would be a strong possibility , as well as an easier reserve position for the banking system .
However , the monetary authorities will continue to be required to pay attention to the consequences of their actions with respect to our international balance of payments position and the outflow of gold , as well as with regard to avoiding the creation of excessive liquidity in the economy , which would delay the effectiveness of monetary policy measures in the next expansion phase of the business cycle .
Open market policy
One of the most intriguing questions is whether the recent departures of the Federal Reserve authorities from confining their open market operations to Treasury bills will spread into longer-term Government securities in the next few months .
To the extent that the new Administration has its wishes , the Federal Reserve would conduct its open market operations throughout the entire maturity range of Government securities and aggressively seek to force down long-term interest rates .
The principle of `` bills only '' , or `` bills preferably '' , seems so strongly accepted by the Federal Reserve that it is difficult to envision conditions which would persuade the authorities to depart radically from it by extending their open market purchases regularly into long-term Government securities .
However , to the extent that the monetary authorities , in their effort to ease credit in the next several months , conduct their open market operations in longer-term Government bonds , they will certainly act to accentuate any tendency for long-term interest rates to ease as a result of market forces .
By the end of the spring of 1961 , assuming that a general business recovery gets under way , interest rates should begin to edge upward again , depending upon the vigor of the recovery and the determination with which the monetary authorities move to restrain credit availability .
My guess would be that interest rates will decline moderately into the spring of 1961 and during the second half of the year will turn up gradually to recover the ground lost during the downturn .
It is pertinent to ask the question : Has the long upswing of interest rates during the past 15 years just about run its course , and are we now entering a period in which both capital market forces and Federal policies will produce a prolonged decline of interest rates ? ?
My answer is in the negative because I believe that total capital demands during the Sixties will continue to press against available supplies , and interest rates will generally tend to be firm at high levels .
Five basic forces
This view is based upon several basic economic forces which I believe will be operating in the Sixties , as follows : ( 1 )
Recent events in the General Assembly of the United Nations confirm that the cold war will remain with us , and probably intensify , for the foreseeable future .
This makes it certain that Federal expenditures for military preparedness and foreign economic aid are likely to rise further in the next several years .
We are just beginning the task of trying to win or maintain the friendship of the new African nations against the ruthless competition of the Communist bloc .
Our efforts to overcome the lead of the Russians in space are bound to mean accelerated Federal spending .
Moreover , it is likely that Federal policies aimed at stimulating a faster rate of economic growth of the country , to keep ahead of the Communist countries and to demonstrate that our free economic system is better than theirs , will lead to rising Federal spending in certain areas such as education , housing , medical aid , and the like .
There are serious dangers involved in this trend toward rising Federal expenditures , of which I take a dim view , but it seems very likely to occur .
( 2 )
During the Sixties we have the prospect of a significant stepping up in the rate of household formations , which should contribute to a rising volume of consumer expenditures and home building .
According to the latest projections of the Bureau of the Census , the annual rate of household formations will increase for the next 20 years .
Under the most favorable assumptions for increase , the Bureau of the Census projects that the annual rate of household formations will rise from about 883,000 in the last two years of the Fifties to an annual rate of about 1,018,000 in the first five years of the Sixties , and to a slightly higher annual rate of 1,083,000 in the second half of the decade .
During the Seventies the projections show a more pronounced rise to an annual rate of 1,338,000 in the second half of that decade .
Accordingly , the expanding markets for consumer goods and housing occasioned by the higher rate of household formation should enhance the general economic prospects of the Sixties .
However , the impact of a rising rate of household formation this decade should not be exaggerated .
The average annual rate of 1,083,000 in the second half of the Sixties is still considerably below the annual rate of 1,525,000 in the three-year period from April 1947 to March 1950 .
( 3 )
With the expansion of family formation in the Sixties , a continued substantial rise in expenditures by state and local government units seems to be indicated .
This is an area in which there is still a large backlog of demand .
State and local expenditures ( in real terms ) increased persistently from $26.5-billion in 1949 to $44.3-billion in 1959 , and it would not be surprising if they showed a comparable increase in this decade , which would carry them to the neighborhood of $75-billion by 1970 .
Here would be a powerful force for raising business activity .
( 4 )
It seems likely that with the three preceding forces at play , the rate of business and industrial plant and equipment expenditures should continue to move upward from the levels of the Fifties .
Spurred by keen competition in our industrial system , and still further increases in the funds devoted to industrial research , plant and equipment expenditures by business and industry should rise during the decade .
( 5 )
In a more pessimistic vein about the economic outlook , I suspect that the reservoir of demand for consumer goods and housing which was dammed-up during the Thirties and World War 2 , is finally in the process of running dry .
There is some clear-cut evidence of this .
For example , the huge postwar demand on the part of veterans for housing under the VA home loan guaranty program seems to have largely exhausted itself .
Indeed , the failure of home-building as a whole to respond this year to somewhat greater availability of mortgage financing , and the increasing reports of pockets of unsold homes and rising vacancy rates in apartment buildings , may also signal in part that the lush days of big backlog demand for housing are reaching an end .
In a way , we may be witnessing the same thing in the sales of automobiles today as the public no longer is willing to purchase any car coming on the market but is more insistent on compact cars free of the frills which were accepted in the Fifties .
The huge backlog of demand which was evident in the first decade and a half after the War was fed by liquid assets accumulated by the public during the War , and even more so by the easier and easier credit in the consumer loan and home loan fields .
The consuming public has used up a good part of these liquid assets , or they have been drained by the rising price level , and we have apparently gotten to the end of the line in making consumer or home mortgage terms easier .
This is not to say that the level of consumer expenditures will not continue to rise in the Sixties .
I am confident that it will , but consumer spending in the Sixties will not be fortified by the great backlog of wants and desires which characterized most of the Fifties .
Markets should become more competitive as consumers become more selective .
Sixties' capital requirements
Accordingly , during the Sixties our national economy is likely to grow at as fast a rate as in the Fifties and , in the process , to require enormous amounts of capital funds .
Wage-price policies of industry are the result of a complex of forces -- no single explanation has been found which applies to all cases .
The purpose of this paper is to analyze one possible force which has not been treated in the literature , but which we believe makes a significant contribution to explaining the wage-price behavior of a few very important industries .
While there may be several such industries to which the model of this paper is applicable , the authors make particular claim of relevance to the explanation of the course of wages and prices in the steel industry of the United States since World War 2 .
Indeed , the apparent stiffening of the industry's attitude in the recent steel strike has a direct explanation in terms of the model here presented .
The model of this paper considers an industry which is not characterized by vigorous price competition , but which is so basic that its wage-price policies are held in check by continuous critical public scrutiny .
Where the industry's product price has been kept below the `` profit-maximizing '' and `` entry-limiting '' prices due to fears of public reaction , the profit seeking producers have an interest in offering little real resistance to wage demands .
The contribution of this paper is a demonstration of this proposition , and an exploration of some of its implications .
In order to focus clearly upon the operation of this one force , which we may call the effect of `` public-limit pricing '' on `` key '' wage bargains , we deliberately simplify the model by abstracting from other forces , such as union power , which may be relevant in an actual situation .
For expository purposes , this is best treated as a model which spells out the conditions under which an important industry affected with the public interest would find it profitable to raise wages even in the absence of union pressures for higher wages .
Part 1 , below describes this abstract model by spelling out its assumptions .
Part 2 , discusses the operation of the model and derives some significant conclusions .
Part 3 , discusses the empirical relevance and policy implications of the conclusions .
Part 4 , is a brief summary .
The Mathematical Appendix presents the rigorous argument , but is best read after Part 1 , in order that the assumptions underlying the equations may be explicit .
1 , the assumptions of the model
A .
The industry
The industry with which this model is concerned is a basic industry , producing a substantial share of gross national product .
Price competition is lacking .
For the purposes of setting the product price , the industry behaves as a single entity .
In wage negotiations , the industry bargains as a unit with a single union .
B .
The demand for the industry's product
We are concerned with aggregate demand for the industry's product .
The manner in which this is shared among firms is taken as given .
In any given time period , the aggregate demand for the industry's product is determined by two things : the price charged by the industry , and the level of Aj .
For the purposes of this discussion , the problem of relative prices is encompassed in these two variables , since GNP includes other prices .
( We abstract here from technological progress and assume that prices of all other products change proportionately .
)
The form of the industry demand function is one which makes quantity demanded vary inversely with the product price , and vary directly with the level of Aj .
C .
Industry product price policy
The industry of this model is so important that its wage and price policies are affected with a public interest .
Because of its importance , and because the lack of price competition is well recognized , the industry is under considerable public pressure not to raise its price any more than could be justified by cost increases .
The threat of effective anti-trust action , provoked by `` gouging the public '' through price increases not justified by cost increases , and fears of endangering relations with customers , Congress , the general public and the press , all operate to keep price increases in some relation to cost increases .
For the industry of this model , the effect of such public pressures in the past has been to hold the price well below the short-run profit-maximizing price ( given the wage rate and the level of GNP ) , and even below the entry-limited price ( but not below average cost ) .
For such an industry , it is only `` safe '' to raise its price if such an increase is manifestly `` justified '' by rising costs ( due to rising wages , etc. ) .
Thus , if public pressure sets the effective limit to the price that the industry may charge , this pressure is itself a function of the wage rate .
In this model , we abstract from all non-wage sources of cost changes , so that the `` public-limit price '' only rises as the wage rate rises .
In such circumstances , it may well be to the advantage of the industry to allow an increase in the basic wage rate .
Since marginal costs rise when the wage rate rises , the profit-maximizing price also rises when the public-limit price is elevated , and is likely to remain well above the latter .
The entry-limiting price will also be raised for potential domestic competition , but unless general inflation permits profit margins to increase proportionately throughout the economy , we might expect the public-limit price to approach the entry-limit price .
The foreign-entry-limit price would be approached more rapidly , since domestic wage-rates do not enter foreign costs directly .
Where this approach becomes critical , the industry can be expected to put much emphasis on this as evidence of its sincerity in `` resisting '' the wage pressures of a powerful union , requesting tariff relief after it has `` reluctantly '' acceded to the union pressure .
Whether or not it is in the industry's interest to allow the basic wage rate to rise obviously depends upon the extent to which the public-limit price rises in response to a basic wage increase , and the relation of this response to the increase in costs accompanying the wage increase .
The extent to which the public-limit price is raised by a given increase in the basic wage rate is itself a function of three things : the passage of time , the level of GNP , and the size of the wage increase .
We are abstracting from the fact of strikes here , but it should be obvious that the extent to which the public-limit price is raised by a given increase in the basic wage rate is also a function of the show of resistance put up by the industry .
The industry may deliberately take a strike , not to put pressure on the union , but in order to `` educate '' the government and the customers of the industry .
As a strike continues , these parties increase their pressure on the industry to reach an agreement .
They become increasingly willing to accept the price increase that the industry claims the wage bargain would entail .
Public indignation and resistance to wage-price increases is obviously much less when the increases are on the order of 3% per annum than when the increases are on the order of 3% per month .
The simple passage of an additional eleven months' time makes the second 3% boost more acceptable .
Thus , the public-limit price is raised further by a given wage increase the longer it has been since the previous price increase .
Notice , however , that the passage of time does not permit the raising of prices per se , without an accompanying wage increase .
Similarly , higher levels of GNP do not , in themselves , provide grounds for raising prices , but they do relax some of the pressure on the industry so that it can raise prices higher for a given wage increase .
This is not extended to anticipated levels of GNP , however -- only the current level of GNP affects the public pressure against wage-price increases .
Finally , since the public requires some restraint on the part of the companies , larger wage increases call for less than proportionately larger price increases ( e.g. , if a wage increase of 5% allows a price increase of 7% , a wage increase of 10% allows a price increase of something less than 14% ) .
D .
Industry costs
We assume that average total unit cost in the relevant region of operation is constant with respect to quantity produced ( the average cost curve is horizontal , and therefore is identical with the marginal cost curve ) , and is the same for every firm ( and therefore for the industry ) .
The level of this average cost is determined by factor prices , technology , and so forth .
As we have noted , however , we are abstracting from changes in all determinants of this level except for changes in the wage rate .
The level of average cost ( equal to marginal cost ) is thus strictly a function of the wage rate .
E .
Union policies and collective bargaining issues
The single union which faces the industry does not restrict its membership , and there is an adequate supply of labor available to the firms of the industry at the going wage rate .
The union does not regard unemployment of its own members as a matter of concern when setting its own wage policy -- its concern with employment makes itself felt in pressure upon the government to maintain full employment .
The union vigorously demands wage increases from productivity increases , and wage increases to offset cost-of-living increases , but we abstract from these forces here .
For our present purposes we assume that the sole subject of bargaining is the basic wage rate ( not including productivity improvement factors or cost-of-living adjustments ) , and it is this basic wage rate which determines the level of costs .
Productivity is something of an amorphous concept and the amount of productivity increase in a given time period is not even well known to the industry , much less to the union or to the public .
Disagreement on the amount of productivity increase exacerbates the problem of agreeing how an increase in profit margins related to a productivity increase should be shared .
The existence of conflict and of vigorous union demand for an increase in money wages does not contradict the assumption that the union is willing to settle for cost-of-living and productivity-share increases as distinct from a cost-raising increase in the basic wage rate .
We assume further that the union recognizes the possibility that price-level increases may offset wage-rate increases , and it does not entirely disregard the effect of price increases arising from its own wage increases upon the `` real '' wage rate .
For internal political reasons , the union asks for ( and accepts ) increases in the basic wage rate , and would vigorously oppose a reduction in this rate , but the adjustment of the basic wage rate upwards is essentially up to the discretion of the companies of the industry .
Changes in the basic wage rate are cost-raising , and they constitute an argument for raising prices .
However , it is not known to either the union or the public precisely how much of a cost increase is caused by a given change in the basic wage rate , although the companies are presumed to have reliable estimates of this magnitude .
In this model , then , the industry is presumed to realize that they could successfully resist a change in the basic wage rate , but since such a change is the only effective means to raising prices they may , in circumstances to be spelled out in Part 2 , below , find it to their advantage to allow the wage rise .
Thus , for non-negative changes in the basic wage rate , the industry becomes the active wage-setter , since any increase in the basic wage rate can occur only by reason of industry acquiescence .
The presumption in the literature would appear to be that the basic wage rate would be unchanged in this case , on the grounds that it is `` clearly '' not in the interest of the industry to raise wages gratuitously .
From this presumption it is an easy step to the conclusion that any observed increases in the basic wage rate must be due to union behavior different and more aggressive than assumed in our model .
It is this conclusion that we challenge ; ;
we do so by disproving the presumption on which it is based .
2 , the operation of the model
It is convenient to assume that the union-industry contract is of one year's duration .
In the century from 1815 to 1914 the law of nations became international law .
Several factors contributed to this change .
The Congress of Vienna is a convenient starting point because it both epitomized and symbolized what was to follow .
Here in 1815 the great nations assembled to legislate not merely for Europe , but for the world .
Thus the Congress marks a formal recognition of the political system that was central to world politics for a century .
International law had to fit the conditions of Europe , and nothing that could not fit this system , or the interests of the great European nations collectively , could possibly emerge as law in any meaningful sense .
Essentially this imposed two conditions : First , international law had to recognize and be compatible with an international political system in which a number of states were competitive , suspicious , and opportunistic in their political alignments with one another ; ;
second , it had to be compatible with the value system that they shared .
In both respects , international law was Europeanized .
It was not always easy to develop theory and doctrine which would square the two conditions .
On the one hand , the major European nations had to maintain vis-a-vis each other an emphasis upon sovereignty , independence , formal equality -- thus insuring for themselves individually an optimal freedom of action to maintain the `` flexibility of alignment '' that the system required and to avoid anything approaching a repetition of the disastrous Napoleonic experience .
But there was no pressing need to maintain these same standards with regard to most of the rest of the world .
Thus , theory and doctrine applicable among the great nations and the smaller European states did not really comfortably fit less developed and less powerful societies elsewhere .
Political interference in Africa and Asia and even in Latin America ( though limited in Latin America by the special interest of the United States as expressed in the Monroe Doctrine , itself from the outset related to European politics and long dependent upon the `` balance of power '' system in Europe ) was necessary in order to preserve both common economic values and the European `` balance '' itself .
A nation such as Switzerland could be neutralized by agreement and could be relied upon to protect its neutrality ; ;
more doubtful , but possible , ( with an assist from the North ) was the neutralization of the Latin American countries ; ;
out of the question was the neutralization of Asia and Africa .
This Europeanization of the law was made explicit by a number of 19th century scholars .
More emphasis was put upon the fact that international law was the law of `` civilized nations '' ; ;
Kent and Story , the great early American scholars , repeatedly made use of this phrase , or of `` Christian nations '' , which is a substantial equivalent .
Wheaton stated that the public law was essentially `` limited to the civilized and Christian peoples of Europe or to those of European origin '' .
Of course it had always been of European origin in fact , but it had maintained a universal outlook under the natural law theory .
Now , with virtually every writer , not only was the European origin of public law acknowledged as a historical phenomenon , but the rules thus established by the advanced civilizations of Europe were to be imposed on others .
The European customs on which international law was based were to become , by force and fiat , the customs that others were to accept as law if they were to join this community as sovereign states .
Hall , for example , was quite explicit on this point when he said states outside European civilization must formally enter into the circle of law-governed countries .
They must do something with the acquiescence of the latter , or some of them , which amounts to an acceptance of the law in its entirety beyond all possibility of misconstruction '' .
During the nineteenth century these views were protested by virtually all the Latin American writers , though ineffectively , just as the new nations of Africa and Asia protest them , with more effect , today .
A number of other nineteenth-century developments contributed to the transmutation of the law of nations into international law ; ;
that is , from aspects of a universal system of Justice into particular rules governing the relations of sovereign states .
The difference is important , for although the older law of nations did cover relationships among sovereigns , this was by no means its exclusive domain .
The law of nature governed sovereigns in their relationship to their own citizens , to foreigners , and to each other in a conceptually unified system .
The theory of international law , which in the nineteenth century became common to virtually all writers in Europe and America , broke this unity and this universality .
It lost sight of the individual almost entirely and confined itself to rules limiting the exercise of state power for reasons essentially unconnected with justice or morality save as these values might affect international relations .
No longer did the sovereign look to the law of nations to determine what he ought to do ; ;
his search was merely for rules that might limit his freedom of action .
To appreciate this development , we must relate it to other aspects of nineteenth-century philosophy .
First , and most obvious , was the growing nationalism and the tendency to regard the state , and the individual's identification with the state , as transcending other ties of social solidarity .
National identification was not new , but it was accelerating in intensity and scope throughout Europe as new unifications occurred .
It reached its ultimate philosophical statement in notions of `` state will '' put forward by the Germans , especially by Hegel , although political philosophers will recognize its origins in the rejected doctrines of Hobbes .
National identification was reflected jurisprudentially in law theories which incorporated this Hegelian abstraction and saw law , domestic and international , simply as its formal reflection .
In the international community this reduced law to Jellinek's auto-limitation .
A state , the highest form of human organization in fact and theory , could be subjected to Law only by a manifestation of self-will , or consent .
According to the new theories , the nineteenth century corporate sovereign was `` sovereign '' in a quite new and different sense from his historical predecessors .
He no longer sought to find the law ; ;
he made it ; ;
he could be subjected to law only because he agreed to be .
There was no law , domestic or international , except that willed by , acknowledged by , or consented to by states .
Hidden behind Hegelian abstractions were more practical reasons for a changing jurisprudence .
Related to , but distinguishable from , nationalism was the growth of democracy in one form or another .
Increased participation in politics and the demands of various groups for status and recognition had dramatic effects upon law institutions .
The efforts of various interest groups to control or influence governmental decisions , particularly when taken in conjunction with the impact of industralization , led to a concentration of attention on the legislative power and the means whereby policy could be formulated and enforced as law through bureaucratic institutions .
Law became a conscious process , something more than simply doing justice and looking to local customs and a common morality for applicable norms .
Particularly was this true when the norms previously applied were no longer satisfactory to many , when customs were rapidly changing as the forces of the new productivity were harnessed .
The old way of doing things , which depended on a relatively stable community with stable ideas dealing with familiar situations , was no longer adequate to the task .
First was the period of codification of existing law : the Code Napoleon in France and the peculiar codification that , in fact , resulted from Austin's restatement and ordering of the Common Law in England .
Codification was followed in all countries by a growing amount of legislation , some changing and adjusting the older law , much dealing with entirely new situations .
The legislative mills have been grinding ever since , and when its cumbersome processes were no longer adequate to the task , a limited legislative authority was delegated in one form or another , to the executive .
Whereas the eighteenth century had been a time in which man sought justice , the nineteenth and twentieth have been centuries in which men are satisfied with law .
Indeed , with developed positivism , the separation of law from justice , or from morality generally , became quite specific .
In municipal systems we tend to view what is called positivism as fundamentally a movement to democratize policy by increasing the power of parliament -- the elected representatives -- at the expense of the more conservative judiciary .
When the power of the latter was made both limited and explicit -- when norms were clarified and made more precise and the creation of new norms was placed exclusively in parliamentary hands -- two purposes were served : Government was made subservient to an institutionalized popular will , and law became a rational system for implementing that will , for serving conscious goals , for embodying the `` public policy '' .
It is true that , initially , the task was to remove restrictions that , it was thought , inhibited the free flow of money , goods , and labor ; ;
but even laissez-faire was a conscious policy .
Law was seen as an emanation of the `` sovereign will '' .
However , the sovereign was not Hobbes' absolute monarch but rather the parliamentary sovereign of Austin .
It was , too , an optimistic philosophy , and , though it separated law from morality , it was by no means an immoral or amoral one .
Man , through democratic institutions of government and economic freedom , was master of his destiny .
The theory did not require , though it unfortunately might acquire , a Hegelian mystique .
It was merely a rationalization and ordering of new institutions of popular government .
It was not opposed to either justice or morality ; ;
it merely wished to minimize subjective views of officials who wielded public authority .
Particularly was this true as laissez-faire capitalism became the dominant credo of Western society .
To free the factors of production was a major objective of the rising bourgeoisie , and this objective required that governmental authority -- administrative officials and judges -- be limited as precisely and explicitly as possible ; ;
that old customs which inhibited trade be abrogated ; ;
that business be free from governmental supervision and notions of morality which might clog the automatic adjustments of the free market ; ;
that obligations of status that were inconsistent with the new politics and the new economics be done away with .
Contract -- conceived as the free bargain of formal equals -- replaced the implied obligations of a more static and status-conscious society .
Indeed , contract was the dominant legal theme of the century , the touchstone of the free society .
Government itself was based upon contract ; ;
business organization -- the corporation -- was analyzed in contractual terms ; ;
trade was based on freedom of contract , and money was lent and borrowed on contractual terms ; ;
even marriage and the family was seen as a contractual arrangement .
It is not surprising that the international obligations of states were also viewed in terms of contract .
In fact , some -- Anzilotti is the principle example -- went so far as to say that all international law could be traced to the single legal norm , Pacta sunt Servanda .
The displacement ( at least to a considerable extent ) of the ethical jurisprudence of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries by positivism reshaped both international law theory and doctrine .
In the first place the new doctrine brought a formal separation of international from municipal law , rejecting the earlier view that both were parts of a universal legal system .
One result was to nationalize much that had been regarded as the law of nations .
Admiralty law , the law merchant , and the host of problems which arise in private litigation because of some contact with a foreign country were all severed from the older Law of Nations and made dependent on the several national laws .
Private international law ( which Americans call the `` conflict of laws '' ) was thus segregated from international law proper , or , as it is often called , public international law .
States were free to enact , within broad , though ( perhaps ) determinate limits , their own rules as to the application of foreign law by their courts , to vary the law merchant , and to enact legislation with regard to many claims arising on the high seas .
The change was not quite so dramatic as it sounds because in fact common norms continued to be invoked by municipal courts and were only gradually changed by legislation , and then largely in marginal situations .
Mr. Justice Black was one of the minority that rested on the Article 1 , power .
In this view , supported by only three members of the Court , a power denied by the specific provisions of Article 3 , was granted by the generality of Article 1 .
If this seems arbitrary , its effect was to treat citizens of the District of Columbia equally with citizens of the states -- at the expense of expanding a troublesome jurisdiction .
Federal question jurisdiction
For almost a hundred years we relied upon state courts ( subject to review by the Supreme Court ) for the protection of most rights arising under national law .
Then in 1875 , apparently in response to the nationalizing influence of the Civil War , Congress first gave the lower federal courts general authority -- concurrently with state tribunals -- to decide cases involving federal-right questions .
One purpose of the change was to attain sympathetic enforcement of rights insured by the Civil War amendments against state interference .
Serious difficulty arose with the advent of Substantive Due Process .
An amendment , presumably designed to deal with the problems of newly freed slaves , became a `` laissez-faire '' limitation upon state economic policy .
A flood of federal lower court injunctions seriously impeded the processes of local government .
Congress reacted with a series of measures modifying in various ways what it had granted in 1875 .
In 1910 it required the convening of a special three-judge court for the issuance of certain injunctions and allowed direct appeals to the Supreme Court .
Such legislation was clarified and extended from time to time thereafter .
In 1913 an abortive provision was made for the stay of federal injunction proceedings upon institution of state court test cases .
The essential ineffectiveness of these measures resulted in 1934 in substantial elimination of federal jurisdiction to enjoin state public utility rate orders .
Three years later similar restraints were imposed upon injunctions against collection of state taxes .
This saved for state adjudication , in the first instance , the two major areas where federal injunctions had been most obnoxious , but other areas remained vulnerable .
Meanwhile , the Supreme Court , like Congress , showed misgivings concerning this aspect of government by injunction .
Drawing upon the traditional discretion of the chancellor , Mr. Justice Holmes introduced a series of self-imposed judicial restraints that culminated in Mr. Justice Frankfurter's famous doctrine of abstention .
Whereas the earlier cases turned rather narrowly upon the availability of adequate state remedies , the new emphasis is upon the nature of the state policy at issue .
The classic case is Railroad Commission v. Pullman .
The commission had issued an administrative order which was challenged as discriminatory against Negroes .
Its enforcement was enjoined by a federal trial court .
On review the Supreme Court , via Mr. Justice Frankfurter , found southern racial problems `` a sensitive area of social policy on which the federal courts ought not to enter unless no alternative to adjudication is open '' .
An alternative was found in the vagueness of state law as to whether the offending order had in fact been authorized .
Reluctant , as usual , to interpret state legislation -- such interpretation can only be a `` forecast rather than a determination '' -- Mr. Justice Frankfurter led a unanimous Court to vacate the injunction .
But it is crucial that here , unlike Burford , the trial court was ordered to retain the case until the state courts had had a reasonable opportunity to settle the state-law question .
`` The resources of equity are equal to an adjustment that will avoid the waste of a tentative decision as well as the friction of a premature constitutional adjudication '' .
Temporary abstention , i.e. , postponement , is one thing ; ;
refusal to adjudicate is another .
To the extent that the jurisdictional principle of 1875 stands unmodified by subsequent legislation , federal equitable relief against state action must be available -- or so it seems to Mr. Justice Frankfurter .
In Alabama Public Service Commission v. Southern Ry. Co. , the commission had refused to permit abandonment of certain `` uneconomic '' train facilities .
The railroad , claiming deprivation of property without due process of law , sought injunctive relief .
The Court held that federal jurisdiction should not be exercised lest the domestic policy of the state be obstructed ; ;
this in the name of equitable discretion .
Justices Frankfurter and Jackson concurred in the Court's result , for they found no merit in the railroad's claim .
But they objected vigorously to the proposition that federal courts may refuse to exercise jurisdiction conferred in a valid act of Congress :
`` By one fell swoop the Court now finds that Congress indulged in needless legislation in the acts of 1910 , 1913 , 1925 , 1934 and 1937 .
By these measures , Congress , so the Court ( in effect ) now decides , gave not only needless but inadequate relief , since it now appears that the federal courts have inherent power to sterilize the Act of 1875 against all proceedings challenging local regulation '' .
A most revealing recent case is Textile Workers Union v. Lincoln Mills .
The Taft-Hartley Act gave the federal courts jurisdiction over `` suits for violation of contracts between an employer and a labor organization representing employees in an industry affecting commerce '' .
On its face this merely provides a federal forum ; ;
it does not establish any law ( rights ) for the federal judges to enforce .
How can judges exercise jurisdiction to enforce national rights when Congress has created none ? ?
The Court held that Congress had intended the federal judiciary to `` fashion '' an appropriate law of labor-management contracts .
In short , congressional power to grant federal-question authority to federal courts is now apparently so broad that Congress need not create , or specify , the right to be enforced .
The Lincoln Mills decision authorizes a whole new body of federal `` common law '' which , as Mr. Justice Frankfurter pointed out in dissent , leads to one of the following `` incongruities '' : `` ( ( 1 ) conflict in federal and state court interpretations of collective bargaining agreements ; ;
( 2 ) displacement of state law by federal law in state courts in all actions regarding collective bargaining agreements ; ;
or ( 3 ) exclusion of state court jurisdiction over these matters '' .
The Justice's elaborate examination of the legislative history of the provision in question suggests that Congress' purpose was merely to make unions suable .
With a few exceptions , the lawmakers seemed unaware of the technical problems of federal jurisdiction involved -- to say nothing of the delegation of lawmaking power to judges .
To avoid these constitutional difficulties , Mr. Justice Frankfurter was prepared to read the Taft-Hartley provision as concerned with diversity , rather than federal question , jurisdiction .
This would satisfy what presumably was Congress' major purpose -- the suability of unions .
It would also leave intact the states' traditional authority in the realm of contract law .
( As we have seen , the Erie and York decisions require federal courts in diversity cases to follow state decisional rules .
) Here again Mr. Justice Frankfurter could not lightly accept the principle of wholesale judicial legislation .
If Congress wants to displace the states from areas which they have customarily occupied , let it do so knowingly and explicitly .
And let it do its own lawmaking and not leave that to federal judges .
Does Lincoln Mills suggest that if Congress granted jurisdiction over interstate divorce cases , the federal courts would be authorized to fashion a national law for the dissolution of marriages ? ?
There is a common problem behind most of these federal question and diversity cases .
Congress has not clearly defined the bounds between state and federal court competence .
It has the power to do so but for the most part has left the matter for solution by judges on a case-by-case basis .
A careful student has suggested that `` In any new revision ( of the Judicial Code ) the legislators would do well to remember that the allocation of power to the federal courts should be limited to those matters in which their expertise in federal law might be used , leaving to the state judiciaries the primary obligation of pronouncing state law '' .
Obviously , the goal here proposed is the guiding principle in Mr. Justice Frankfurter's opinions -- to the extent that Congress leaves the problem to judicial discretion .
The same rule of specialization and division of labor guides him in the FELA certiorari cases , in the administrative law area , and indeed in the whole realm of judicial review .
Mr. Justice Black no doubt concurs in principle but is more apt to make exceptions to achieve a generous and `` just '' result .
He will not be `` fooled by technicalities '' .
Federal review of state decisions
With few exceptions , Congress has not given federal courts exclusive authority to enforce rights arising under federal law .
To put it differently , state and federal courts have concurrent jurisdiction with respect to most claims of federal right .
To insure uniformity in the meaning of national law , however , state interpretations are subject to Supreme Court review .
It may be noted , parenthetically , that to evade `` desegregation '' an ex-Justice and former southern governor has urged Congress to abolish this reviewing authority .
The result , of course , would be that federal law inevitably would mean different things in different states .
It would also probably mean different things within the same state -- depending upon what court ( state or federal ) rendered decision .
We consider here only a few of many problems involved in this crucial federal-state relationship .
The first is that enforcement of national law in state litigation raises in reverse the old diversity puzzle of the relation of procedure to substance .
Subject to certain constitutional restraints in favor of fair trials , each level of government is free to devise its own judicial procedures .
Litigants who choose to assert federal claims in a state court go into that court subject to its rules of procedure .
A similar canon applies to those who press state claims in federal tribunals , e.g. , in diversity cases .
In an FELA controversy the state court followed established state procedure by construing a vague complaint `` most strongly against '' the complainant .
In other words the burden of pleading clearly rested upon the pleader by state law .
The result was that the plaintiff's case was dismissed .
Mr. Justice Black led a reversing majority : `` Strict local rules of pleading cannot be used to impose unnecessary burdens upon rights of recovery authorized by federal law '' .
Here , as in the Byrd case , another element of state procedure was subsumed to federal judge-made law .
Justices Frankfurter and Jackson dissented : `` One State may cherish formalities more than another , one State may be more responsive than another to procedural reforms .
If a litigant chooses to enforce a Federal right in a State court , he cannot be heard to object if he is treated exactly as are plaintiffs who press like claims arising under State law with regard to the form in which the claim must be stated -- the particularity , for instance , with which a cause of action must be described .
Federal law , though invoked in a State court , delimits the Federal claim -- defines what gives a right to recovery and what goes to prove it .
But the form in which the claim must be stated need not be different from what the State exacts in the enforcement of like obligations created by it , so long as a requirement does not add to , or diminish , the right as defined by Federal law , nor burden the realization of this right in the actualities of litigation '' .
Another problem in the area of federal-state relationships is this : what constitutes reversible error in a state decision ? ?
Terminiello v. Chicago involved a conviction for disorderly conduct under a local ordinance .
The conduct in question was a speech .
The accused did not object to the trial court's charge to the jury that discourse `` may constitute a breach of the peace if it stirs the public to anger , invites dispute , brings about a condition of unrest .
'' For present purposes it may be assumed that this charge so narrowly limited speech as to violate the federal Constitution .
Though the accused raised many other objections , he did not object on this crucial point at any stage of the proceedings .
That is , he did not claim in any of the four courts through which his case progressed that the jury charge had denied him any federal right .
How else can one explain , for example , allowing the survival of the right to amortize bond discount and premium ( section 381(c)(9) ) , but not the right to amortize bond issue expenses ; ;
or allowing a deduction for payment of certain obligations of a transferor assumed in the reorganization ( section 381(c)(16) ) , but not a deduction for theft losses sustained by a transferor prior to a reorganization but discovered after it ; ;
or requiring a transferor to carry over its method of depreciation ( section 381(c)(6) ) , but not allowing rapid amortization of emergency facilities transferred in a reorganization ; ;
or allowing survival of a dividend carryover to a personal holding company ( section 381(c)(14) ) , but not carryover of excess tax credits for foreign taxes ? ?
These items , and most of the others listed above , seem quite comparable to items whose right of survival is provided for in section 381 .
There does not seem to be any reasonable basis for distinction either in terms of the nature of the tax attribute or in terms of tax-avoidance possibilities .
With respect to items such as these the provisions of section 381(c) , viewed in historical perspective , suggest a rule requiring survival , whether the items are beneficial or detrimental to the surviving corporation .
To this extent some stretching of the literal meaning of the Committee Report seems justified , since the literal meaning conflicts with the clear implication , if not the language , of the statute .
It is not contended that section 381 should prescribe the survival of all of the transferor's tax attributes .
Such an interpretation could not be justified by a construction of the statute alone ; ;
it would certainly violate the intention of Congress as expressed in the Committee Report ; ;
and in at least one instance , involving refund claims , it might be contrary to another provision of the United States Code .
Refund claims
Section 203 of the United States Code voids an assignment of a claim against the Government unless made after it has been allowed , the amount due has been ascertained , and a warrant for its payment has been issued .
If it were not for judicial development of certain exceptions , this section would prohibit a suit for refund by an acquiring corporation for taxes paid by a transferor corporation , even though the reorganization meets the requirements of section 381(a) .
A clearly recognized exception is a statutory merger or consolidation .
The leading case , Seaboard Air Line Railway v. United States , held that the transferee could sue for a refund of taxes paid by the transferor , and it has been consistently followed .
The Court said the purpose of the section was principally to spare the Government the embarrassment and trouble of dealing with several parties , one of them a stranger to the claim , and to prevent traffic in claims , particularly tenuous claims , against the Government .
Neither reason , said the Court , applied to the case at hand ; ;
furthermore , Congress could not be presumed to have intended to obstruct mergers approved by the states .
Other exceptions are assignments for the benefit of creditors , corporate dissolutions , transfers by descent , or transfers by subrogation .
Exceptions are often classified as transfers by `` operation of law '' .
A tax-free reorganization not complying with the merger or consolidation statutes of the states involved is difficult to fit into an `` operation of law '' mold .
Although it is in some ways comparable to a voluntary sale of assets for cash , to which section 203 quite clearly applies , the courts and Treasury have held that acquiring corporations in several types of non-taxable reorganizations may sue for refund of taxes paid by transferors .
A recent case in point is Mitchell Canneries v. United States , in which a claim against the Government was transferred first from a corporation to a partnership , whose partners were former stockholders , and then to another corporation formed by the partners .
Holding the final corporation entitled to sue on the claim , the Court cited the Seaboard , Novo Trading , and Roomberg cases for the proposition that `` transfers by operation of law or in conjunction with changes of corporate structure are not assignments prohibited by the statute '' .
In an earlier case , Kingan & Co. v. United States , an American corporation was formed for the purpose of acquiring the stock of a British corporation in exchange for its own stock and then liquidating the British corporation .
The anti-assignment statute was held not to prevent the American corporation from suing for a refund of taxes paid by the British corporation .
The transaction presumably would have qualified under section 368(a)(1) as a contractual reorganization , followed by a section 332 liquidation , but not under section 368(a)(1) as a statutory merger of consolidation .
The Court , nevertheless , relied on the Seaboard case and also mentioned that the shareholders of the two corporations were the same .
In substance , said the Court , there was no transfer of equitable title .
The Treasury arrives at substantially the same conclusion , but skirts the problem of section 203 of the United States Code .
Revenue Ruling 54-17 provides that if the corporation against which a tax was assessed has since been liquidated by merger with a successor corporation , a claim for refund should be filed by the successor in the name and on behalf of the corporation which paid the tax , followed by the name of the successor corporation .
Proper evidence of the liquidation and succession must also be filed .
If the succession is a matter of public record , certificates of the Secretaries of State or other public officials having custody of the documents will suffice ; ;
if the succession is not of record , all documents relating to such succession , properly certified , are required .
The former proof seems applicable to a statutory merger or consolidation , the latter to a contractual acquisition .
The Ruling would not , however , apply to an acquisition of assets for cash .
A recent Ruling , although rather confusing , cites and follows Rev. Rul. 54-17 .
The Ruling suggests also that it applies to either a statutory or contractual reorganization .
Hence , a successor corporation in a C reorganization appears entitled to sue for a refund of taxes paid by the merged corporation despite section 203 .
In a B reorganization , followed by a section 332 liquidation , those cases which hold that section 203 is inapplicable to transfers in liquidation appear to permit the successor corporation to sue for refund of taxes paid by the transferor .
In fact , a cash purchase of a corporation's stock followed by liquidation might also be an effective way to transfer a claim for refund if the Kimbell-Diamond doctrine is not applied to eliminate the intermediate step .
These results appear sound .
As stated in Seaboard and numerous other cases , the two primary reasons for the enactment of section 203 of the United States Code were to prevent the Government from having to deal with more than one claimant and to prevent the assignment of meretricious claims on a contingent-fee basis .
The cases have allowed transfer of claims if beneficial ownership is not changed .
The first reason would never apply to a reorganization transfer which meets the conditions of section 381(a) , which is the only type presently under discussion .
Section 381(a) applies only to a transfer by liquidation of a subsidiary owned to the extent of at least 80 per cent , a statutory merger or consolidation , an acquisition of substantially all a corporation's assets solely in exchange for voting stock , or a change of identity , form , or place of organization .
In virtually every case the transferor corporation is liquidated , and its former stockholders either own outright , or have a continuing stock interest in , the assets which gave rise to the tax .
In these circumstances the possibility of multiple or conflicting claims is exceedingly remote .
Furthermore , in a C reorganization the continuing interest of stockholders of the corporation which paid the tax must be greater than is necessary in a statutory merger , to which the statute is clearly inapplicable .
Nor is it at all likely that a `` desperate '' claim against the Government will be assigned on a contingent-fee basis in the guise of a tax-free reorganization .
If the transferor has substantial assets other than the claim , it seems reasonable to assume no corporation would be willing to acquire all of its properties in the dim hope of collecting a claim for refund of taxes .
If such an unlikely transaction were to take place , it would more logically be accomplished by a stock purchase , followed by the prosecution of the claim by the wholly-owned subsidiary , followed by liquidation .
In the rare case where a corporation's only substantial asset , or its most important one , is a claim for refund , perhaps its transfer should not be permitted , whether the reorganization takes the form of a statutory merger or of the acquisition of assets for stock .
It appears , then , that although the matter is not dealt with in section 381(c) , a successor corporation in a reorganization of a type specified in section 381(a) is entitled to sue for refund of taxes paid by a transferor corporation .
Section 203 of the United States Code has been interpreted as not applying to claims against the Government transferred in tax-free reorganizations .
The successor corporations have been held entitled to sue on such claims .
Other tax attributes of the transferor
There are certain tax attributes of a corporation whose nature and effect might depend on the facts of the particular reorganization involved .
For example , property `` used in the trade or business '' of a transferor corporation , as defined in section 1231 , presumably would not retain its special status following a non-taxable reorganization if it is not so used in the business of the acquiring corporation .
The parent of a group filing consolidated returns might be treated as the same corporation following a reorganization defined in section 368(a)(1) , but as a different corporation for this purpose after a tax-free acquisition by another corporation which had not , for example , elected to file consolidated returns with its own subsidiaries .
Similar considerations presumably made it difficult to prescribe a general rule where the acquired and acquiring corporations have different methods of accounting ( section 381(c)(4) ) or depreciation ( section 381(c)(6) ) .
Other sections of the 1954 Internal Revenue Code provide for survival of certain of a transferor's tax attributes following a tax-free reorganization .
Section 362 requires carryover of the transferor corporation's basis for property transferred , and section 1223 provides for tacking on the transferor's holding period for such property to that of the transferee .
Section 169 permits a person acquiring grain-storage facilities to elect to continue amortization over a 60-month period .
However , a similar privilege was not specifically provided in section 168 for a person acquiring emergency facilities .
Attributes similar to a loss carryover .
There may be certain items which are quite similar to a net operating loss carryover or operating deficit and whose right to survive a reorganization should perhaps be subject to the conditions applicable to those items .
For example , suppose another excess profits tax similar to prior laws is enacted , providing for carryover of excess profits credits .
This carryover right has a number of things in common with a net operating loss carryover .
It is an averaging device intended to ease the tax burden of fluctuating income ; ;
it is a tax benefit which might be of substantial value to a corporation which expects to have a high excess profits tax .
Under the 1939 Code this item was permitted to survive a tax-free reorganization in the Stanton Brewery case , but only over the dissent of Judge Learned Hand , who wrote the majority opinion in the Sansome case , a leading case requiring carryover of earnings and profits in a non-taxable reorganization .
Since this type of item was not in the statute when section 381 was enacted in 1954 , one cannot say with certainty what effect the enactment of that section should have .
With respect to this type of item , one might properly apply the language of the Committee Report , quoted above , which cautions against using section 381 as a basis for treating other tax attributes not mentioned therein .
Actually , there do not presently appear to be items in the statute comparable to a net operating loss carryover .
Probably the primary reason for special treatment of a net operating loss carryover is the unique opportunity it presents for tax avoidance .
A .
Reasons for selecting mail questionnaire method
There were two methods that could have been used for conducting the study within the resources available : ( 1 ) interviews in depth with a few selected companies , and ( 2 ) the more limited interrogation of a large number of companies by means of a mail questionnaire .
While the method of interviewing a small number of companies was appealing because of the opportunity it might have furnished to probe fully the reasons and circumstances of a company's practices and opinions , it also involved the risk of paying undue attention to the unique and peculiar problems of just a few individual companies .
As a result , it was decided that a mail questionnaire sent to a large number of companies would be more effective in determining the general practices and opinions of small firms and in highlighting some of the fundamental and recurring problems of defense procurement that concern both industry and government .
It was also hoped that responses to a mail questionnaire would suggest fruitful inquiries that might be made in subsequent studies of a more detailed nature .
It is recognized that a mail questionnaire has inherent limitations .
There is the danger that the questions will mean different things to different respondents .
Simple `` yes '' or `` no '' answers do not reveal the different shades of opinion that the various respondents may have .
A respondent may want to make alternative answers because he does not know the precise circumstances assumed in the question .
There is also the problem of the respondent's frame of reference .
Is the respondent making a recommendation for his own benefit , for the benefit of his industry , for the benefit of a specific government department or service , for the benefit of the defense program , for the benefit of small business , or for the benefit of the taxpayers ? ?
There is also the question of whether the respondent based his answers on factual information and carefully considered judgment , or whether his answers were casual guesses .
Finally , there is the question of how strongly an expressed opinion is held -- whether it is a firm opinion or one that the respondent favors only slightly over the alternatives .
The research team was very mindful of these dangers and limitations of a mail questionnaire .
Under the circumstances , however , the team considered it would provide the most useful information at this point .
In the preparation of the questionnaire the problems noted above were carefully considered , and the structure and phraseology used were designed to minimize the effects of these limitations .
B .
Design of the questionnaire
The questionnaire was designed to elicit three types of information : ( 1 ) the facts regarding certain characteristics of the respondents , including their experience with , and interest in , securing defense business ; ;
( 2 ) the actual selling and buying practices of the respondents ; ;
and ( 3 ) the attitudes and opinions of the respondents concerning bidding procedures and the methods of awarding defense contracts .
It was hoped that the facts concerning the characteristics and practices of the respondents would offer clues to the reasons why they took the positions and made the recommendations which they did .
The major sections of the questionnaire ( see Appendix B ) are devoted to the following : 1 .
Information for classifying respondents ( Part A of the questionnaire ) 2 .
Characteristics of defense sales activities ( Part B of the questionnaire ) 3 .
Respondents' practices in participating in advertised bidding for defense business ( Part C of the questionnaire ) 4 .
Respondents' practices in participating in negotiated bidding for defense purposes ( Part D of the questionnaire ) 5 .
Respondents' opinions regarding advertised bidding ( Part E of the questionnaire ) 6 .
Respondents' opinions regarding negotiated bidding ( Part F of the questionnaire ) 7 .
Respondents' preferences regarding the methods of awarding defense contracts ( Part G of the questionnaire )
The questionnaire provided a place for the name of the respondent but stated that identification of the respondent was optional .
The questionnaire also stated that , in any event , all replies would be treated confidentially .
It is interesting to note that 75 per cent of those who returned the questionnaire identified themselves .
C .
Preparation and pretest of the questionnaire
The research team prepared and then revised the questionnaire over a period of six months .
In June , 1960 , an early draft of the questionnaire , along with a cover letter , was mailed to fourteen companies in the state of Washington .
Several days after the companies had received the questionnaire , members of the research team contacted the presidents of eleven of these companies in person or by phone to discuss any ambiguities or difficulties the addressees might have experienced in completing the questionnaire .
This test resulted in further revisions of the questionnaire .
The research team was concerned that responses from firms in the state of Washington might not be typical of those throughout the country , or that the results might be different when no phone or personal follow-up was made .
Accordingly , another test of the questionaire was made .
The revised draft was mailed in July , 1960 , to 100 firms throughout the United States .
Fifty of the 100 firms were selected on a random basis from 3,500 names submitted by member companies of the Aerospace Industries Association ( AIA list ) and fifty were selected in a similar manner from a list of 1,500 names compiled by the research team from the Thomas Register ( TR list ) .
The method of compiling the AIA and TR lists will be described later .
Ten days after the questionnaires were mailed , follow-up airmail postcards were sent urging those companies which had not yet returned their questionnaires to do so at once .
Twenty-eight returns in all were received .
The responses were carefully checked for obvious errors in the answers or for questions that were apparently not understood by the respondent .
The cover letter , questionnaire , and follow-up postcard were then revised into final form ( see Appendixes A , B , and C ) .
D .
Compilation of mailing lists
The objective of the study was to determine the opinions and practices of small firms selling to defense programs .
The firms to receive the questionnaires were selected with this objective in mind .
Three lists of companies were made and used in the study .
The first was a list of fourteen manufacturing companies located in the state of Washington which were personally known to the research team to be active in defense work .
The primary consideration in the compilation of this list was convenience in discussing the questionnaire with company officers .
The second list was derived from a group of approximately 8,000 names supplied to the research team by the Aerospace Industries Association .
These names were secured from member companies by the Association from the forty-four sources listed in Appendix Aj .
Each source selected from its approved bidders list about 200 firms which it believed to be small businesses that participated in the production of weapons and weapon support systems .
Where possible , the name of an executive was supplied along with the company name and address .
The forty-four lists supplied by the AIA member companies were merged and duplicate names were eliminated .
There was further elimination of all companies that were not accompanied by the name of a responsible company executive .
The remaining names were then checked against the Thomas Register list ( see below ) and duplicate names were removed from the AIA lists .
By these steps the final AIA list was reduced from 8,000 to 3,500 .
The third list was selected by the research team on a random basis from the Thomas Register .
It was compiled as a control sample to determine if the opinions and practices of companies on the lists submitted by the members of the Aerospace Industries Association were materially different from those of other small firms selling to defense programs .
Such a difference might have resulted from : 1 .
The fact that the Aerospace Industries Association members whose lists were used did not comprise all firms engaged in defense programs .
2 .
The fact that companies on the AIA lists were already participating in the defense program because of the manner of their selection .
Accordingly , as `` in-group '' , they might have different opinions and practices than an `` out-group '' composed of those companies not so participating but interested in defense business .
3 .
The fact that AIA lists might not have been selected on a random basis .
The control sample was selected by taking the bottom name of each of the two columns of names on each page of the alphabetical listing of manufacturers in the Thomas Register .
If the bottom name in each column did not have a responsible executive identified , the next name above which identified such a responsible executive was substituted .
Fifteen hundred names were selected in this fashion .
E .
Mailing the questionnaire
Each questionnaire was mailed with a cover letter addressed personally to the president or other executive of each firm .
The questionnaires were mailed in Seattle , Washington , and sent by regular mail to addresses in the states of Idaho , Montana , Oregon , and Washington .
Airmail was used for the addresses outside the Pacific Northwest .
Each letter contained a postage-prepaid return envelope by regular mail for addresses in the Pacific Northwest , and by airmail for those outside the Pacific Northwest .
Approximately ten days after the questionnaire was mailed , a follow-up airmail postcard was sent to each of the original names .
The first test mailing ( to 14 companies ) was made in June , 1960 .
The second test mailing ( to 100 companies ) was made in July , 1960 .
The final mailing of the questionnaire was made late in August , 1960 , to 4,900 firms consisting of 3,450 from the AIA list and 1,450 from the TR list .
F .
Returns received
Over 1,000 returns were received within two weeks after the final mailing was made .
They continued to arrive until the end of December , 1960 , by which time a total of 1,343 returns were received representing 26.8 per cent of the 5,014 questionnaires sent out .
Fifty-seven returns could not be used because they were incomplete or received too late to be processed .
The remaining 1,286 returns that were processed came from the categories in Table 2 .
G .
Processing the returns
Each questionnaire was audited for obvious mistakes and for comments , and was identified by a serial number , by the source list from which the company name was selected , and by the geographical location of the company as determined by the postmark on the return envelope .
All responses , except comments , were numerically coded to permit use of data-processing equipment .
The codes were key-punched into IBM punch cards and verified .
Each return required three cards and involved key punching 228 digital columns .
In order to be able to properly relate the data for a single company each of the three cards comprising the set for each firm was identified with the appropriate serial number of the respondent .
The cards were then processed using standard IBM punch card equipment , including an IBM 650 computer .
The first step in processing was to analyze the returns from Questions 1 , 2 , and 3 to determine whether the respondents were large businesses or small businesses , in accordance with the definitions contained in ASPR Section 1-701 .
( see Chapter 2 .
) The results are shown in Table 3 .
The returns from companies classified as large businesses were set aside and not used because they were not relevant to a study of the opinions and practices of small firms .
The second step in processing was to compare the responses from companies on the AIA list with those from companies on the TR list in order to determine whether it would be appropriate to merge the responses for the purposes of the study .
The methods and results of this comparative analysis are described in Appendix Aj .
It was concluded that it would be appropriate to process the two groups of responses as a single sample of all small businesses engaged in , or wishing to sell to , defense programs .
In the first place , the two groups of firms , when combined , had characteristics and practices that were more representative of companies that were the subject of this study than did the firms from the AIA list alone .
The vast Central Valley of California is one of the most productive agricultural areas in the world .
During the summer of 1960 , it became the setting for a bitter and basic labor-management struggle .
The contestants in this economic struggle are the Agricultural Workers Organizing Committee ( AWOC ) of the AFL-CIO and the agricultural employers of the State .
By virtue of the legal responsibilities of the Department of Employment in the farm placement program , we necessarily found ourselves in the middle between these two forces .
It is not a pleasant or easy position , but one we have endeavored to maintain .
We have sought to be strictly neutral as between the parties , but at the same time we have been required frequently to rule on specific issues or situations as they arose .
Inevitably , one side was pleased and the other displeased , regardless of how we ruled .
Often the displeased parties interpreted our decision as implying favoritism toward the other .
We have consoled ourselves with the thought that this is a normal human reaction and is one of the consequences of any decision in an adversary proceeding .
It is disconcerting , nevertheless , to read in a labor weekly , `` Perluss knuckles down to growers '' , and then to be confronted with a growers' publication which states , `` Perluss recognizes obviously phony and trumped-up strikes as bona fide '' .
For a number of years , there have been sporadic attempts in California to organize farm workers .
These attempts met with little sucess for a variety of reasons .
They were inadequately financed , without experienced leadership , and lacked the general support of organized labor as a whole .
This past year the pattern has been different : The organizing program had the full support of the AFL-CIO , which supplied staff and money to the AWOC , as well as moral support .
Leadership was experienced and skillful , and financial resources were significant .
Regardless of where personal sympathies may lie as between the parties , failure to recognize these changed conditions would be to ignore the facts of life .
As a result of these changed conditions , the impact of the organizational effort on agricultural labor-management relations has been much greater than in the past .
The AWOC has been able to employ the traditional weapons of labor -- the strike and the picket line -- with considerable success , particularly in the area of wages .
By the very nature of the situation , it is the union which has been able to select the time and place to bring pressure upon management .
To date , at least , the strategy of the AWOC has been selective ; ;
that is to say , to concentrate on a particular crop or activity in a particular area at a strategic time , rather than any broadside engagement with management throughout an area or the State .
Primarily , we became involved in these disputes because of our referral obligations under our farm placement program .
Normally , because agricultural labor is not covered by unemployment insurance , we would not expect any issues to arise regarding benefit payments under the trade dispute provision of the Unemployment Insurance Code , although such a situation is quite within the realm of possibility .
But the current issues arose out of the Wagner-Peyser Act concerning referrals to an establishment where a labor dispute exists , and out of Public Law 78 and the Migrant Labor Agreement if Mexican nationals were employed at the ranch .
Most of us remember and think of the Wagner-Peyser Act in its historical sense , as a major milestone in the development of public placement services .
Infrequently do we think of it as a living , continuing , operating control over the system .
However , when labor disputes arise , its provisions come clearly into play .
California has accepted the provisions of that Act ( as have all other States ) by enacting into our Code ( Section 2051 ) a provision that
The State of California accepts the provisions of the Wagner-Peyser Act , and will observe and comply with the requirements of that act .
With respect to labor disputes , the Wagner-Peyser Act states only ,
In carrying out the provisions of this Act , the Secretary is authorized and directed to provide for the giving of notice of strikes or lock-outs to applicants before they are referred to employment .
Other provisions of the Act empower the Secretary to adopt regulations necessary to carry out its provisions , and he has done so .
The pertinent regulation for our purposes is Section 602.2 ( , ) , as follows :
Referrals in labor dispute situations .
No person shall be referred to a position the filling of which will aid directly or indirectly in filling a job which ( 1 ) is vacant because the former occupant is on strike or is being locked out in the course of a labor dispute , or ( 2 ) the filling of which is an issue in a labor dispute .
With respect to positions not covered by subparagraph ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of this paragraph , any individual may be referred to a place of employment in which a labor dispute exists , provided he is given written notice of such dispute prior to or at the time of his referral .
In analyzing this regulation , let us take the last sentence first .
It permits referrals under certain circumstances even when there is a labor dispute , provided the individual is given written notice of such a dispute .
Assume , for example , a situation where a farm has a packing shed and fields .
The packing shed workers go on strike .
There is no dispute involving fieldwork .
We concluded that we may refer workers to the fieldwork ( but not the packing shed work ) provided we give them written notice of the packing shed dispute .
So far , no troublesome cases have arisen under this provision .
It is the first part of the Regulation that is currently at issue .
Note that it prohibits referrals under either condition ( 1 ) or condition ( 2 ) .
Employer representatives have contended that the Secretary has gone beyond his authority by such a prohibition , on the grounds that the Wagner-Peyser Act requires only written notice to the prospective worker that a dispute exists .
Into court
The matter got into the courts this way : One of the early strikes called by the AWOC was at the DiGiorgio pear orchards in Yuba County .
We found that a labor dispute existed , and that the workers had left their jobs , which were then vacant because of the dispute .
Accordingly , under clause ( 1 ) of the Secretary's Regulation , we suspended referrals to the employer .
( Incidentally , no Mexican nationals were involved .
) The employer , seeking to continue his harvest , challenged our right to cease referrals to him , and sought relief in the Superior Court of Yuba County .
The court issued a temporary restraining order , directing us to resume referrals .
We , of course , obeyed the court order .
However , the Attorney General of California , at the request of the Secretary of Labor , sought to have the jurisdiction over the issue removed to the Federal District Court , on grounds that it was predominantly a Federal issue since the validity of the Secretary's Regulation was being challenged .
However , the Federal Court held that since the State had accepted the provisions of the Wagner-Peyser Act into its own Code , and presumably therefore also the regulations , it was now a State matter .
It accordingly refused to assume jurisdiction , whereupon the California Superior Court made the restraining order permanent .
Under that order , we have continued referring workers to the ranch .
A similar case arose at the Bowers ranch in Butte County , and the Superior Court of that county issued similar restraining orders .
The growers have strenuously argued that I should have accepted the Superior Court decisions as conclusive and issued statewide instructions to our staff to ignore this provision in the Secretary's Regulation .
I cannot accept that view , either as a lawyer or as an administrator .
Legal considerations
First , let us examine briefly some of the legal considerations involved .
It is an accepted juridical principle in California that a Superior Court decision does not constitute a binding legal precedent .
It is conclusive , unless appealed , only upon the particular parties to the particular action which was heard .
It is not binding upon another Superior Court , which could rule to the contrary .
Only when a decision is rendered by the District Court of Appeal ( or , of course , the Supreme Court ) is a binding precedent established .
In that event , we can correctly say that we have received an authoritative interpretation of the matter , and one which we can follow statewide with confidence that the policy will not be overthrown in other Superior Courts .
But over and beyond the compelling need for a binding precedent decision , I am convinced that the decisions of the Superior Courts which in effect nullify the Secretary's Regulation are not a correct interpretation of the Secretary's power under the Federal law .
I believe I am in good company in this view .
The Attorney General of California concurs in this interpretation and has filed an appeal from these decisions to the District Court of Appeal .
The Attorney General of the United States , in considering the power of the Secretary to issue similar regulations under the Wagner-Peyser Act relating to the interstate recruitment of farm workers , has rendered an opinion sustaining his authority .
Further , and as an evidence of legislative intent only , the Senate of the United States recently defeated by a substantial majority the `` Holland Amendment '' to the Fair Labor Standards Act , which would have specifically limited the regulatory authority of the Secretary in these matters .
Next , let us consider briefly the program and administrative implications of a failure on our part to pursue our appeals .
There is far too much at stake for all of the parties concerned to leave the matter hanging in midair .
The ramifications of the issue are enormous .
A decision to refer workers to jobs vacant because of a strike would have to be applied equally to nonagricultural situations , and might in effect place the public employment services in the position of acting as strikebreakers .
The public interest is so dominant in such an issue that I cannot be so presumptuous as to attempt to settle it by an administrative order based upon conclusions reached in a summary action in one or two Superior Courts in the State .
It is an issue which may well reach the Supreme Court of the United States before judicial finality is achieved .
As an administrator , I cannot place the Employment Service in California in jeopardy of being out of compliance with the Federal laws by my failure to pursue the avenues of appeal open to me .
To have applied statewide the decisions of the two cases heard in Superior Court , in my opinion , would have placed us clearly out of compliance with the Wagner-Peyser Act and would have immediately opened the way for the Secretary of Labor , were he so inclined , to notify the Governor of such noncompliance , set a date for hearing , and issue his finding .
The impact of noncompliance under the Wagner-Peyser Act is clear : the withdrawal of some $11 million a year of administrative funds which finance our employment service program or , as a corollary , the taking over by the Federal Government of its operation .
Thus far , the cases which have come before the courts have involved only the issue of referral where the job is vacant due to a strike -- condition ( 1 ) in the Regulation of the Secretary .
None has yet arisen under condition ( 2 ) , relating to referral to jobs `` the filling of which is an issue in a labor dispute '' .
Here the problem is essentially one of defining the word `` filling '' .
Should it be defined in a narrow sense to include only such elements as job specifications , union membership , union jurisdiction , and the like ? ?
Or should it have a broader connotation of including wage demands and other factors not necessarily associated with the mechanics of `` filling '' the job .
Because of the uncertainty of this definition , I solicited the interpretation of the Secretary of Labor .
He has advised me that the narrower interpretation is the proper one ; ;
that is , that if wages , for example , is the only issue in a labor dispute , and no workers have left their jobs because of the dispute , we may continue to make referrals .
9 .
Martin and Stendler present evidence that infants and young children can and do solve many problems at a relatively simple perceptual level simply by combining objects and counting them .
After they have developed concepts , they are free from the necessity of manipulating objects ; ;
they do symbolically what they once had to do concretely .
The ability to think seems to increase consistently with age .
One experiment showed the greatest one-year difference occurring between the eleventh and twelfth years .
10 .
Many studies indicate that elementary-school children's interests cover the whole field of science ; ;
that their questions indicate a genuine interest in social processes and events ; ;
and that as they mature their interests and capabilities change and broaden .
Emotional characteristics
How a child feels about himself , about other people , and about the tasks confronting him in school may have as much influence on his success in school as his physical and intellectual characteristics .
A considerable amount of evidence exists to show that an unhappy and insecure child is not likely to do well in school subjects .
Emotional maturity is the result of many factors , the principal ones being the experiences of the first few years of the child's life .
However , the teacher who understands the influence of emotions on behavior may be highly influential in helping pupils gain confidence , security , and satisfaction .
Concerning this responsibility of the teacher , suggestions for helping children gain better control of the emotions are presented in Chapter 11 .
The following generalizations about the emotional characteristics of elementary-school children may be helpful .
1 .
Typically , the young child's emotional reactions last for a relatively short time , as contrasted to those of an adult .
2 .
As the child grows older , his emotional reactions lead to `` moods '' , or emotional states drawn out over a period of time and expressed slowly , rather than in short , abrupt outbursts .
3 .
Studies of the growth and decline of children's fears indicate that fears due to strange objects , noises , falling , and unexpected movement decline during the preschool years , but that fears of the dark , of being alone , and of imaginary creatures or robbers increase .
4 .
Ridiculing a child for being afraid or forcing him to meet the feared situation alone are poor ways of dealing with the problem ; ;
more effective solutions include explanations , the example of another child , or conditioning by associating the feared object , place , or person with something pleasant .
5 .
Children need help in learning to control their emotions .
The young child learns from parents and teachers that temper tantrums , screaming , kicking , and hitting will not get him what he wants ; ;
the older child learns that intense emotional outbursts will not win approval by his peers , and , therefore , makes a real effort to control his emotions .
6 .
Children differ widely in their emotional responses .
Among infants the patterns of emotional responses are similar ; ;
as the influence of learning and environment are felt , emotional behavior becomes individualized .
Social characteristics
Although no national norms exist for the social development of children , the teacher can find a great deal of information concerning types of social behavior normally displayed by children at various age levels .
The following summary will give the student some idea about the social characteristics of elementary-school children ; ;
the student will certainly want to explore more deeply into the fascinating study of immature individuals , struggling to meet their developmental needs , and at the same time trying to learn the rules of the game in the ever-expanding number of groups in which they hold membership .
1 .
During early childhood , children are more interested in the approval of their parents and teachers than they are in the approval of other children ; ;
after they have been in school a few years , their interest in playmates of their own age increases , and their interest in adults decreases ; ;
the child who had once considered it a treat to accompany his parents on picnics and family gatherings now considers it a bore .
In late childhood the influence of the group on the social behavior of the child continues to increase ; ;
the group sets the styles in clothing , the kind of play engaged in , and the ideals of right and wrong behavior .
2 .
In early childhood the choice of a companion is likely to be for another child of his own age or a year or two older , who can do the things he likes to do ; ;
such factors as sex , intelligence , and status in the group do not influence his choice much at this time .
3 .
In later childhood , an interest in team games replaces individual play ; ;
loyalty to the group , a feeling of superiority over those who are not members , and unwillingness to play with members of the opposite sex become dominant traits .
4 .
During early childhood boys tease and bully , on the average , more than girls ; ;
those who feel inferior or insecure engage in these activities more than do well-adjusted children .
5 .
During late childhood boys like to tease , jostle , and talk smart to girls ; ;
girls , who are more mature than boys , frown upon the youthful antics of boys of their own age .
6 .
By the time pupils reach the sixth grade , their ethical and moral standards are fairly well developed ; ;
they exhibit a keen interest in social , political , and economic problems , but they frequently have vague and incorrect notions about the terms they use rather glibly in their routine school work .
7 .
Between the ages of two and four years , negativism or resistance to adult authority is noticeable ; ;
after the fourth year it begins to decline .
However , as we have seen , in later childhood the child begins to substitute the standards of the peer group for those of parents and teachers .
8 .
The elementary-school child grows gradually in his ability to work in groups .
The child in the primary grades can play harmoniously with one companion , but his desire to be first in everything gets him into trouble when the group gets larger ; ;
he wants to be with people , but he hasn't yet learned to cooperate .
In the middle grades , however , he begins to participate more effectively in group activities such as selecting a leader , helping to make plans and carry on group activities , and setting up rules governing the enterprise .
Why the teacher should study the individual pupil
Much progress has been made in the last two decades in developing techniques for understanding children , yet in almost any classroom today can be found children whose needs are not being met by the school program .
Some are failing to achieve as much as their ability would permit ; ;
others never seem able to enter fully into the life of the classroom .
These children have been described as those who were trying to say something to adults who did not understand .
Many school systems now employ school psychologists and child guidance specialists .
These specialists perform valuable services by helping teachers learn to identify children who need special attention , by suggesting ways of meeting the needs of individual children in the regular classroom , and by providing clinical services for severely maladjusted children .
It is the classroom teacher , however , who has daily contacts with pupils , and who is in a unique position to put sound psychological principles into practice .
Indeed , a study of the individual child is an integral part of the work of the elementary-school teacher , rather than merely an additional chore .
Teachers and administrators in many elementary schools have assumed that dividing the pupils in any grade into groups on the basis of test scores solves the problem of meeting the needs of individuals .
What they should recognize is that children who have been placed in one of these groups on a narrow academic basis still differ widely in attributes that influence success , and that they still must be treated as individuals .
Although the teacher must be concerned with maintaining standards , he must also be concerned about understanding differences in ability , background , and experience .
Factors that inhibit learning and lead to maladjustment
Studies conducted in various sections of the United States indicate that many children in elementary schools are maladjusted emotionally , and that many of them are failing to make satisfactory progress in school subjects .
One study , which involved 1,524 pupils in grades one to six , found that 12 percent of the pupils were seriously maladjusted and that 23 percent were reading a year below capacity .
It is apparent , therefore , that the teacher needs to know what factors have a vital bearing on the learning and adjustment of children .
When a child fails to meet the standards of the school in his rate of learning , insecurity , unhappiness , and other forms of maladjustment frequently follow .
These maladjustments in turn inhibit learning , and a vicious cycle is completed .
It is easy for the teacher to rationalize that the child who is not achieving in accordance with his known ability is just plain lazy , or that the child who lacks interest in school , who dislikes the teacher , or who is overaggressive is a hopeless delinquent .
The causes of retardation and maladjustment may be found in physical factors , such as defective speech or hearing , impaired vision , faulty motor coordination , a frail constitution , chronic disease , malnutrition , and glandular malfunctioning .
They may be caused by poor health habits , such as faulty eating and sleeping habits .
They may be related to mental immaturity or lack of aptitude for certain types of school work .
The curriculum may be too difficult for some and too easy for others .
Teaching methods , learning materials , and promotion policies may inhibit learning and lead to maladjustments for some children .
Unwholesome family relations , broken homes , and undesirable community influences may also be contributing factors .
This is only a minimum list of the factors that inhibit learning and contribute to maladjustment among children .
Moreover , these conditions do not influence all children in the same manner .
A vision handicap that may produce nervous tension and reading disability for one child may spur another child on to even greater achievement in reading .
An impoverished home that may discourage one child may constitute the motivation causing another to work harder for successful achievement in school .
At any rate , the teacher who recognizes common causes of retardation and maladjustment can frequently do a great deal to eliminate the causes of pupil discouragement , failure , and maladjustment .
Sources of information about children
Successful teaching involves getting enough information about each pupil to understand why he behaves as he does in certain situations and how his achievement in school is being influenced by various factors in his environment .
The classroom teacher cannot be expected to be as proficient in the use of the techniques of child study as the clinical psychologist ; ;
he cannot be expected to administer all the tests and gather all the information needed about each child in his classroom .
He can be expected , however , to examine and interpret the information already available ; ;
to refine and extend his own techniques for studying individual children ; ;
and to utilize opportunities , arising in connection with regular classroom activities , for gaining a better understanding of his pupils .
This section deals with some of the sources of information that can be tapped by the classroom teacher ; ;
Chapter 15 provides more detailed information about specific techniques used in evaluating pupil progress .
Cumulative records
Most school systems today maintain a system of cumulative records of pupils .
These records , when systematically maintained , provide much information about the children , which the teacher can use in guidance , instruction , grouping , and reporting to parents .
Each teacher has in his classroom a metal file , equipped with a lock , which is used to store cumulative record folders .
During summer vacation periods these records are stored in the office of the principal .
Only the teacher and other professional personnel are permitted to see or use these records .
Each new teacher to whom the pupil goes is expected to study the information in the cumulative record and to bring it up to date .
Some school systems provide written instructions to principals and teachers designating when certain information is to be recorded on cumulative record forms and explaining how the information is to be summarized and used .
The Summary Report On Desegregation Progress In Education In The Middle-South Region , 1959 - 1960 '' clearly shows two pieces of information .
The Summary Report , which was prepared for this Conference , indicates , first , that actual or pending school desegregation is increasing ; ;
second , that both actual and pending desegregation is , with few exceptions , the product or result of court order .
The Report together with other information suggests that desegregation in the schools is slow .
The Middle-South Region , as defined by the National Association of Intergroup Relations Officials ( NAIRO ) , consists of the states of Kentucky , Maryland , Tennessee , West Virginia , Delaware , Virginia and the District of Columbia .
The states and the Nation's Capital all have some desegregation , in fact some dating back to 1954 ; ;
but the region also embraces some of the staunchest opposition .
Desegregation has been opposed by massive resistance , interposition , pupil assignment ( with no assignments of Negro children ) , and hate bombings .
Desegregation and court order
Now let's look at the evidence that shows the increase in desegregation and such increase as a result of court order .
First Kentucky .
Elementary school desegregation came to Owen and Union Counties , which already had high school desegregation .
The action was a result of a court order , the citation for which ( and for other court action mentioned in this paper ) is taken from the Summary Report for this Conference .
In Maryland the Harford County Board of Education had prepared a desegregation plan which the Court approved but which a plaintiff had challenged ; ;
thus , county school board and Federal court joined hands here to promote school desegregation .
Additional school desegregation in Tennessee resulted from a court order opening a school serving children of military personnel .
Similarly , further desegregation may come from suits pending in three Tennessee cities , Chattanooga , Knoxville , and Memphis .
In West Virginia the number of white and Negro children attending the same school has increased almost twofold .
There are no court decisions here .
As in Maryland , a District court has approved an official plan of school desegregation in Delaware .
As a result of the State Board of Education plan , Negro children entered heretofore white elementary schools in five districts .
The Third Circuit Court of Appeals is reviewing an appeal from the plan .
In Virginia court orders led to desegregation in Charlottesville and Floyd Counties .
Desegregation in Pulaski County is pending because of court order , although date of admission is not yet determined .
Negro parents have filed application for admission of additional children to schools in Alexandria , Arlington , Fairfax , and Warren Counties .
Desegregation can also result from additional suits brought by Negro plaintiffs against school boards in Newport News , Fairfax County , Arlington County , and Norfolk .
As a school district , the District of Columbia has had desegregated schools since 1954 , shortly after the Supreme Court decision .
This recapitulation makes it clear that school desegregation continues , including the Old Dominion State , in spite of its stern resistance .
The record is clear that increase in school desegregation last year came largely as a result of a court order ; ;
that on the immediate horizon , if further large-scale ( relatively speaking ) desegregation comes , it will result from court orders on suits filed in several Middle-South states .
Knowledge that thousands of school districts are involved and observation that school desegregation has occurred in only a handful in 1959-1960 leads to a conclusion that desegregation-from-court-order is slow .
Before turning to my views as to the problems and issues before us at this Regional Conference , I wish to note a small item in the Summary Report as it refers to the District of Columbia .
That reference in the Report is `` continuation of the trend toward an all-Negro school system '' , a remark apparently occasioned by the increase of Negro school population from 74.1 per cent to 76.7 per cent .
I see no real prospects for an all-Negro school population .
West of Rock Creek Park is still monolithically white and is in fact increasingly white as a result of Georgetown's conversion-by-renovation housing program .
Nearby Foggy Bottom is ousting Negroes .
The large acreage in the Southwest Redevelopment area beckons white people -- what with high-priced town houses and elevator apartments .
The Capitol Hill rehabilitation , like Foggy Bottom , replaces Negroes with whites ( but also replaces some whites with other whites ) .
The sharpest break with tradition , the past and present of `` White Ring Around a Black Core '' , may come with the opening of nearby Montgomery County suburbs to Negro residents and , presumably , the consequent conclusion of some whites that they cannot escape the Negro by fleeing to the suburbs .
In fact , short of fleeing to Warrenton , Virginia , or Rockville , Maryland , white people may have to live with Negroes .
All of this must be taken into account before the image of an `` all-Negro '' D.C. public school system is conjured up .
Problems to solve
From the Summary Report before us at this Conference , a number of problems are apparent .
They vex us and perplex us but generally do not divide us like the issues which follow the problems .
First , how can we step up the desegregation movement ? ?
It is slow .
I believe we all want more schools where white and Negro together can and do attend .
I believe we all want no child denied admission to a school on account of his color .
In general , members of NAIRO would certainly want a child admitted to a school nearest his residence or within his residence zone .
How to achieve this objective is a problem , but we are not divided on what we want .
Second , as we increase the number of desegregated school districts and schools themselves , how can we achieve this action through school board action ? ?
It may be county school board or state school board action , as well as that of municipal school boards .
Correlatively , can we reduce the role of the district courts , so that the action is that of the people of the community or other school district and not that of the law court ? ?
This is a problem , and I believe there is little difference of opinion that wherever possible a local school board should devise and effect a plan of desegregation .
Third , how can we insure a systematic and continuing group relations education in the schools ? ?
Not simply a brief program when the schools are actually desegregated but a continuing program that also promotes integration , that encourages the children and teachers not to look at each other as white or Negro , but as human beings .
Again the problem is how to get it done and in what form to offer the group relations education ; ;
not whether it should be done .
Fourth , in the segregated school system , during the period before desegregation , how can we assure equal opportunity ? ?
In fact , in the desegregated school system which may have a good many schools with all-Negro population , how can we assure equal opportunity ? ?
This is a problem , but we are not divided over its importance or by its existence .
Fifth , in the segregated school system or in the all-Negro or all-white schools , how can we encourage better group relations or an improved attitude toward people who do not belong to the group ? ?
Can we help children adjust to `` images of other children '' when the latter are not actually present .
Now , the issues
If we have five problems whose solution we seek in relatively united fashion , then there are twice as many issues which , I judge , sharply divide us , intergroup relations practitioners and lay people .
Issue no. 1 .
Pupil assignment .
Since on the one hand school desegregation has come in Virginia hand-in-glove with pupil assignment , shall we support the plan ? ?
On the basis of pupil assignment criteria , Judge Albert Bryan has assigned Negro children to formerly white schools in Arlington and Alexandria , Virginia .
Shall we support pupil assignment ? ?
On the other hand , looking at the larger picture , is it true that pupil assignment has effectively cut off , blocked , or reduced school desegregation to a `` trickle '' ? ?
Shall we therefore oppose the plan ? ?
This question is an issue because it likely divides us into two camps -- those for or against pupil assignment .
Issue no. 2 .
Teacher assignment in order to desegregate .
In large cities like Baltimore , Louisville , and Washington , D.C. , should school desegregation be extended to all-Negro and all-white schools by assigning white and Negro teachers , respectively ? ?
On the one hand do we argue the Supreme Court decision required only that a child not be denied admission to a school on account of his race ? ?
Or should we argue that if we want adjustment of children to children of different races and that that is impossible in an all-something-or-the-other school , we must at least provide him some opportunity to adjust to people of another race within the school -- namely , to a teacher of another race .
We can argue that where residence makes pupil desegregation impossible teacher assignment can create a partially desegregated situation .
Issue no. 3 .
The plaintiff in school desegregation cases .
The earlier part of my statement deals with the court orders that resulted in desegregation .
In each instance the plaintiff was a private citizen .
In thousands of school districts , indeed , in the entire State of Mississippi , no plaintiff has come forth .
And I have established that the action of municipal , county , or state school boards or boards of education is small , infinitesimally small in comparison with the number of districts .
Is the requirement that the plaintiff be a person actually denied admission to a school a sound requirement ? ?
Should Congress authorize the Attorney General to file suit to accomplish admission of a child to a school to which he is denied entrance ? ?
Even though in civil rights legislation in 1957 and 1960 the provision for the Attorney General to act was eliminated , should we nevertheless support such a clause ? ?
This is an issue , for it divides people rather sharply .
Issue no. 4 .
Withholding of funds to schools that deny children on account of race .
This is the Powell Amendment , which in 1957 divided even a `` liberal '' group like the American Veterans Committee ( AVC ) .
Should we support a clause in Federal school construction or school assistance legislation that would deny Federal funds to a school district that denies admission to a child on account of his race ? ?
This is softer than earlier Powell amendments which would have denied funds to all segregated school districts .
There is nonetheless considerable argument against the clause , softened though it be , on the grounds that Federal aid is so necessary to the public schools .
The Federal funds limitation enlists the support of many , the opposition of quite a few .
Issue no. 5 .
Required public education .
Should a political subdivision , state or county or municipality , be required to furnish public education ? ?
For the school year , 1959-1960 , the Prince Edward County ( Virginia ) Board of Supervisors voted not to provide funds for public education , and the school board therefore could provide no public education -- for white or Negro children .
Is public education in this American democracy of such importance that no child should be denied public education ? ?
Or is this subject a matter of self-determination , a matter of states rights or county rights ? ?
If people don't want to provide public education , should they be forced to do so ? ?
Even if we marshal substantial agreement behind mandatory public education , we likely cannot expect that all the states will enact the legislation .
Should the requirement , which must therefore be Federal in nature , be legislated by the United States Congress ? ?
Or must it become law by amendment of the United States Constitution ? ?
We actually have two issues in this question -- goal and method .
Issue no. 6 .
Federal responsibility for education of the citizens .
If the above issue is settled by requiring public education for all citizens , Issue No. 6 may be moot .
If , on the other hand , it is not settled , or while it is being debated and resolved , does the Federal government have a responsibility in situations like that in Prince Edward County ? ?
Nearly half the children still receive no education .
Must or should the Federal government help ? ?
Should the government directly provide education for the children who want public education ? ?
The next question is whether board members favor their own social classes in their roles as educational policy-makers .
On the whole , it appears that they do not favor their own social classes in an explicit way .
Seldom is there an issue in which class lines can be clearly drawn .
A hypothetical issue of this sort might deal with the establishment of a free public junior college in a community where there already was a good private college which served the middle-class youth adequately but was too expensive for working-class youth .
In situations of this sort the board generally favors the expansion of free education .
Campbell studied the records of 172 school board members in twelve western cities over the period of 1931 - 40 and found `` little or no relationship between certain social and economic factors and school board competence '' , as judged by a panel of professional educators who studied the voting records on educational issues .
The few cases of clear favoritism along social-class lines are as likely as not to involve representatives of the working class on the school board who favor some such practice as higher wages for janitors rather than pay increases for teachers , and such issues are not issues of educational policy .
In general , it appears that trustees and board members attempt to represent the public interest in their administration of educational policy , and this is made easier by the fact that the dominant values of the society are middle-class values , which are generally thought to be valid for the entire society .
There have been very few cases of explicit conflict of interest between the middle class and any other class in the field of educational policy .
If there were more such cases , it would be easier to answer the question whether the policy-makers favor their own social classes .
There is currently a major controversy of public education in which group interests and values are heavily engaged .
This is the issue of segregated schools in the South .
In this case it is primarily a matter of conflict of racial groups rather than social-class groups .
Thus , the white middle and lower classes are arrayed against the Negro middle and lower classes .
This conflict may be resolved in a way which will suit white middle-class people better than it suits white lower-class people .
If this happens , there may be some class conflict in the South , with school boards and school teachers taking the middle-class position .
The educational profession
The members of the educational profession have a major voice in the determination of educational policy , their position being strongest in the universities .
They are mostly upper-middle- and lower-middle-class people , with a few in the upper class .
Do they make class-biased decisions ? ?
In a society dominated by middle-class values and working in an institution which transmits and strengthens these social values , it is clear that the educational profession must work for the values which are characteristic of the society .
There is no problem here .
The problem arises , if it does arise , when the educator has to make a choice or a decision within the area of his professional competence , but which bears some relation to the social structure .
For instance , in giving school grades or in making recommendations for the award of a college scholarship , does he consciously or unconsciously favor students of one or another social class ? ?
Again , in deciding on the content and method of his teaching , does he favor a curriculum which will make his students stronger competitors in the race for higher economic status , or does he favor a curriculum which strengthens students in other ways ? ?
The answers to questions such as these certainly depend to some extent upon the educator's own social-class position and also upon his social history , as well as upon his personality and what he conceives his mission to be as an educator .
In a set of case studies of teachers with various social-class backgrounds , Wattenberg illustrates a variety of approaches to students and to teaching which depend upon the teacher's personality as well as on his social-class background .
One upward-mobile teacher may be a hard taskmaster for lower-class pupils because she wants them to develop the attitudes and skills that will enable them to climb , while another upward-mobile teacher may be a very permissive person with lower-class pupils because he knows their disadvantages and deprivations at home , and he hopes to encourage them by friendly treatment .
One social-class factor which plays a large part in educational policy today is the fact that a great many school and college teachers are upward mobile from urban lower-class and lower-middle-class families .
Their own experience in the social system influences their work and attitudes as teachers .
While this influence is a complex matter , depending upon personality factors in the individual as well as upon his social-class experience , there probably are some general statements about social-class background and educational policy that can be made with a fair degree of truth .
Teachers who have been upward mobile probably see education as most valuable for their students if it serves students as it has served them ; ;
that is , they are likely to favor a kind of education that has vocational-advancement value .
This does not necessarily mean that such teachers will favor vocational education , as contrasted with liberal education , but they are likely to favor an approach to liberal education which has a maximal vocational-advancement value , as against a kind of `` pure '' liberal education that is not designed to help people get better jobs .
There is no doubt that higher education since World War 2 , has moved away from `` pure '' liberal education toward greater emphasis on technology and specialization .
There are several causes for this , one being rapid economic development with increasing numbers of of middle-class positions requiring engineering or scientific training .
But another cause may lie in the experience of so many new postwar faculty members with their own use of education as a means of social advancement .
Compared with the college and university faculty members of the period from 1900 to 1930 , the new postwar faculty members consist of more children of immigrants and more children of urban working-class fathers .
Their experience is quite in contrast with that of children of upper- and upper-middle-class native-born parents , who are more likely to regard education as good for its own sake and to discount the vocational emphases in the curriculum .
The `` public interest '' groups
Educational policies are formed by several groups who are officially or unofficially appointed to act in the public interest .
Legislators are one such group , and state legislators have major responsibility for educational legislation .
They generally vote so as to serve their own constituency , and if the constituency should be solidly middle class or solidly lower class , they might be expected to vote and work for middle- or for lower-class interests in education .
However , there are relatively few such political constituencies , and , as has been pointed out , there is seldom a clear-cut distinction between the educational interests of one social class and those of another .
Another public interest group is the commission of laymen or educators which is appointed to study an educational problem and to make recommendations .
Generally these commissions work earnestly to represent the interest of the entire society , as they conceive it .
Nevertheless , their conclusions and recommendations cannot please everybody , and they often represent a particular economic or political point of view .
For instance , there have been two Presidential Commissions on higher education since World War 2 .
President Truman's Commission on Higher Education tended to take a liberal , expansionist position , while President Eisenhower's Committee on Education Beyond the High School was slightly more conservative .
Both Commissions consisted of upper-middle- and upper-class people , who attempted to act in the public interest .
An example of a more definite class bias is noted in proceedings of the Commission on the Financing of Higher Education sponsored by the Association of American Universities and supported by the Rockefeller Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation .
This Commission recommended against the use of federal government funds for the assistance of private universities and against a broad program of government-supported scholarships .
This might be said to be an upper- or an upper-middle-class bias , but the Commission published as one of its staff studies a book by Byron S. Hollingshead entitled Who Should Go To College ? ?
Which recommended a federal government scholarship program .
Furthermore , the Commission set up the Council for Financial Aid to Education as a means of encouraging private business to increase its support of private higher education .
Thus , the Commission acted with a sense of social responsibility within the area of its own convictions about the problem of government support to private education .
Then there are the trustees and officers of the great educational foundations , who inevitably exert an influence on educational decisions by their support or refusal to support various educational programs , experiments , and demonstrations .
These people are practically always upper- or upper-middle-class persons , who attempt to act in what they regard as the interest of the entire society .
Finally there are the parent organizations and the laymen's organizations such as the National Association of Parents and Teachers , and the Citizens Committee on Public Schools .
These have an upper-middle-class leadership and a middle-class membership , with rare exceptions , where working-class parents are active in local P.-T.A. matters .
Like the other policy-making groups , these are middle class in their educational attitudes , and they attempt to act in the general public interest , as they see it .
In general , it appears that educational decisions and educational policies are made by people who intend to act in the interests of the society as a whole .
They are predominantly middle- and upper-class people , and undoubtedly share the values and attitudes of those classes .
They may be unaware of the existence of lower-class values and consequently fail to take them into account .
But there is very little frank and conscious espousal of the interests of any one social class by the people who have the power to make decisions in education .
They think of themselves as trustees for the entire society and try to serve the entire society .
Attempts to influence social structure through education
Educational policy in the United States has as an explicit goal the maximization of economic and cultural opportunity .
In so far as this goal is achieved , the society becomes more fluid , artificial barriers to social mobility are reduced , and people at the lower end of the social hierarchy share more fully in the material and cultural goods of society .
On the other hand , there is a counterbalancing purpose in education which is to pass on the advantages of the parents to their children .
This leads to efforts at exclusiveness through private schools and to the maintenance of social stratification in the schools .
Both of these purposes exist side by side without much overt conflict under present conditions .
Maximizing economic and cultural opportunity
The broad expansion of free education results both in raising the average economic and cultural level of the society and in promoting fluidity within the social structure .
Fifty years ago the general raising of the school-leaving age to sixteen was an example of this movement .
During the past decade the program has been carried on through expansion of free higher education in state universities , state colleges , and community colleges .
The reaffirmation of American faith in the comprehensive high school , as expressed in the Conant study , is another indication of the liveliness of the ideal of maximizing opportunity through the equalizing of educational opportunity .
The recent federal government's student-loan program is another step in the direction of making higher education more available to lower-status youth .
It is probably more effective than the expanded scholarship programs of the past decade , because the scholarship programs mainly aided the students with the best academic records ( who were usually middle-class ) , and these students tended to use the scholarship funds to go to more expensive colleges .
Meanwhile , the private colleges have increased their tuition rates so much that they have raised an economic barrier which dwarfs their scholarship funds .
The gains in educational opportunity during the past decade have taken place largely in the publicly supported institutions .
Unfortunately , however , and for reasons to be discussed in the following chapter , no rate relationships can be made completely nondiscriminatory as long as all or some of the rates must be set above marginal costs in order to yield adequate revenues .
And this fact may explain some of the disagreements among the experts as to the more rational formulas for the apportionment of total costs among different units of service .
One such disagreement , which will receive attention in this next chapter , concerns the question whether rates for different kinds of service , in order to avoid the attribute of discrimination , must be made directly proportional to marginal costs , or whether they should be based instead on differences in marginal costs .
Here , the choice is that between the horns of a dilemma .
Two major types of fully distributed cost analysis
1 .
The double-step type
Despite an ambiguity due to its failure clearly to define `` relative costs '' , the above exposition of fully distributed costing goes about as far as one can go toward expressing the basic philosophy of the practice .
For more explicit expositions , one must distinguish different types of analyses .
By all means the most important distinction is that between those total-cost apportionments which superimpose a distribution of admittedly unallocable cost residues on estimates of incremental or marginal costs , and those other apportionments which recognize no difference between true cost allocation and mere total-cost distribution .
The first , or double-step , type might also be called the `` railroad type '' because of its application to railroads ( and other transportation agencies ) by the Cost Section of the Interstate Commerce Commission .
The Cost Section distinguishes between ( directly ) variable costs and constant costs in a manner noted in the preceding chapter .
The variable costs alone are assigned to the different units of freight traffic as representing `` long-run out-of-pocket costs '' -- a term with a meaning here not distinctly different from that of the economist's `` long-run marginal costs '' .
There remains a residue of total costs , or total `` revenue requirements '' which , since it is found to behave as if it were constant over substantial variations in traffic density , is strictly unallocable on a cost-finding basis .
Nevertheless , because the Cost Section has felt impelled to make some kind of a distribution of total costs , it has apportioned this residue , which it sometimes calls `` burden '' , among the units of carload traffic on a basis ( partly ton , partly ton-mile ) which is concededly quite arbitrary from the standpoint of cost determination .
In recent years , this burden ( which includes allowances for revenue deficiencies in the passenger business and in less-than-carload freight traffic ! !
) has amounted to about one third of those total revenue requirements which the carload freight business is supposed to be called upon to meet .
Since this book is concerned only incidentally with railroad rates , it will not attempt to analyze the methods by which the staff of the Interstate Commerce Commission has estimated out-of-pocket costs and apportioned residue costs .
Suffice it to say that the usefulness of the latter apportionment is questionable .
But in any event , full credit should be given to the Cost Section for its express and overt recognition of a vital distinction too often ignored in utility-cost analyses : namely , that between a cost allocation designed to reflect the actual behavior of costs in response to changes in rates of output of different classes of utility service ; ;
and a mere cost apportionment which somehow spreads among the classes and units of service even those costs that are strictly unallocable from the standpoint of specific cost determination .
2 .
The single-step type
We turn now to a type of fully distributed cost analysis which , unlike the `` railroad type '' , draws no distinction between cost allocation and cost apportionment : the single-step type .
It might be called the `` public utility '' type because of the considerable use to which it has been put in gas and electric utility rate cases .
Here no attempt is made , first to determine out-of-pocket or marginal costs and then to superimpose on these costs `` reasonably distributed '' residues of total costs .
Instead , all of the total costs are treated as variable costs , although these costs are divided into costs that are deemed to be functions of different variables .
Moreover , whereas in Interstate Commerce Commission parlance `` variable cost '' means a cost deemed to vary in direct proportion to changes in rate of output , in the type of analysis now under review `` variable cost '' has been used more broadly , so as to cover costs which , while a function of some one variable ( such as output of energy , or number of customers ) , are not necessarily a linear function .
As already noted in an earlier paragraph , the more familiar cost analyses of utility enterprises or utility systems divide the total costs among a number of major classes of service , such as residential , commercial , industrial power , street lighting , etc. .
This `` grand division '' permits many costs to be assigned in their entirety to some one class , such as street lighting , or at least to be excluded completely from some important class or classes .
High-tension industrial power service , for example , would not be charged with any share of the maintenance costs or capital costs of the low-tension distribution lines .
But the major portions of the total costs of a utility business are common or joint to all , or nearly all , classes of customers ; ;
and these costs must somehow be apportioned among the various classes and then must somehow be reapportioned among the units of service in order to report unit costs that can serve as tentative measures of reasonable rates .
The general basis on which these common costs are assigned to differently measured units of service will be illustrated by the following highly simplified problem of an electric-utility cost analysis .
But before turning to this example , we must distinguish two subtypes of analysis , both of which belong to the single-step type rather than to the double-step type .
In the first subtype , the analyst ( following the practice of railroad analysis in this particular respect ) distributes both total operating costs and total annual capital costs ( including an allowance for `` cost of capital '' or `` fair rate of return '' ) among the different classes and units of service .
Here , an apportionment , say , of $5,000,000 of the total costs to residential service as a class would include an allowance of perhaps 6 per cent as the cost of whatever capital is deemed to have been devoted to the service of the residential consumers .
But in the second subtype , which I take to be the one more frequently applied , only the operating expenses and not the `` cost of capital '' or `` fair return '' are apportioned directly among the various classes of service .
To be sure , the capital investments in ( or , alternatively , the estimated `` fair values '' of ) the plant and equipment are apportioned among the different classes , as are also the gross revenues received from the sales of the different services .
But any resulting excess of revenues received from a given class of service over the operating costs imputed to this class is reported as a `` return '' realized on the capital investment attributed to the same service .
Thus , during any given year ( A ) if the revenues from the residential service are $7,000,000 , ( B ) if the operating expenses imputed to this class of service come to $5,000,000 , and ( C ) if the net investment in ( or value of ) the plant and equipment deemed devoted to this service amounts to $30,000,000 , the cost analyst will report that residential service , in the aggregate , has yielded a return of $2,000,000 or 6-2/3 per cent .
Other services will show different rates of return , some probably much lower and some higher .
There are obvious reasons of convenience for this practice of excluding `` cost of capital '' from the direct apportionment of annual costs among the different classes of service -- notably , the avoidance of the controversial question what rate of return should be held to constitute `` cost of capital '' or `` fair rate of return '' .
But the practice is likely to be misleading , since it may seem to support a conclusion that , as long as the revenues from any class of service cover the imputed operating expenses plus some return on capital investment , however low , the rates of charge for this service are compensatory .
Needless to say , any such inference would be quite unwarranted .
For the reason just suggested , I shall assume the use of the first subtype of fully distributed cost apportionment in the following simplified example .
That is to say , an allowance for `` cost of capital '' will be assumed to be included directly in the cost apportionment .
Three-part analysis of the costs of an electric utility business
In order to simplify the exposition of a typical fully apportioned cost analysis , let us assume the application of the analysis to an electric utility company supplying a single city with power generated by its own steam-generation plant .
Let us also assume the existence of only one class or type of service , all of which is supplied at the same voltage , phase , etc. to residential , commercial , and industrial customers .
This latter assumption will permit us to center attention on the most controversial aspect of modern public utility cost analysis -- the distinction among costs that are functions of outputs of the same service measured along different dimensions .
Since the company under review is supplying what we are here regarding as only one kind of service , we might suppose that the problem of total cost apportionment would be very simple ; ;
indeed , that it would be limited to a finding of the total annual operating and capital costs of the business , followed by a calculation of this total in terms of annual cost per kilowatt-hour of consumption .
In fact , however , the problem is not so simple .
For a statement of costs per kilowatt-hour would ignore the fact that many of these costs are not a function of kilowatt-hour output ( or consumption ) of energy .
A recognition of multiple cost functions is therefore required .
The simplest division , and the one most frequently used ( with subdivisions ) in gas and electric rate cases , is a threefold division of the total operating and capital costs into `` customer costs '' , `` energy '' or `` volumetric costs '' , and `` demand '' or `` capacity '' costs .
If this threefold division of costs were to have its counterpart in the actual rates of charge for service , as it actually does have in some rates , there would result a three-part rate for any one class of service .
For example , the monthly bill of a residential consumer might be the sum of a $1 customer charge , a $5 charge for 250 kilowatt-hours of energy at
per kilowatt-hour , and a $2 charge for a maximum demand of 2 kilowatts during the month at the rate of $1 per kilowatt -- a total bill of $8 for that month .
But our present interest lies in the measurement of costs of service , and only indirectly in rates that may or may not be designed to cover these costs .
Let us therefore consider each of the three types of cost in turn , recognizing that this simplified classification is used only for illustrative purposes ; ;
costs actually vary in much more complex ways .
1 .
The customer costs
These are those operating and capital costs found to vary with number of customers regardless , or almost regardless , of power consumption .
Included as a minimum are the costs of metering and billing along with whatever other expenses the company must incur in taking on another consumer .
These minimum costs may come to $1 per month , more or less , for residential and small commercial customers , although they are substantially higher for large industrial users , who require more costly connections and metering devices .
While costs on this order are sometimes separately charged for in residential and commercial rates , in the form of a mere `` service charge '' , they are more frequently wholly or partly covered by a minimum charge which entitles the consumer to a very small amount of gas or electricity with no further payment .
But the really controversial aspect of customer-cost imputation arises because of the cost analyst's frequent practice of including , not just those costs that can be definitely earmarked as incurred for the benefit of specific customers but also a substantial fraction of the annual maintenance and capital costs of the secondary ( low-voltage ) distribution system -- a fraction equal to the estimated annual costs of a hypothetical system of minimum capacity .
The preconditions of sociology have remained largely unexamined by the sociologist .
Like primitive numbers in mathematics , the entire axiological framework is taken to rest upon its operational worth .
But what is the operational worth of a sociology which mimetically reproduces the idea of physical models ? ?
Is it not the task of philosophy to see what intelligible meaning can be assigned to the most sacred canons in social science ? ?
It has become painfully clear that the very attempt to make the language of social research free of values by erecting mathematical and physical models , is itself a conditioned response to a world which pays a premium price for technological manipulation .
This push to confine the study of mass behaviour to the measurements of parameters involved in differential equations has led sociology perilously close to the reduction of the word `` mass '' to mean a small group in which certain relations between all pairs of individuals in such a group can be studied .
( cf. Rapoport , 1959 : :
Ch. 11 .
) Here I think the role of the philosopher becomes apparent .
The simple pragmatic success of the sociology of small groups needs to be questioned .
For if the small group notion involves the implicit claim that the phenomena of sociological investigations are of atomic or subatomic proportions , the philosopher needs to know the extent to which such entities are valid .
The mere exploration of the unconscious ground of present-day sociology offers a rich vein of philosophical and logical investigation .
( cf. Brodbeck , 1959 : :
Ch. 12 .
)
A parallel function for philosophy is the study of the relation between perceptions experientially received and conceptions logically formed .
Philosophy can supply adequate criteria of meaning in the selection of socially viable categories .
This involves a sifting of the empirical and rational elements entering into each social science statement .
Merton's functional sociology may have great practical use in the study of different cultures , yet it is perfectly clear , as Nagel ( 1957 : :
247 - 83 ) and Hempel ( 1959 : :
271 - 307 ) indicate , that the concept of function in sociology has been built up from physiological and biological models , in which the notions of teleology , i.e. , metaphysical purpose , are central .
( cf. Chapter 9 .
) Functionalism as a sociological credo is , therefore , not a direct consequence of observations , but rather an indirect consequence of philosophical inference and judgment .
The purpose of this sort of philosophical study of sociology is not to tyrannize but to clarify the principles of social science .
It is absurd to speak of philosophy as a superior enterprise to sociology , since the former is a logical , rational discipline , where sociology is essentially descriptive and empirical .
Such a position entails the negation of philosophy in its Platonic form as something soaring above and embracing the empirical and mathematical sciences .
But contrary to Whitehead , philosophy is not a synonym for Plato .
The uses of philosophy as a logical clearing house are manifest to any approach that does not descend to pure sensationalism .
However , when philosophy attempts to stand above the sciences , to dictate the conditions of empirical research , it becomes formal metaphysics ; ;
shaping the contours of life to fit the needs of legends .
The notion of philosophy as Queen Bee may fit well with authoritarian modes of political ideology , but it has been noted that the price of such an imperial notion of philosophy is the frustration and flagellation of the social sciences .
( cf. Wetter , 1952 : :
Pt. 2 , Ch. 5 ; ;
Horowitz 1957b .
)
Metaphysics is no longer a direct grappling with nature as it was in antiquity .
It has surrendered any claims of description in favor of psychological accounts of nothingness , as in Heidegger's system ( 1929 ) .
Science is mocked for wishing to know nothing of Nothing , in a last ditch effort to save the gods at the expense of men .
It is not positivism which has isolated metaphysics from reality by distinguishing between description and prescription .
It is simply revealing the state to which metaphysical thinking has fallen during this century .
Consider the traditional `` four fields '' of philosophy : logic , ethics , epistemology and esthetics .
It is a commonplace that to the degree these special preserves of past philosophic hunting grounds establish an empirical content and suitable methodological criteria , they move away from philosophy as such .
What is left to traditional systems of philosophy is , in effect , only the history of these fields prior to their becoming rigorous enough to abide by the canons of scientific method .
In this situation , philosophy has survived by separating itself from metaphysics , by showing the ultimate questions to be the meaningless questions .
The relinquishing by philosophy of pretentious claims to empirical priority gives it an ability to treat problems of meaning and truth which in the past it was unable to examine because of its missionary attitude to knowledge of more humble sorts .
In the new situation , philosophy is able to provide the social sciences with the same guidance that mathematics offers the physical sciences , a reservoir of logical relations that can be used in framing hypotheses having explanatory and predictive value .
Beyond this , philosophy may urge the social sciences forward by asking the type of question that falls outside the present scope of social inquiry , but within its potential domain of relevance .
In this connection , it might be noted that the theory of games was a mathematical discovery long before its uses in political science were exploited .
Likewise , Kant formulated the nebular hypothesis , according to which the solar system was evolved from a rotating mass of incandescent gas , nearly a half century before its scientific value was made plain by Laplace in his Systeme Du Monde .
This does not mean that philosophy resolves the problems it generates , any more so than Riemann's geometry settled the physical status of the space-time continuum .
But the forceful presentation of new issues for the sciences to work on is itself a monumental task .
To those raised on Marcel's Homo Viator and Heidegger's das Nichtige , this may seem a modest role for philosophy .
However , modesty and triviality are different qualities .
Philosophy conceived of as servant to the sciences might appear as less dramatic than philosophy which jeers as the sciences evolve .
The ceaseless effort to understand and measure the distance mankind has traversed since its primitive anthropological status offers a more durable sort of drama .
By clarifying fundamental premises in the social sciences , and defining the logical problems emergent at the borderlands of each new scientific discipline , philosophy can offer the sort of distinction that can accelerate growth in human understanding .
Philosophy can prevent the working scientist from becoming slothful and self-content by noting the assumptions and level at which a hypothesis or theory is framed .
The dissection of scientific theory , the examination of a theory from the vantage-points of language , epistemology , and ethics , is itself a distinct contribution to knowledge , no less so because of its removal from empirical research .
The realm of science , whatever the degree of precision in formulations , covers the range of prediction and explanation .
( cf. Hempel and Oppenheim , 1948 : :
135 - 75 .
) Whatever philosophy is conceived to be , its rationalist , logistic attitude to evidence should make it clear that it is something other than science .
For some forms of philosophy , this very division between the empirical and the rational becomes a sign of the metaphysical superiority of the latter .
Bergson and Leroy announce that `` the secret is the center of a philosophy '' and thereafter a hundred followers declare secrecy a higher verity .
This is simply a confession of intellectual sterility spruced up to look virtuous .
For as Merleau-Ponty indicated ( 1953 ) , it is not the secret which is important , but the removal of secrecy .
In this , philosophy and science share a common goal .
The hypostatization of the secret nonetheless guarantees that the division of analytical and synthetic philosophies shall not be overcome by even the most persuasive argument ; ;
for this division is but an abstract representation of the social struggle between mysticism and science .
The mystification of metaphysical systems does not imply the demise of philosophy , only the close of a philosophic age which demanded metaphysics to be rational and logical .
The tenacity with which present metaphysical attitudes fetishize private intuition offers the strongest evidence that the gulf between scientific and delphic ways of philosophizing is built into the present conflict over the limits and purpose of science , religion and ideology .
( cf. McGlynn : 1958 .
) Scientific systems , and this includes even the relation of mechanist to relativist physics , are built upon , refined and corrected .
Philosophic systems , by the very nature of their completeness , are overthrown by rival systems .
In addition to the incompleteness of science and the completeness of metaphysics , they differ in that science is essentially descriptive , while philosophy in its inherited forms , tends to be goal-oriented , teleological and prescriptive .
The threadbare notion that belief , unlike behaviour , is not subject to objective analysis , has placed intuitive metaphysics squarely against the sociology of knowledge , since it is precisely the job of the sociology of knowledge to treat beliefs as social facts no less viable than social behaviour .
When dealing with the actual relation of philosophy to the sociology of knowledge , or better the role of philosophy in assisting research on the social sources of ideas , one has to become necessarily selective .
Certain features we have touched upon : philosophy as a logical , deductive system from which a social science methodology can be built up ; ;
philosophic analysis of the assumptions and presumptions of the social sciences ; ;
and philosophy as a guide to possible integration of supposedly disparate sociological investigations .
The objection will be raised that the most important role of philosophy in relation to social science has been omitted , namely the status of ultimate value questions and norms operative in the social sciences .
Specifically , it will be asked whether the `` real '' questions people ask are not the `` ultimate '' questions that social science finds itself impotent in the face of .
What then is the status of such questions as : is society the ground of human existence or a means to an individual goal ? ?
Do societies develop according to cosmic patterns or are they subject only to the free choice of individuals ? ?
Does society really exist as an entity over and above the agglomeration of men ? ?
I think it must be said that , contrary to metaphysical insistence , these are questions so framed as to defy either empirical exploration or rational solutions .
As Simmel ( 1908 ) and Dilthey ( 1922 ) indicated , questions of whether the value of life is individual or social are not questions , but assertions of faith made to appear as legitimate questions .
Such pseudo-questions assume that answers of concrete significance can be supplied to statements involving undefined universals .
Social theory has no more right to expect results from meaningless questions , than physics has the right to expect a theological solution to the wave-particle controversy .
It is not that such questions are not asked .
It is rather that introducing them into social analysis reflects not so much a search for truth as for certainty .
An operational approach to sociology can never expect abstract certainty , since it is certainty which every new discovery in science either replaces or reshapes .
To raise the added objection that men require certainty on psychological grounds , answers to ultimate questions having an irrational rather than scientific basis , is in a real sense to undermine the objection itself .
For what concerns all scientific disciplines is precisely that which can be captured for the rational , i.e. , for the scientific determination of what in past ages was considered ultimate and irrational .
A philosophy which attempts to supply ultimate answers in an ultimate way reveals its acquiescence in the shortcomings of men , an impatience with partial , tentative solutions .
Men have always lived in a tentative world , and in suspension of ultimate judgments where and when necessary .
Uncertainty overcoming itself is the precondition of the quest for new and more precise information about the world .
Without such uncertainty we are left with a set of dogmas and myths .
The functional interplay of philosophy and science should , as a minimum , guarantee a meaningful option to myth-making .
A degree of indefiniteness is a salutary condition for the growth of science .
But neither was the statement empirical , for goodness was not a quality like red or squeaky that could be seen or heard .
What were they to do , then , with these awkward judgments of value ? ?
To find a place for them in their theory of knowledge would require them to revise the theory radically , and yet that theory was what they regarded as their most important discovery .
It appeared that the theory could be saved in one way only .
If it could be shown that judgments of good and bad were not judgments at all , that they asserted nothing true or false , but merely expressed emotions like `` Hurrah '' or `` Fiddlesticks '' , then these wayward judgments would cease from troubling and weary heads could be at rest .
This is the course the positivists took .
They explained value judgments by explaining them away .
Now I do not think their view will do .
But before discussing it , I should like to record one vote of thanks to them for the clarity with which they have stated their case .
It has been said of John Stuart Mill that he wrote so clearly that he could be found out .
This theory has been put so clearly and precisely that it deserves criticism of the same kind , and this I will do my best to supply .
The theory claims to show by analysis that when we say , `` That is good '' , we do not mean to assert a character of the subject of which we are thinking .
I shall argue that we do mean to do just that .
Let us work through an example , and the simpler and commoner the better .
There is perhaps no value statement on which people would more universally agree than the statement that intense pain is bad .
Let us take a set of circumstances in which I happen to be interested on the legislative side and in which I think every one of us might naturally make such a statement .
We come upon a rabbit that has been caught in one of the brutal traps in common use .
There are signs that it has struggled for days to escape and that in a frenzy of hunger , pain , and fear , it has all but eaten off its own leg .
The attempt failed : the animal is now dead .
As we think of the long and excruciating pain it must have suffered , we are very likely to say : `` It was a bad thing that the little animal should suffer so '' .
The positivist tells us that when we say this we are only expressing our present emotion .
I hold , on the contrary , that we mean to assert something of the pain itself , namely , that it was bad -- bad when and as it occurred .
Consider what follows from the positivist view .
On that view , nothing good or bad happened in the case until I came on the scene and made my remark .
For what I express in my remark is something going on in me at the time , and that of course did not exist until I did come on the scene .
The pain of the rabbit was not itself bad ; ;
nothing evil was happening when that pain was being endured ; ;
badness , in the only sense in which it is involved at all , waited for its appearance till I came and looked and felt .
Now that this is at odds with our meaning may be shown as follows .
Let us put to ourselves the hypothesis that we had not come on the scene and that the rabbit never was discovered .
Are we prepared to say that in that case nothing bad occurred in the sense in which we said it did ? ?
Clearly not .
Indeed , we should say , on the contrary , that the accident of our later discovery made no difference whatever to the badness of the animal's pain , that it would have been every whit as bad whether a chance passer-by happened later to discover the body and feel repugnance or not .
If so , then it is clear that in saying the suffering was bad we are not expressing our feelings only .
We are saying that the pain was bad when and as it occurred and before anyone took an attitude toward it .
The first argument is thus an ideal experiment in which we use the method of difference .
It removes our present expression and shows that the badness we meant would not be affected by this , whereas on positivist grounds it should be .
The second argument applies the method in the reverse way .
It ideally removes the past event , and shows that this would render false what we mean to say , whereas on positivist grounds it should not .
Let us suppose that the animal did not in fact fall into the trap and did not suffer at all , but that we mistakenly believe it did , and say as before that its suffering was an evil thing .
On the positivist theory , everything I sought to express by calling it evil in the first case is still present in the second .
In the only sense in which badness is involved at all , whatever was bad in the first case is still present in its entirety , since all that is expressed in either case is a state of feeling , and that feeling is still there .
And our question is , is such an implication consistent with what we meant ? ?
Clearly it is not .
If anyone asked us , after we made the remark that the suffering was a bad thing , whether we should think it relevant to what we said to learn that the incident had never occurred and no pain had been suffered at all , we should say that it made all the difference in the world , that what we were asserting to be bad was precisely the suffering we thought had occurred back there , that if this had not occurred , there was nothing left to be bad , and that our assertion was in that case mistaken .
The suggestion that in saying something evil had occurred we were after all making no mistake , because we had never meant anyhow to say anything about the past suffering , seems to me merely frivolous .
If we did not mean to say this , why should we be so relieved on finding that the suffering had not occurred ? ?
On the theory before us , such relief would be groundless , for in that suffering itself there was nothing bad at all , and hence in its nonoccurrence there would be nothing to be relieved about .
The positivist theory would here distort our meaning beyond recognition .
So far as I can see , there is only one way out for the positivist .
He holds that goodness and badness lie in feelings of approval or disapproval .
And there is a way in which he might hold that badness did in this case precede our own feeling of disapproval without belonging to the pain itself .
The pain in itself was neutral ; ;
but unfortunately the rabbit , on no grounds at all , took up toward this neutral object an attitude of disapproval and that made it for the first time , and in the only intelligible sense , bad .
This way of escape is theoretically possible , but since it has grave difficulties of its own and has not , so far as I know , been urged by positivists , it is perhaps best not to spend time over it .
I come now to a third argument , which again is very simple .
When we come upon the rabbit and make our remark about its suffering being a bad thing , we presumably make it with some feeling ; ;
the positivists are plainly right in saying that such remarks do usually express feeling .
But suppose that a week later we revert to the incident in thought and make our statement again .
And suppose that the circumstances have now so changed that the feeling with which we made the remark in the first place has faded .
The pathetic evidence is no longer before us ; ;
and we are now so fatigued in body and mind that feeling is , as we say , quite dead .
In these circumstances , since what was expressed by the remark when first made is , on the theory before us , simply absent , the remark now expresses nothing .
It is as empty as the word `` Hurrah '' would be when there was no enthusiasm behind it .
And this seems to me untrue .
When we repeat the remark that such suffering was a bad thing , the feeling with which we made it last week may be at or near the vanishing point , but if we were asked whether we meant to say what we did before , we should certainly answer Yes .
We should say that we made our point with feeling the first time and little or no feeling the second time , but that it was the same point we were making .
And if we can see that what we meant to say remains the same , while the feeling varies from intensity to near zero , it is not the feeling that we primarily meant to express .
I come now to a fourth consideration .
We all believe that toward acts or effects of a certain kind one attitude is fitting and another not ; ;
but on the theory before us such a belief would not make sense .
Broad and Ross have lately contended that this fitness is one of the main facts of ethics , and I suspect they are right .
But that is not exactly my point .
My point is this : whether there is such fitness or not , we all assume that there is , and if we do , we express in moral judgments more than the subjectivists say we do .
Let me illustrate .
In his novel The House Of The Dead , Dostoevsky tells of his experiences in a Siberian prison camp .
Whatever the unhappy inmates of such camps are like today , Dostoevsky's companions were about as grim a lot as can be imagined .
`` I have heard stories '' , he writes , `` of the most terrible , the most unnatural actions , of the most monstrous murders , told with the most spontaneous , childishly merry laughter '' .
Most of us would say that in this delight at the killing of others or the causing of suffering there is something very unfitting .
If we were asked why we thought so , we should say that these things involve great evil and are wrong , and that to take delight in what is evil or wrong is plainly unfitting .
Now on the subjectivist view , this answer is ruled out .
For before someone takes up an attitude toward death , suffering , or their infliction , they have no moral quality at all .
There is therefore nothing about them to which an attitude of approval or condemnation could be fitting .
They are in themselves neutral , and , so far as they get a moral quality , they get it only through being invested with it by the attitude of the onlooker .
But if that is true , why is any attitude more fitting than any other ? ?
Would applause , for example , be fitting if , apart from the applause , there were nothing good to applaud ? ?
Would condemnation be fitting if , independently of the condemnation , there were nothing bad to condemn ? ?
In such a case , any attitude would be as fitting or unfitting as any other , which means that the notion of fitness has lost all point .
Indeed , we are forced to go much farther .
If goodness and badness lie in attitudes only and hence are brought into being by them , those men who greeted death and misery with childishly merry laughter are taking the only sensible line .
If there is nothing evil in these things , if they get their moral complexion only from our feeling about them , why shouldn't they be greeted with a cheer ? ?
To greet them with repulsion would turn what before was neutral into something bad ; ;
it would needlessly bring badness into the world ; ;
and even on subjectivist assumptions that does not seem very bright .
On the other hand , to greet them with delight would convert what before was neutral into something good ; ;
it would bring goodness into the world .
The injured German veteran was a former miner , twenty-four years old , who had been wounded by shrapnel in the back of the head .
This resulted in damage to the occipital lobe and very probably to the left side of the cerebellum also .
In any event , the extraordinary result of this injury was that he became `` psychically blind '' , while at the same time , apparently , the sense of touch remained essentially intact .
Psychical blindness is a condition in which there is a total absence of visual memory-images , a condition in which , for example , one is unable to remember something just seen or to conjure up a memory-picture of the visible appearance of a well-known friend in his absence .
This circumstance in the patient's case plus the fact that his tactual capacity remained basically in sound working order constitutes its exceptional value for the problem at hand since the evidence presented by the authors is overwhelming that , when the patient closed his eyes , he had absolutely no spatial ( that is , third-dimensional ) awareness whatsoever .
The necessary inference , as the authors themselves interpret it , would seem to be this : `` ( ( 1 ) Spatial qualities are not among those grasped by the sense of touch , as such .
We do not arrive at spatial images by means of the sense of touch by itself .
( 2 ) Spatiality becomes part of the tactual sensation only by way of visual representations ; ;
that is , there is , in the true sense , only a visual space '' .
The underlying assumption , of course , is that only sight and touch enable us , in any precise and fully dependable way , to locate objects in space beyond us , the other senses being decidedly inferior , if not totally inadequate , in this regard .
This is an assumption with which few would be disposed to quarrel .
Therefore , if the sense of touch is functioning normally and there is a complete absence of spatial awareness in a psychically-blind person when the eyes are closed and an object is handled , the conclusion seems unavoidable that touch by itself cannot focus and take possession of the third-dimensionality of things and that actual sight or visual representations are necessary .
The force of the authors' analysis ( if indeed it has any force ) can be felt by the reader , I believe , only after three questions have been successfully answered .
( 1 ) What allows us to think that the patient had no third-dimensional representations when his eyes were closed ? ?
( 2 ) What evidence is there that he was psychically blind ? ?
( 3 ) How can we be sure that his sense of touch was not profoundly disturbed by his head injury ? ?
We shall consider these in the inverse order of their presentation .
Obviously , a satisfactory answer to the third question is imperative , if the argument is to get under way at all , for if there is any possibility of doubt whether the patient's tactual sensitivity had been impaired by the occipital lesion , any findings whatsoever in regard to the first question become completely ambiguous and fail altogether , of course , as evidence to establish the desired conclusion .
The answer the authors give to it , therefore , is of supreme importance .
It is as follows : `` The usual sensitivity tests showed that the specific qualities of skin-perceptiveness ( pressure , pain , temperature ) , as well as the kinesthetic sensations ( muscular feelings , feelings in the tendons and joints ) , were , as such , essentially intact , although they seemed , in comparison with normal reactions , to be somewhat diminished over the entire body .
The supposed tactual sense of spatial location and orientation in the patient and his ability to specify the location of a member , as well as the direction and scope of a movement , passively executed ( with one of his members ) , proved to have been , on the contrary , very considerably affected '' .
The authors insist , however , that these abnormalities in the sense of touch were due absolutely to no organic disorders in that sense faculty but rather to the injuries which the patient had sustained to the sense of sight .
First of all , what is their evidence that the tactual apparatus was fundamentally undamaged ? ?
( 1 ) When an object was placed in the patient's hand , he had no difficulty determining whether it was warm or cold , sharp or blunt , rough or smooth , flexible , soft , or hard ; ;
and he could tell , simply by the feel of it , whether it was made of wood , iron , cloth , rubber , and so on .
And he could recognize , by touch alone , articles which he had handled immediately before , even though they were altogether unfamiliar to him and could not be identified by him ; ;
that is , he was unaware what kind of objects they were or what their use was .
( 2 ) The patient attained an astonishing efficiency in a new trade .
Because of his brain injury and the extreme damage suffered to his sight , the patient had to train himself for a new line of work , that of a portfolio-maker , an occupation requiring a great deal of precision in the making of measurements and a fairly well-developed sense of form and contour .
It seems clear , when one takes into consideration the exceedingly defective eyesight of the patient ( we shall describe it in detail in connection with our second question , the one concerning the psychical blindness of the patient ) , that he had to rely on his sense of touch much more than the usual portfolio-maker and that consequently that faculty was most probably more sensitive to shape and size than that of a person with normal vision .
And so the authors conclude : `` The conduct of the patient in his every-day life and in his work , even more than the foregoing facts ( mentioned above under 1 ) , leave positively no room for doubt that the sense of touch , in the ordinary sense of the word , was unaffected ; ;
or , to put the same thing in physiological terms , that the performance-capacity of the tactual apparatus , from the periphery up to the tactual centers in the brain , -- that is , from one end to the other -- was unimpaired '' .
If the argument is accepted as essentially sound up to this point , it remains for us to consider whether the patient's difficulties in orienting himself spatially and in locating objects in space with the sense of touch can be explained by his defective visual condition .
But before we can do this , we must first find answers to our original questions 1 and 2 ; ;
then we shall perhaps be in a position to provide something like a complete answer to the question at hand .
In what ways , then , did the patient's psychical blindness manifest itself ? ?
He could not see objects as unified , self-contained , and organized figures , as a person does with normal vision .
The meaning of this , as we shall see , is that he had no fund of visual memory-images of objects as objects ; ;
and , therefore , he could not recognize even long-familiar things upon seeing them again .
Instead , he constantly became lost in parts and components of them , confused some of their details with those of neighboring objects , and so on , unless he allowed time to `` trace '' the object in question through minute movements of the head and hands and in this way to discover its contours .
According to his own testimony , he never actually saw things as shaped but only as generally amorphous `` blots '' of color of a more or less indefinite size ; ;
at their edges they slipped pretty much out of focus altogether .
But by the tracing procedure , he could , in a strange obviously kinesthetic manner , find the unseen form ; ;
could piece , as it were , the jumbled mass together into an organized whole and then recognize it as a man or a triangle or whatever it turned out to be .
If , however , the figure to be discerned were complicated , composed of several interlocking subfigures , and so on , even the tracing process failed him , and he could not focus even relatively simple shapes among its parts .
This meant , concretely , that the patient could not read at all without making writing-like movements of the head or body , became easily confused by `` hasher marks '' inserted between hand-written words and thus confused the mark for one of the letters , and could recognize a simple straight line or a curved one only by tracing it .
The patient himself denied that he had any visual imagery at all ; ;
and there was ample evidence of the following sort to corroborate him .
After a conversation with another man , he was able to recount practically everything that had been said but could not describe at all what the other man looked like .
Nor could he call up memory-pictures of close friends or relatives .
In short , both his own declarations and his figural blindness , when he looked at objects , seem to present undeniable evidence that he had simply no visual memory at all .
He was oblivious of the form of the object actually being viewed , precisely because he could not assign it to a visual shape , already learned and held in visual memory , as persons of normal vision do .
He could not recognize it ; ;
he was absolutely unfamiliar with it because he had no visual memory at all .
Therefore , his only recourse was to learn the shape all over again for each new visual experience of the same individual object or type of object ; ;
and this he could do only by going over its mass with the tracing procedure .
Then he might finally recognize it , apparently by combining the visual blot , actually being seen , with tactual feelings in the head or body accompanying the tracing movements .
This would mean , it can readily be seen , that , again , for each new visual experience , the tracing motions would have to be repeated because of the absence of visual imagery .
As one would surmise , the procedure , however , could be repeated with the same object or with the same type of object often enough , so that the corresponding visual blots and the merest beginning of the tracing movement would provide clues as to the actual shape , which the patient then immediately could determine by a kind of inference .
Men , trees , automobiles , houses , and so on -- objects continually confronted in everyday life -- had each its characteristic blot-appearance and became easily recognizable , at the very beginning of tracing , by an inference as to what each was .
Dice , for example , he inferred from black dots on a white surface .
He evidently could not actually see the corners of these objects , but their size and the dots gave them away .
And the authors give numerous instances of calculated guessing on the patient's part to show how large a role it played in his process of readapting himself and how proficient he became at it .
Often he seems even to have been able to guess correctly , without the tracing motions , solely on the basis of qualitative differences among the blot-like things which appeared in his visual experience .
Perhaps the very important question -- What is , then , exactly the role of kinesthetic sensations in the patient's ability to recognize forms and shapes by means of the tracing movements when he is actually looking at things ? ?
-- has now been raised in the reader's mind and in the following form .
If the patient can perceive figure kinesthetically when he cannot perceive it visually , then , it would seem , the sense of touch has immediate contact with the spatial aspects of things in independence of visual representations , at least in regard to two dimensions , and , as we shall see , even this much spatial awareness on the part of unaided touch is denied by the authors .
How , then , do the kinesthetic sensations function in all this ? ?
The authors set about answering this fundamental question through a detailed investigation of the patient's ability , tactually , ( 1 ) to perceive figure and ( 2 ) to locate objects in space , with his eyes closed ( or turned away from the object concerned ) .
Quite naturally , they make the investigation , first , by prohibiting the patient from making any movements at all and then , later , by repeating it and allowing the patient to move in any way he wanted to .
When the patient was not allowed to move his body in any way at all , the following striking results occurred .
Whenever artists , indeed , turned to actual representations or molded three-dimensional figures , which were rare down to 800 B.C. , they tended to reflect reality ( see Plate 6a , 9b ) ; ;
a schematic , abstract treatment of men and animals , by intent , rose only in the late eighth century .
To speak of this underlying view of the world is to embark upon matters of subjective judgment .
At the least , however , one may conclude that Geometric potters sensed a logical order ; ;
their principles of composition stand very close to those which appear in the Homeric epics and the hexameter line .
Their world , again , was a still simple , traditional age which was only slowly beginning to appreciate the complexity of life .
And perhaps an observer of the vases will not go too far in deducing that the outlook of their makers and users was basically stable and secure .
The storms of the past had died away , and the great upheaval which was to mark the following century had not yet begun to disturb men's minds .
Throughout the work of the later ninth century a calm , severe serenity displays itself .
In the vases this spirit may perhaps at times bore or repel one in its internal self-satisfaction , but the best of the Geometric pins have rightly been considered among the most beautiful ever made in the Greek world .
The ninth century was in its artistic work `` the spiritually freest and most self-sufficient between past and future '' , and the loving skill spent by its artists upon their products is a testimonial to their sense that what they were doing was important and was appreciated .
The Aegean in 800 B.C.
Geometric pottery has not yet received the thorough , detailed study which it deserves , partly because the task is a mammoth one and partly because some of its local manifestations , as at Argos , are only now coming to light .
From even a cursory inspection of its many aspects , however , the historian can deduce several fundamental conclusions about the progress of the Aegean world down to 800 B.C.
.
The general intellectual outlook which had appeared in the eleventh century was now consolidated to a significant degree .
Much which was in embryo in 1000 had become reasonably well developed by 800 .
In this process the Minoan-Mycenaean inheritance had been transmuted or finally rejected ; ;
the Aegean world which had existed before 1000 differed from that which rises more clearly in our vision after 800 .
Those modern scholars who urge that we must keep in mind the fundamental continuity of Aegean development from earliest times -- granted occasional irruptions of peoples and ideas from outside -- are correct ; ;
but all too many observers have been misled by this fact into minimizing the degree of change which took place in the early first millennium .
The focus of novelty in this world now lay in the south-eastern districts of the Greek mainland , and by 800 virtually the entire Aegean , always excepting its northern shores , had accepted the Geometric style of pottery .
While Protogeometric vases usually turn up , especially outside Greece proper , together with as many or more examples of local stamp , these `` non-Greek '' patterns had mostly vanished by the later ninth century .
In their place came local variations within the common style -- tentative , as it were , in Protogeometric products but truly distinct and sharply defined as the Geometric spirit developed .
Attica , though important , was not the only teacher of this age .
One can take a vase of about 800 B.C. and , without any knowledge of its place of origin , venture to assign it to a specific area ; ;
imitation and borrowing of motifs now become ascertainable .
The potters of the Aegean islands thus stood apart from those of the mainland , and in Greece itself Argive , Corinthian , Attic , Boeotian , and other Geometric sequences have each their own hallmarks .
These local variations were to become ever sharper in the next century and a half .
The same conclusions can be drawn from the other physical evidence of the Dark ages , from linguistic distribution , and from the survivals of early social , political , and religious patterns into later ages .
By 800 B.C. the Aegean was an area of common tongue and of common culture .
On these pillars rested that solid basis for life and thought which was soon to be manifested in the remarkably unlimited ken of the Iliad .
Everywhere within the common pattern , however , one finds local diversity ; ;
Greek history and culture were enduringly fertilized , and plagued , by the interplay of these conjoined yet opposed factors .
Further we cannot go , for the Dark ages deserve their name .
Many aspects of civilization were not yet sufficiently crystallized to find expression , nor could the simple economic and social foundations of this world support a lofty structure .
The epic poems , the consolidation of the Greek pantheon , the rise of firm political units , the self-awareness which could permit painted and sculptured representations of men -- all these had to await the progress of following decades .
What we have seen in this chapter , we have seen only dimly , and yet the results , however general , are worth the search .
These are the centuries in which the inhabitants of the Aegean world settled firmly into their minds and into their institutions the foundations of the Hellenic outlook , independent of outside forces .
To interpret , indeed , the era from 1000 to 800 as a period mainly of consolidation may be a necessary but unfortunate defect born of our lack of detailed information ; ;
if we could see more deeply , we probably would find many side issues and wrong turnings which came to an end within the period .
The historian can only point out those lines which were major enough to find reflection in our limited evidence , and must hope that future excavations will enrich our understanding .
Throughout the Dark ages , it is clear , the Greek world had been developing slowly but consistently .
The pace could now be accelerated , for the inhabitants of the Aegean stood on firm ground .
Chapter 5 the early eighth century
the landscape of Greek history broadens widely , and rather abruptly , in the eighth century B.C. , the age of Homer's `` rosy-fingered Dawn '' .
The first slanting rays of the new day cannot yet dispel all the dark shadows which lie across the Aegean world ; ;
but our evidence grows considerably in variety and shows more unmistakably some of the lines of change .
For this period , as for earlier centuries , pottery remains the most secure source ; ;
the ceramic material of the age is more abundant , more diversified , and more indicative of the hopes and fears of its makers , who begin to show scenes of human life and death .
Figurines and simple chapels presage the emergence of sculpture and architecture in Greece ; ;
objects in gold , ivory , and bronze grow more numerous .
Since writing was practiced in the Aegean before the end of the century , we may hope that the details of tradition will now be occasionally useful .
Though it is not easy to apply the evidence of the Iliad to any specific era , this marvelous product of the epic tradition had certainly taken definitive shape by 750 .
The Dipylon Geometric pottery of Athens and the Iliad are amazing manifestations of the inherent potentialities of Greek civilization ; ;
but both were among the last products of a phase which was ending .
Greek civilization was swirling toward its great revolution , in which the developed qualities of the Hellenic outlook were suddenly to break forth .
The revolution was well under way before 700 B.C. , and premonitory signs go back virtually across the century .
The era , however , is Janus-faced .
While many tokens point forward , the main achievements stand as a culmination of the simple patterns of the Dark ages .
The dominant pottery of the century was Geometric ; ;
political organization revolved about the basileis ; ;
trade was just beginning to expand ; ;
the gods who protected the Greek countryside were only now putting on their sharply anthropomorphic dress .
The modern student , who knows what was to come next , is likely to place first the factors of change which are visible in the eighth century .
Not all men of the period would have accepted this emphasis .
Many potters clung to the past the more determinedly as they were confronted with radically new ideas ; ;
the poet of the Iliad deliberately archaized .
Although it is not possible to sunder old and new in this era , I shall consider in the present chapter primarily the first decades of the eighth century and shall interpret them as an apogee of the first stage of Greek civilization .
On this principle of division I must postpone the evolution of sculpture , architecture , society , and politics ; ;
for the developments in these areas make sense only if they are connected to the age of revolution itself .
The growing contacts between Aegean and Orient are also a phase which should be linked primarily to the remarkable broadening of Hellenic culture after 750 .
We shall not be able entirely to pass over these connections to the East as we consider Ripe Geometric pottery , the epic and the myth , and the religious evolution of early Greece ; ;
the important point , however , is that these magnificent achievements , unlike those of later decades , were only incidentally influenced by Oriental models .
The antecedents of Dipylon vases and of the Iliad lie in the Aegean past .
Dipylon pottery
the pottery of the first half of the eighth century is commonly called Ripe Geometric .
The severe yet harmonious vases of the previous fifty years , the Strong Geometric style of the late ninth century , display as firm a mastery of the principles underlying Geometric pottery ; ;
but artists now were ready to refine and elaborate their inheritance .
The vases which resulted had different shapes , far more complex decoration , and a larger sense of style .
Beyond the aesthetic and technical aspects of this expansion we must consider the change in pottery style on broader lines .
In earlier centuries men had had enough to do in rebuilding a fundamental sense of order after chaos .
They had had to work on very simple foundations and had not dared to give rein to impulses .
The potters , in particular , had virtually eschewed freehand drawing , elaborate motifs , and the curving lines of nature , while yet expressing a belief that there was order in the universe .
In their vases were embodied the basic aesthetic and logical characteristics of Greek civilization , at first hesitantly in Protogeometric work , and then more confidently in the initial stages of the Geometric style .
By 800 social and cultural security had been achieved , at least on a simple plane ; ;
it was time to take bigger steps , to venture on experiments .
Ripe Geometric potters continued to employ the old syntax of ornaments and shapes and made use of the well-defined though limited range of motifs which they had inherited .
In these respects the vases of the early eighth century represent a culmination of earlier lines of progress .
To the ancestral lore , however , new materials were added .
Painters left less and less of a vase in a plain dark color ; ;
instead they divided the surface into many bands or covered it by all-over patterns into which freehand drawing began to creep .
Wavy lines , feather-like patterns , rosettes of indefinitely floral nature , birds either singly or in stylized rows , animals in solemn frieze bands ( see Plates 11 - 12 ) -- all these turned up in the more developed fabrics as preliminary signs that the potters were broadening their gaze .
The rows of animals and birds , in particular , suggest awareness of Oriental animal friezes , transmitted perhaps via Syrian silver bowls and textiles , but the specific forms of these rows on local vases and metal products are nonetheless Greek .
Though the spread of this type of decoration in the Aegean has not yet been precisely determined , it seems to appear first in the Cyclades , which were among the leading exporters of pottery throughout the century .
As the material at the command of the potters grew and the volume of their production increased , the local variations within a common style became more evident .
Plate 12 illustrates four examples , which are Ripe or Late Geometric work of common spirit but of different schools .
Cook had discovered a beef in his possession a few days earlier and , when he could not show the hide , arrested him .
Thinking the evidence insufficient to get a conviction , he later released him .
Even while suffering the trip to his home , Cook swore to Moore and Lane that he would kill the Indian .
Three weeks later , following his recovery , armed with a writ issued by the Catskill justice on affidavits prepared by the district attorney , Cook and Russell rode to arrest Martinez .
Arriving at daybreak , they found Julio in his corral and demanded that he surrender .
Instead , he whirled and ran to his house for a gun , forcing them to kill him , Cook reported .
Both Cook's and Russell's lives were threatened by the Mexicans following the killing , but the company officers felt that in the end , it would serve to quiet them despite their immediate emotion .
General manager Pels even suggested that it might be wise to keep the Mexicans in suspense rather than accept their offers to sell out and move away , and try to have a few punished .
On February 17 , Russell and Cook were sent to the Pena Flor community on the Vermejo to see about renting out ranches the company had purchased .
While talking with Julian M. Beall , Francisco Archuleta and Juan Marcus appeared , both heavily armed , and after watching the house for a while , rode away .
It was nearly sundown before they finished the business with Beall and began riding down the stream .
They had traveled only a short distance when they spotted five Mexicans riding along a horse-trail across the stream just ahead of them .
Suspecting an ambush , the two deputies decided to ride up a side canyon taking a short cut into Catskill .
After spending two nights ( Wednesday and Thursday ) in Catskill , the deputies again headed for the Vermejo to finish their business .
They stayed with a rancher Friday night and by eleven o'clock Saturday morning passed the old Garnett Lee ranch .
Half a mile below at the mouth of Salyer's Canyon was an old ranch that the company had purchased from A. J. Armstrong , occupied by a Mexican , his wife , and an old trapper .
There were three houses in Salyer's Canyon just at the foot of a low bluff , the road winding along the top , entering above , and then passing down in front of the houses , thence to the Vermejo .
To the west of this road was another low bluff , forty or fifty feet high , covered with scrub oak and other brush .
As they were riding along this winding road on the bench of land between the two bluffs , a volley of rifle fire suddenly crashed around the two officers .
Not a bullet touched Cook who was nearer the ambush , but one hit Russell in the leg and another broke his arm , passing on through his body .
With the first reports , Russell's horse wheeled to the right and ran towards the buildings while Cook , followed by a hail of bullets , raced towards the arroyo of Salyer's Canyon immediately in front of him , just reaching it as his horse fell .
Grabbing his Winchester from its sheath , Cook prepared to fight from behind the arroyo bank .
Bullets were so thick , throwing sand in his face , that he found it difficult to return the fire .
Noticing Russell's horse in front of the long log building , he assumed his friend had slipped inside and would be able to put up a good fight , so he began working his way down the ditch to join him .
At a very shallow place , two Mexicans rushed into the open for a shot .
Dropping to one knee , Cook felled one , and the other struggled off with his comrade , sending no further fire in his direction .
Just before leaving the arroyo where he was partially concealed , he did hear shots down at the house .
Russell had reached the house as Cook surmised , dismounted , but just as the old trapper opened the door to receive him , he fell into the trapper's arms -- dead .
A bullet fired by one of the Mexicans hiding in a little chicken house had passed through his head , tearing a hole two-inches square on the outgoing side .
Finding him dead , Cook caught Russell's horse and rode to the cattle foreman's house to report the incident and request bloodhounds to trail the assassins .
Before daylight Sunday morning , a posse of twenty-three men under the leadership of Deputy Sheriff Frank MacPherson of Catskill followed the trail to the house of Francisco Chaves , where 100 to 150 Mexicans had gathered .
MacPherson boldly approached the fortified adobe house and demanded entrance .
The men inside informed him that they had some wounded men among them but he would not be allowed to see them even though he offered medical aid .
The officer demanded the names of the injured men ; ;
the Mexicans not only refused to give them , but told the possemen if they wanted a fight they could have it .
Since the strength of the Mexicans had been underrated , too small a posse had been collected , and since the deputy had not been provided with search warrants , MacPherson and his men decided it was much wiser to withdraw .
The posse's retreat encouraged the Mexicans to be overbearing and impudent .
During the following week , six tons of hay belonging to one rancher were burned ; ;
some buildings , farm tools , two horses , plows , and hay owned by Bonito Lavato , a friendly interpreter for the company , and Pedro Chavez' hay were stolen or destroyed ; ;
and a store was broken into and robbed .
District Attorney M. W. Mills warned that he would vigorously prosecute persons caught committing these crimes or carrying arms -- he just didn't catch anyone .
Increasing threats on his life finally convinced Cook that he should leave New Mexico .
His friends advised that it would be only a question of time until either the Mexicans killed him by ambuscade or he would be compelled to kill them in self-defense , perpetuating the troubles .
By early summer , he wrote from Laramie that he was suffering from the wound inflicted in the ambush and was in a bad way financially , so Pels sent him a draft for $100 , warning that it was still not wise for him to return .
Pels also sent a check for $100 to Russell's widow and had a white marble monument erected on his grave .
Cattle stealing and killing , again serious during the spring of 1891 , placed the land grant company officers in a perplexing position .
They were reluctant to appoint sheriffs to protect the property , thus running the risk of creating disturbances such as that on the Vermejo , and yet the cowboys protested that they got no salary for arresting cattle thieves and running the risk of being shot .
And the law virtually ignored the situation .
The judge became ill just as the Colfax District Court convened , no substitute was brought in , no criminal cases heard , only 5 out of 122 cases docketed were tried , and court adjourned sine die after sitting a few days instead of the usual three weeks .
Pels complained : `` Litigants and witnesses were put to the expense and inconvenience of going long distances to transact business ; ;
public money spent ; ;
justice delayed ; ;
nothing accomplished , and the whole distribution of justice in this county seems to be an absolute farce '' .
Word reached the company that the man behind these depredations was Manuel Gonzales , a man with many followers , including a number who were kept in line through fear of him .
Although wanted by the sheriff for killing an old man named Asher Jones , the warrant for his arrest had never been served .
On May 19 , a deputy sheriff's posse of eight men left Maxwell City and rode thirty-five miles up the Vermejo where they were joined by Juan Jose Martinez .
By 3:00 A.M. they reached his house and found it vacant .
When they were refused entrance to his brother's house nearby , they smashed down the door , broke the window , and threw lighted clothes wet with kerosene into the room .
Still there was no Gonzales and the family would say nothing .
About 300 yards up the creek was a cluster of Mexican houses containing six rooms in the form of a square .
While prowling around these buildings , two of the posse recognized the voice of Gonzales speaking to the people inside .
He was promised that no harm would befall him if he would come out , but he cursed and replied that he would shoot any man coming near the door .
The posse then asked that he send out the women and children as the building would be fired or torn down over his head if necessary to take him dead or alive .
Again he refused .
In deadly earnest , the besiegers methodically stripped away portions of the roof and tossed lighted rags inside , only to have most stamped out by the women as soon as they hit the floor .
When it became obvious that he could stay inside no longer , taking a thousand to one chance Gonzales rushed outside , square against the muzzle of a Winchester .
Shot near the heart , he turned to one side and plunged for a door to another room several feet away , three bullets following him .
As he pushed open the door he fell on his face , one of his comrades pulling him inside .
Not realizing the seriousness of the wound , the besiegers warned that if he did not surrender the house would be burned down around him .
Receiving no answer , they set the fire .
When the house was about half consumed , his comrade ran to the door and threw up his hands , declaring repeatedly that he did not know the whereabouts of Manuel .
Finding it true that he was not inside , the deputies returned to the first house and tore holes through the side and the roof until they could see a body on the bed covered by a blanket .
Several slugs fired into the bed jerked aside the blanket to reveal an apparently lifeless hand .
Shot six or eight times the body was draped with Russell's pistol , belt , and cartridges .
There was no extra horse so it was left to his comrades who , though numbering in the fifties , had stood around on the hillside nearby without firing a shot during the entire attack .
Early the next morning , a Mexican telephoned Pels that Celso Chavez , one of the posse members , was surrounded by ten Mexicans at his father's home on the upper Vermejo .
The sheriff and District Attorney Mills hastily swore out a number of warrants against men who had been riding about armed , according to signed statements by Chavez and Dr. I. P. George , and ordered Deputy Barney Clark of Raton to rescue the posseman .
Traveling all night , Clark and twelve men arrived at about seven o'clock May 22 .
Occasionally they heard gun-shot signals and a number of horsemen were sighted on the hills , disappearing at the posse's approach .
A Mexican justice of the peace had issue a writ against Chavez for taking part in the `` murder '' of Manuel Gonzales so he and his father were anxious to be taken out of danger .
The men helped them gather their belongings and escorted them to Raton along with three other families desiring to leave .
The ten or more dangerous parties singled out for prosecution were still at large , and Pels realized that if these men entrenched themselves in their adobe houses , defending themselves through loopholes , it would be most difficult to capture them .
Thus he wired J. P. Lower and Sons of Denver : `` Have you any percussion hand grenades for throwing in a house or across a well loaded with balls or shrapnel shot ? ?
If not , how long to order and what is the price '' ? ?
He wisely decided that it would be foolish to create a disturbance during the coming roundup , particularly since the Mexicans were on their guard .
His problem then became one of restraining the American fighters who wanted to clean out the Vermejo by force immediately .
The plant was located west of the Battenkill and south of the location of the former electric light plant .
The Manchester Depot Sewer Company issued 214 shares of stock at $10 each for construction of a sewer in that locality , and assessments were made for its maintenance .
It has given considerable trouble at times and empties right into the Battenkill .
Fire District No. 1 discussed its possible purchase in 1945 , but considered it an unwise investment .
The sewer on Bonnet Street was constructed when there were only a few houses on the street .
As new homes were built they were connected so that all residences south of School Street are served by it .
B. J. Connell is the present treasurer and manager .
The 1946 town meeting voted to have the Selectmen appoint a committee to investigate and report on the feasibility of some system of sewage disposal and a disposal plant to serve Manchester Center , Depot , and Way's Lane .
The committee submitted a report signed by Louis Martin and Leon Wiley with a map published in the 1946 town report .
The layout of the sewer lines was designed by Henry W. Taylor , who was the engineer for the Manchester Village disposal plant .
No figures were submitted with the report and no action was taken on it by the town .
The 1958 town meeting directed town authorities to seek federal and state funds with which to conduct a preliminary survey of a proposed sewage plant with its attendant facilities .
The final step was a vote for a $230,000 bond issue for the construction of a sewage system by the 1959 town meeting , later confirmed by a two-thirds vote at a special town meeting June 21 , 1960 .
There the matter stands with the prospect that soon Manchester may be removed from the roster of towns contributing raw sewage to its main streams .
Telephone and telegraph
Manchester's unusual interest in telegraphy has often been attributed to the fact that the Rev. J. D. Wickham , headmaster of Burr and Burton Seminary , was a personal friend and correspondent of the inventor , Samuel F. B. Morse .
At any rate , Manchester did not lag far behind the first commercial system which was set up in 1844 between Baltimore and Washington .
In 1846 Matthew B. Goodwin , jeweler and watchmaker , became the town's first telegrapher in a dwelling he built for himself and his business `` two doors north of the Equinox House '' or `` one door north of the Bank , Manchester , Vermont '' .
Goodwin was telegrapher for the `` American Telegraph Company '' and the `` Troy and Canada Junction Telegraph Company '' .
Shares of capital stock at $15 each in the latter company were payable at the Bank of Manchester or at various other Vermont banks .
A message of less than fifteen words to Bennington cost twenty-five cents .
By 1871 L. C. Orvis , manager of the `` Western Union Telegraph Company '' , expressed willingness to send emergency telegrams on Sundays from his Village drugstore .
Orvis even needed to hire an assistant , Clark J. Wait .
The Manchester Journal commented editorially on the surprising amount of local telegraphic business .
In the fall of 1878 , the `` Popular Telegraph Line '' was established between Manchester and Factory Point by the owners , Paul W. Orvis , Henry Gray , J. N. Hard , and Clark J. Wait .
The line soon lived up to its name , as local messages of moderate length could be sent for a dime and the company was quickly able to declare very liberal dividends on its capital stock .
In 1879 the same Clark Wait , with H. H. Holley of South Dorset , formed the `` American Telegraph Line '' , extending from Manchester Depot via Factory Point and South Dorset to Dorset .
Besides being most convenient , the line `` soon proved a good investment for the owners '' .
Telegraphers at the Depot at this time were Aaron C. Burr and Mark Manley of `` Burr and Manley '' , dealers in lumber and dry goods .
Early equipment was very flimsy ; ;
the smallest gusts of wind toppled poles , making communications impossible .
But companies continued to spring up .
By 1883 the `` Battenkill Telegraph Company '' was in existence and Alvin Pettibone was its president .
Operating in 1887 was the `` Valley Telegraph Line '' , officers of which were E. C. Orvis , president ; ;
H. K. Fowler , vice-president and secretary ; ;
J. N. Hard , treasurer ; ;
F. H. Walker , superintendent ; ;
H. S. Walker , assistant superintendent .
Two companies now had headquarters with Clark J. Wait , who by then had his own drugstore at Factory Point -- the `` Northern Union Telegraph Company '' and the `` Western Union '' .
Operators were Arthur Koop and Norman Taylor .
Still existing on a `` Northern Union '' telegraph form is a typical peremptory message from Peru grocer J. J. Hapgood to Burton and Graves' store in Manchester -- `` Get and send by stage four pounds best Porterhouse or serloin stake , for Mrs. Hapgood send six sweet oranges '' .
About 1888 J. E. McNaughton of Barnumville and E. G. Bacon became proprietors of the `` Green Mountain Telegraph Company '' , connecting all offices on the Western Union line and extending over the mountain from Barnumville to Peru , Londonderry , South Londonderry , Lowell Lake , Windham , North Windham , Grafton , Cambridgeport , Saxton's River , and Bellows Falls .
From 1896 until 1910 John H. Whipple was manager of Western Union at the Center in the drugstore he purchased from Clark Wait .
The Village office of Western Union with George Towsley as manager and telegrapher continued in Hard's drugstore until 1905 .
During the summers , Towsley often needed the assistance of a company operator .
These were the years when people flocked to Manchester not only to play golf , which had come into vogue , but also to witness the Ekwanok Country Club tournaments .
New Yorkers were kept informed of scores by reporters who telegraphed fifteen to twenty thousand words daily to the metropolitan newspapers .
This boosted local telegraph business and Manchester basked in all the free advertising .
In 1914 when the town was chosen for the U. S. Amateur Golf tournament , a representative hurried here from the Boston manager's office .
In his wake came the District Traffic Supervisor and the cream of the telegraphic profession , ten of Boston's best , chosen for their long experience and thorough knowledge of golf .
During that tournament alone , some 250,000 words winged their way out of Manchester .
The old Morse system was replaced locally by the Simplex modern automatic method in 1929 , when Ellamae Heckman ( Wilcox ) was manager of the Western Union office .
During summers , business was so brisk that Mrs. Wilcox had two assistants and a messenger .
She was succeeded by Clarence Goyette .
Since that time the telegraph office has shifted in location from the railroad station at the Depot and shops at the Center back to the town clerk's office and drugstore at the Village .
After being located for some years in the Village at the Equinox Pharmacy under the supervision of Mrs. Harry Mercier , it is presently located in the Hill and Dale Shop , Manchester Center .
The first known telephone line in Manchester was established in July 1883 between Burr and Manley's store at Manchester Depot and the Kent and Root Marble Company in South Dorset .
This was extended the following year to include the railroad station agent's office and Thayer's Hotel at Factory Point .
In November 1887 a line connecting several dwelling houses in Dorset was extended to Manchester Depot .
Telephone wires from Louis Dufresne's house in East Manchester to the Dufresne lumber job near Bourn Pond were up about 1895 .
Eber L. Taylor of Manchester Depot recorded the setting of phone poles in East Dorset and Barnumville in his diary for 1906 .
These must have been for local calls strictly , as in May 1900 the `` only long distance telephone '' in town was transferred from C. B. Carleton's to Young's shoe store .
A small single switchboard was installed in the Village over Woodcock's hardware store ( later E. H. Hemenway's ) .
George Woodcock was manager and troubleshooter ; ;
Elizabeth Way was the first operator ; ;
and a night operator was also employed .
Anyone fortunate enough to have one of those early phones advertised the fact along with the telephone number in the Manchester Journal .
In 1918 the New England Telephone Company began erecting a building to house its operations on the corner of U. S. Rte. 7 and what is now Memorial Avenue at Manchester Center .
Service running through Barnumville and to Bennington County towns east of the mountains was in the hands of the `` Gleason Telephone Company '' in 1925 , but major supervision of telephone lines in Manchester was with the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company , which eventually gained all control .
More aerial and underground equipment was installed as well as office improvements to take care of the expanding business .
In 1931 Mrs. F. H. Briggs , agent and chief operator , who was to retire in 1946 with thirty years' service , led agency offices in sales for the year with $2,490 .
William Hitchcock , who retired in 1938 , was a veteran of thirty-four years' local service .
Another veteran telephone operator was Edith Fleming Blackmer , who had been in the office forty years at the time of her death in 1960 .
In 1932 Dorset received its own exchange , which made business easier for the Manchester office , but it was not until February 1953 that area service was extended to include Manchester and Dorset .
This eliminated toll calls between the two towns .
Within a month , calls were up seventy per cent .
Electric power
electricity plays such an important part in community life today that it is difficult to envision a time when current was not available for daily use .
Yet one has to go back only some sixty years .
The first mention of an electric plant in Manchester seems to be one installed in Reuben Colvin's and Houghton's gristmill on the West Branch in Factory Point .
No records are available as to the date or extent of installation , but it may have been in 1896 .
On June 14 , 1900 the Manchester Journal reported that an electrical engineer was installing an electric light plant for Edward S. Isham at `` Ormsby Hill '' .
This was working by the end of August and giving satisfactory service .
In November 1900 surveying was done under John Marsden on the east mountains to ascertain if it would be possible to get sufficient water and fall to operate an electric power plant .
Nothing came of it , perhaps due to lack of opportunity for water storage .
The next step was construction by the Manchester Light and Power Company of a plant on the west bank of the Battenkill south of Union Street bridge .
This was nearly completed May 23 , 1901 with a promise of lights by June 10 , but the first light did not go on until September 28 .
It was at the end of the sidewalk in front of the Dellwood Cemetery cottage .
The first directors of the Manchester Light and Power Company were John Marsden , M. L. Manley , William F. Orvis , George Smith , and John Blackmer .
The officers were John Marsden , president ; ;
John C. Blackmer , vice-president ; ;
George Smith , treasurer ; ;
and William F. Orvis , secretary .
Marsden was manager of the company for ten years and manager of its successor company , the Colonial Light and Power Company , for one year .
At about the time the Marsden enterprise was getting under way , the Vail Light and Lumber Company started construction of a chair stock factory on the site of the present Bennington Co-operative Creamery , intending to use its surplus power for generating electricity .
Manchester then had two competing power companies until 1904 , when the Manchester Light and Power Company purchased the transmission system of the Vail Company .
This was fortunate , as the Vail plant burned in 1905 .
The Colonial Light and Power Company was succeeded by the Vermont Hydro-Electric Corporation , which in turn was absorbed by the Central Vermont Public Service Corporation .
The latter now furnishes the area with electricity distributed from a modern sub-station at Manchester Depot which was put into operation February 19 , 1930 and was improved in January 1942 by the installation of larger transformers .
For a time following the abandonment of the local plant , electric current for Manchester was brought in from the south with an emergency tie-in with the Vermont Marble Company system to the north .
Some who have written on Utopia have treated it as `` a learned diversion of a learned world '' , `` a phantasy with which More amused himself '' , `` a holiday work , a spontaneous overflow of intellectual high spirits , a revel of debate , paradox , comedy and invention '' .
With respect to this view , two points are worth making .
First , it appears to be based on the fact that on its title page Utopia is described as `` festivus '' , `` gay '' .
It overlooks the other fact that it is described as `` Nec minus salutaris quam festivus '' , `` no less salutary than gay '' .
It also overlooks the fact that in a rational lexicon , and quite clearly in More's lexicon , the opposite of serious is not gay but frivolous , and the opposite of gay is not serious but solemn .
More believed that a man could be both serious and gay .
That a writer who is gay cannot be serious is a common professional illusion , sedulously fostered by all too many academics who mistakenly believe that their frivolous efforts should be taken seriously because they are expressed with that dreary solemnity which is the only mode of expression their authors are capable of .
Secondly , to find a learned diversion and a pleasing joke in More's account of the stupid brutalities of early sixteenth century wars , of the anguish of the poor and dispossessed , of the insolence and cruelty of the rich and powerful requires a callousness toward suffering and sin that would be surprising in a moral imbecile and most surprising in More himself .
Indeed , it is even surprising in the Canon of Christ Church and Regius Professor of Ecclesiastical History , who fathered this most peculiar view , and in the brilliant Professor of Medieval and Renaissance English at Cambridge , who inherited it and is now its most eminent proponent .
But to return to the main line of our inquiry , it is doubtful that Utopia is still widely read because More was medieval or even because he was a martyr -- indeed , it is likely that these days many who read Utopia with interest do not even know that its author was a martyr .
Utopia is still widely read because in a sense More stood on the margin of modernity .
And if he did stand on the margins of modernity , it was not in dying a martyr for such unity as Papal supremacy might be able to force on Western Christendom .
It was not even in writing Latin epigrams , sometimes bawdy ones , or in translating Lucian from Greek into Latin or in defending the study of Greek against the attack of conservative academics , or in attacking the conservative theologians who opposed Erasmus's philological study of the New Testament .
Similar literary exercises were the common doings of a Christian humanist of the first two decades of the sixteenth century .
Had More's writings been wholly limited to such exercises , they would be almost as dimly remembered as those of a dozen or so other authors living in his time , whose works tenuously survive in the minds of the few hundred scholars who each decade in pursuit of their very specialized occasions read those works .
More stands on the margins of modernity for one reason alone -- because he wrote Utopia .
And the evidence that he does , indeed , stand there derives quite simply from the vigorous interest with which rather casual readers have responded to that book for the past century or so .
Only one other contemporary of More's evokes so immediate and direct a response , and only one other contemporary work -- Niccolo Machiavelli and The Prince .
Can we discover what it is in Utopia that has evoked this response ? ?
Remember that in seeking the modern in Utopia we do not deny the existence of the medieval and the Renaissance there ; ;
we do not even need to commit ourselves to assessing on the same inconceivable scale the relative importance of the medieval , the Renaissance , and the modern .
The medieval was the most important to Chambers because he sought to place Thomas More , the author of Utopia , in some intelligible relation with St. Thomas More , the martyr .
To others whose concern it is to penetrate the significance of Christian Humanism , the Renaissance elements are of primary concern .
But here we have a distinctly modern preoccupation ; ;
we want to know why that book has kept on selling the way it has ; ;
we want to know what is perennially new about Utopia .
What is new about it ? ?
To that question the answer is simple ; ;
it can be made in two words , Utopian communism .
But it is an answer which opens the door wide to an onrush of objections and denials .
Surely there is nothing new about communism .
We find it in Plato's Republic , and in Utopia More acknowledges his debt to that book .
We find it in that `` common way of life pleasing to Christ and still in use among the truest societies of Christians '' , that is , the better monasteries which made it easier to convert the Utopians to Christianity .
We find it in the later Stoic conception of man's natural condition which included the community of all possessions .
This conception was taken up by the early Church Fathers and by canon lawyers and theologians in the Middle Ages ; ;
and More was far too well read not to have come across it in one or several of the forms thus given it .
But although the idea of communism is very old even in More's day and did not spring full-clad from his imagination in 1515 , it is not communism as such that we are concerned with .
We are concerned not with the genus communism nor with other species of the genus : Platonic , Stoic , early Christian , monastic , canonist or theological communism ; ;
we are concerned with Utopian communism -- that is , simply communism as it appears in the imaginary commonwealth of Utopia , as More conceived it .
Perhaps one way to sharpen our sense of the modernity of Utopian communism is to contrast it with the principal earlier types of communistic theory .
We will achieve a more vivid sense of what it is by realizing what it is not .
In Plato's Republic communism is -- to speak anachronistically -- a communism of Janissaries .
Its function is to separate from the base ruled mass , among whom private ownership prevails , the governing warrior elite .
Moreover , it is too readily forgotten that in the Republic what gave the initial impetus to Plato's excursus into the construction of an imaginary commonwealth with its ruling-class communism of goods , wives , and children , was his quest for a canon for the proper ordering of the individual human psyche ; ;
and it is to this problem that the Republic ultimately returns .
In More's Utopia communism is not a means of separating out a warrior elite from the lumpish mass .
Utopian communism applies to all Utopians .
And in the economy of the book it is not peripheral but central .
The concern of Utopia is with the optimo reipublicae statu , the best ordering of a civil society ; ;
and it is again and again made clear that Utopian communism provides the institutional array indispensible to that best ordering .
To derive Utopian communism from the Jerusalem Christian community of the apostolic age or from its medieval successors-in-spirit , the monastic communities , is with an appropriate shift of adjectives , misleading in the same way as to derive it from Plato's Republic : in the Republic we have to do with an elite of physical and intellectual athletes , in the apostolic and monastic communities with an elite of spiritual and religious athletes .
The apostolic community was literally an elite : chosen by Christ himself .
And the monastic communities were supposed to be made up of volunteers selected only after a novitiate which would test their religious aptitude for monastic rigors , their spiritual athleticism .
Finally , the conception of the natural community of all possessions which originated with the Stoics was firmly fixed in a tradition by More's time , although it was not accepted by all the theologian-philosophers of the Middle Ages .
In that tradition communism lay a safe distance back in the age of innocence before the Fall of Man .
It did not serve to contrast the existing order of society with a possible alternative order , because the age of innocence was not a possible alternative once man had sinned .
The actual function of patristic communism was adequately set forth by St. Gregory almost a millenium before More wrote Utopia .
`` The soil is common to all men .
When we give the necessities of life to the poor , we restore to them what is already theirs .
We should think of it more as an act of justice than compassion '' .
Because community not severalty of property is the law of nature no man can assert an absolutely unalterable right to what is his .
Indeed , of all that is his every man is by nature and reason and therefore by conscience obligated to regard himself as a custodian .
He is a trustee for the common good , however feeble the safeguards which the positive or municipal law of property provides against his misuse of that share of the common fund , wisely or unwisely , entrusted to his keeping .
In contrast to this Stoic-patristic view , Utopia implies that the nature of man is such that to rely on individual conscience to supply the deficiencies of municipal law is to embark on the bottomless sea of human sinfulness in a sieve .
The Utopians brace conscience with legal sanctions .
In a properly ordered society the massive force of public law performs the function which in natural law theory ineptly is left altogether to a small voice so often still .
In all the respects just indicated Utopian communism differs from previous conceptions in which community of possessions and living plays a role .
Neither from one of these conceptions nor from a combination of them can it be deduced .
We do not deny originality to the Agamemnon because Aeschylus found the tales of the house of Atreus among the folk lore of the Greeks .
In a like sense whatever bits or shreds of previous conceptions one may find in it , Utopian communism remains , as an integral whole , original -- a new thing .
It is not merely a new thing ; ;
it is one of the very few new things in Utopia ; ;
most of the rest is medieval or humanist or part of an old tradition of social criticism .
But to say that at a moment in history something is new is not necessarily to say that it is modern ; ;
and for this statement the best evidence comes within the five years following the publication of Utopia , when Martin Luther elaborates a new perception of the nature of the Divine's encounter with man .
New , indeed , is Luther's perception , but not modern , as anyone knows who has ever tried to make intelligible to modern students what Luther was getting at .
Although Utopian communism is both new in 1516 and also modern , it is not modern communism or even modern socialism , as they exist or have ever existed in theory or in practice .
Consider the features of Utopian communism : generous public provision for the infirm ; ;
democratic and secret elections of all officers including priests , meals taken publicly in common refectories ; ;
a common habit or uniform prescribed for all citizens ; ;
even houses changed once a decade ; ;
six hours of manual labor a day for all but a handful of magistrates and scholars , and careful measures to prevent anyone from shirking ; ;
no private property , no money ; ;
no sort of pricing at all for any goods or services , and therefore no market in the economic sense of the term .
Whatever the merits of its intent , Utopian communism is far too naive , far too crude , to suit any modern socialist or communist .
It is not the details of Utopian communism that make Utopia modern , it is the spirit , the attitude of mind that informs those details .
What that spirit and attitude were we can best understand if we see more precisely how it contrasts with the communist tradition with the longest continuous history , the one which reached Christianity by the way of Stoicism through the Church Fathers of Late Antiquity .
During the Dorr trial the Democratic press condemned the proceedings and heralded Dorr as a martyr to the principles of the Declaration of Independence .
During the Brown trial , however , the state's most powerful Democratic newspaper , the Providence Daily Post , stated that Brown was a murderer , a man of blood , and that he and his associates , with the assistance of Republicans and Abolitionists , had plotted not only the liberation of the slaves but also the overthrow of state and federal governments .
The Providence Daily Journal answered the Daily Post by stating that the raid of John Brown was characteristic of Democratic acts of violence and that `` He was acting in direct opposition to the Republican Party , who proclaim as one of their cardinal principles that they do not interfere with slavery in the states '' .
The two major newspapers in Providence continued , throughout the crisis , to accuse each other of misrepresenting the facts and attempting to falsify history .
While the Daily Post continued to accuse Republicans and the Daily Journal continued to accuse Democrats , the Woonsocket Patriot complained that the Virginia authorities showed indecent and cowardly haste to condemn Brown and his men .
Editor Foss stated , `` Of their guilt there can be no doubt but they are entitled to sufficient time to prepare for trial , and a fair trial '' .
The Providence Daily Post thought that there were probably good reasons for the haste in which the trial was being conducted and that the only thing gained by a delay would be calmer feelings .
The Providence Daily Journal stated that although the guilt of Brown was evident , the South must guarantee him a fair trial to preserve domestic peace .
On October 31 , 1859 , John Brown was found guilty of treason against the state of Virginia , inciting slave rebellion , and murder .
For these crimes he was sentenced to be hanged in public on Friday , December 2 , 1859 .
Upon receiving the news , Northern writers , editors , and clergymen heaped accusations of murder on the Southern states , particularly Virginia .
Although Rhode Islanders were preparing for the state elections , they watched John Brown's trial with extreme interest .
On Wednesday morning , November 2 , 1859 , the Providence Daily Journal stated that although Brown justly deserved the extreme penalty , no man , however criminal , ought to suffer the penalty without a fair trial .
The editor's main criticism of the trial was the haste with which it was conducted .
The readers of the Providence Daily Post , however , learned that it was generally conceded that `` Old Brown '' had a fair trial .
Concerning the sentence the editor asked , `` What else can Virginia do than to hang the men who have defied her laws , organized treason , and butchered her citizens '' .
In the eastern section of the state the newspapers' reaction to Brown's trial and sentence were basically identical .
J. Wheaton Smith , editor of the Warren Telegraph stated that `` the ends of justice must be satisfied , a solitary example must be set , in order that all those misnamed philantropists , who , actuated by a blind zeal , dare to instigate riot , treason , and murder , may heed it and shape their future course accordingly '' .
The editor of the Newport Advertiser could discover no evidence of extenuating circumstances in the Brown trial which would warrant making an exception to the infliction of capital punishment .
In direct contrast to the other Rhode Island editors , Samuel S. Foss of the Woonsocket Patriot outwardly condemned the trial as being completely unfair .
Concerning the sentence , Foss wrote , `` If it be possible that mercy shall override vengeance and that John Brown's sentence shall be commuted to imprisonment , it would be well -- well for the country and for Virginia '' .
Despite the excitement being caused by the trial and sentence of John Brown , Rhode Islanders turned their attention to the state elections .
The state had elected Republican candidates in the past two years .
There was no doubt as to the control the Republican party exercised throughout the state .
If it failed on occasion to elect its candidates for general state offices by majorities , the failure was due to a lingering remnant of the Know-Nothing party , which called itself the American Republican party .
The American Republicans and the Republicans both nominated Lieutenant-Governor Turner for governor .
Elisha R. Potter was the Democratic candidate .
The results of the election of 1859 found Republican candidates not only winning the offices of governor and lieutenant-governor but also obtaining the two Congressional offices from the eastern and western sections of the state .
During the month of November hardly a day passed when there was not some mention of John Brown in the Rhode Island newspapers .
On November 7 , 1859 , the Providence Daily Journal reprinted a letter sent to John Brown from `` E. B. '' , a Quaker lady in Newport .
In reference to Brown's raid she wrote , `` though we are non-resistants and religiously believe it better to reform by moral and not by carnal weapons , we know thee was anemated by the most generous and philanthropic motives '' .
`` E. B. '' compared John Brown to Moses in that they were both acting to deliver millions from oppression .
In contrast to `` E. B. '' , most Rhode Islanders hardly thought of John Brown as being another Moses .
Most attempts to develop any sympathy for Brown and his actions found an unresponsive audience in Rhode Island .
On Wednesday evening , November 23 , 1859 , in Warren , Rev. Mark Trafton of New Bedford , gave a `` Mission of Sympathy '' lecture in which he favorably viewed the Harper's Ferry insurrection .
The Warren Telegraph stated that many of Rev. Trafton's remarks were inappropriate and savored strongly of radicalism and fanaticism .
In its account of the Trafton lecture , the Providence Daily Post said that the remarks of Rev. Trafton made the people indignant .
No sympathy or admiration for Brown could be found in the Providence Daily Post , for the editor claimed that there were a score of men in the state prison who were a thousand times more deserving of sympathy .
The Providence Daily Journal , however , stated that Brown's courage , bravery , and heroism `` in a good cause would make a man a martyr ; ;
it gives something of dignity even to a bad one '' .
The Woonsocket Patriot admitted that John Brown might deserve punishment or imprisonment `` but he should no more be hung than Henry A. Wise or James Buchanan '' .
The Newport Mercury exhibited more concern over the possibility of the abolitionists making a martyr of Brown than it did over the development of sympathy for him .
In her letter to John Brown , `` E. B. '' , the Quakeress from Newport , had suggested that the American people owed more honor to John Brown for seeking to free the slaves than they did to George Washington .
During the latter days of November to the day of Brown's execution , it seems that most Rhode Islanders did not concur in `` E. B.'s '' suggestion .
On November 22 , 1859 , the Providence Daily Journal stated that although Brown's `` pluck '' and honest fanaticism must be admired , any honor paid to Brown would only induce other fanatics to imitate his actions .
A week later the Daily Journal had discovered the initial plans of some Providence citizens to hold a meeting honoring John Brown on the day of his execution .
The editor of the Daily Journal warned , `` that if such a demonstration be made , it will not find support or countenance from any of the men whose names are recognized as having a right to speak for Providence '' .
The Providence Daily Post's editor wrote that he could not believe that a meeting honoring Brown was to be held in Providence .
He further called upon the people of Providence to rebuke the meeting and avoid disgrace .
On December 2 , 1859 , John Brown was hanged at Charles Town , Virginia .
Extraordinary precautions were taken so that no stranger be allowed in the city and no citizen within the enclosure surrounding the scaffold .
In many Northern towns and cities meetings were held and church bells were tolled .
Such was not the case in Rhode Island .
The only public demonstration in honor of John Brown was held at Pratt's Hall in Providence , on the day of his execution .
Despite the opposition of the city newspapers , the Pratt Hall meeting `` brought together a very respectable audience , composed in part of those who had been distinguished for years for their radical views upon the subject of slavery , of many of our colored citizens , and of those who were attracted to the place by the novelty of such a gathering '' .
Seated on the platform were Amos C. Barstow , ex-mayor of Providence and a wealthy Republican stove manufacturer ; ;
Thomas Davis , an uncompromising Garrisonian ; ;
the Reverend Augustus Woodbury , a Unitarian minister ; ;
the Reverend George T. Day , a Free-Will Baptist ; ;
Daniel W. Vaughan , and William H. H. Clements .
The latter two were appointed secretaries .
The first speaker was Amos C. Barstow who had been unanimously chosen president of the meeting .
He spoke of his desire to promote the abolition of slavery by peaceable means and he compared John Brown of Harper's Ferry to the John Brown of Rhode Island's colonial period .
Barstow concluded that as Rhode Island's John Brown became a canonized hero , if not a saint , so would it be with John Brown of Harper's Ferry .
The next speaker was George T. Day .
Although admitting Brown's guilt on legal grounds , Day said that , `` Brown is no common criminal ; ;
his deed was not below , but above the law '' .
Following Day was Woodbury who spoke of his disapproval of Brown's attempt at servile insurrection , his admiration of Brown's character , and his opposition to slavery .
Woodbury's remarks were applauded by a portion of the audience several times and once there was hissing .
The fourth and last speaker was Thomas Davis .
By this time large numbers of the audience had left the hall .
Davis commenced his remarks by an allusion to the general feeling of opposition which the meeting had encountered from many of the citizens and all the newspapers of the city .
He said that the propriety or impropriety of such a gathering was a question that was to be settled by every man in accordance with the convictions of private judgments .
In the remainder of his speech Davis spoke of his admiration for Brown and warned those who took part in the meeting that they `` are liable to the charge that they are supporting traitors and upholding men whom the laws have condemned '' .
He recalled that in Rhode Island a party opposed to the state's condemnation of a man ( Thomas W. Dorr ) proclaimed the state's action as a violation of the law of the land and the principles of human liberty .
At the close of Davis' speech the following preamble and resolutions were read by the president , and on the question of their adoption passed unanimously :
Whereas , John Brown has cheerfully risked his life in endeavoring to deliver those who are denied all rights and is this day doomed to suffer death for his efforts in behalf of those who have no helper : Therefore ,
Resolved that , while we most decidedly disapprove the methods he adopted to accomplish his objects , yet in his willingness to die in aid of the great cause of human freedom , we still recognize the qualities of a noble nature and the exercise of a spirit which true men have always admired and which history never fails to honor .
Resolved that his wrongs and bereavements in Kansas , occasioned by the violence and brutality of those who were intent on the propagation of slavery in that territory , call for a charitable judgment upon his recent efforts in Virginia to undermine the despotism from which he had suffered , and commend his family to the special sympathy and aid of all who pity suffering and reverence justice .
Resolved that the anti-slavery sentiment is becoming ripe for resolute action .
Resolved , that we find in this fearful tragedy at Harper's Ferry a reason for more earnest effort to remove the evil of slavery from the whole land as speedily as possible .
On the morning following the Pratt Hall meeting the editor of the Providence Daily Journal wrote that although the meeting was milder and less extreme than those held in other areas for similar purposes , it could have been avoided completely .
Rather than being deceived , the eye is puzzled ; ;
instead of seeing objects in space , it sees nothing more than -- a picture .
Through 1911 and 1912 , as the Cubist facet-plane's tendency to adhere to the literal surface became harder and harder to deny , the task of keeping the surface at arm's length fell all the more to eye-undeceiving contrivances .
To reinforce , and sometimes to replace , the simulated typography , Braque and Picasso began to mix sand and other foreign substances with their paint ; ;
the granular texture thus created likewise called attention to the reality of the surface and was effective over much larger areas .
In certain other pictures , however , Braque began to paint areas in exact simulation of wood graining or marbleizing .
These areas , by virtue of their abrupt density of pattern , stated the literal surface with such new and superior force that the resulting contrast drove the simulated printing into a depth from which it could be rescued -- and set to shuttling again -- only by conventional perspective ; ;
that is , by being placed in such relation to the forms depicted within the illusion that these forms left no room for the typography except near the surface .
The accumulation of such devices , however , soon had the effect of telescoping , even while separating , surface and depth .
The process of flattening seemed inexorable , and it became necessary to emphasize the surface still further in order to prevent it from fusing with the illusion .
It was for this reason , and no other that I can see , that in September 1912 , Braque took the radical and revolutionary step of pasting actual pieces of imitation-woodgrain wallpaper to a drawing on paper , instead of trying to simulate its texture in paint .
Picasso says that he himself had already made his first collage toward the end of 1911 , when he glued a piece of imitation-caning oilcloth to a painting on canvas .
It is true that his first collage looks more Analytical than Braque's , which would confirm the date he assigns it .
But it is also true that Braque was the consistent pioneer in the use of simulated textures as well as of typography ; ;
and moreover , he had already begun to broaden and simplify the facet-planes of Analytical Cubism as far back as the end of 1910 .
When we examine what each master says was his first collage we see that much the same thing happens in each .
( It makes no real difference that Braque's collage is on paper and eked out in charcoal , while Picasso's is on canvas and eked out in oil .
) By its greater corporeal presence and its greater extraneousness , the affixed paper or cloth serves for a seeming moment to push everything else into a more vivid idea of depth than the simulated printing or simulated textures had ever done .
But here again , the surface-declaring device both overshoots and falls short of its aim .
For the illusion of depth created by the contrast between the affixed material and everything else gives way immediately to an illusion of forms in bas-relief , which gives way in turn , and with equal immediacy , to an illusion that seems to contain both -- or neither .
Because of the size of the areas it covers , the pasted paper establishes undepicted flatness bodily , as more than an indication or sign .
Literal flatness now tends to assert itself as the main event of the picture , and the device boomerangs : the illusion of depth is rendered even more precarious than before .
Instead of isolating the literal flatness by specifying and circumscribing it , the pasted paper or cloth releases and spreads it , and the artist seems to have nothing left but this undepicted flatness with which to finish as well as start his picture .
The actual surface becomes both ground and background , and it turns out -- suddenly and paradoxically -- that the only place left for a three-dimensional illusion is in front of , upon , the surface .
In their very first collages , Braque and Picasso draw or paint over and on the affixed paper or cloth , so that certain of the principal features of their subjects as depicted seem to thrust out into real , bas-relief space -- or to be about to do so -- while the rest of the subject remains imbedded in , or flat upon , the surface .
And the surface is driven back , in its very surfaceness , only by this contrast .
In the upper center of Braque's first collage , Fruit Dish ( in Douglas Cooper's collection ) , a bunch of grapes is rendered with such conventionally vivid sculptural effect as to lift it practically off the picture plane .
The trompe-l'oeil illusion here is no longer enclosed between parallel flatnesses , but seems to thrust through the surface of the drawing paper and establish depth on top of it .
Yet the violent immediacy of the wallpaper strips pasted to the paper , and the only lesser immediacy of block capitals that simulate window lettering , manage somehow to push the grape cluster back into place on the picture plane so that it does not `` jump '' .
At the same time , the wallpaper strips themselves seem to be pushed into depth by the lines and patches of shading charcoaled upon them , and by their placing in relation to the block capitals ; ;
and these capitals seem in turn to be pushed back by their placing , and by contrast with the corporeality of the woodgraining .
Thus every part and plane of the picture keeps changing place in relative depth with every other part and plane ; ;
and it is as if the only stable relation left among the different parts of the picture is the ambivalent and ambiguous one that each has with the surface .
And the same thing , more or less , can be said of the contents of Picasso's first collage .
In later collages of both masters , a variety of extraneous materials are used , sometimes in the same work , and almost always in conjunction with every other eye-deceiving and eye-undeceiving device they can think of .
The area adjacent to one edge of a piece of affixed material -- or simply of a painted-in form -- will be shaded to pry that edge away from the surface , while something will be drawn , painted or even pasted over another part of the same shape to drive it back into depth .
Planes defined as parallel to the surface also cut through it into real space , and a depth is suggested optically which is greater than that established pictorially .
All this expands the oscillation between surface and depth so as to encompass fictive space in front of the surface as well as behind it .
Flatness may now monopolize everything , but it is a flatness become so ambiguous and expanded as to turn into illusion itself -- at least an optical if not , properly speaking , a pictorial illusion .
Depicted , Cubist flatness is now almost completely assimilated to the literal , undepicted kind , but at the same time it reacts upon and largely transforms the undepicted kind -- and it does so , moreover , without depriving the latter of its literalness ; ;
rather , it underpins and reinforces that literalness , re-creates it .
Out of this re-created literalness , the Cubist subject reemerged .
For it had turned out , by a further paradox of Cubism , that the means to an illusion of depth and plasticity had now become widely divergent from the means of representation or imaging .
In the Analytical phase of their Cubism , Braque and Picasso had not only had to minimize three-dimensionality simply in order to preserve it ; ;
they had also had to generalize it -- to the point , finally , where the illusion of depth and relief became abstracted from specific three-dimensional entities and was rendered largely as the illusion of depth and relief as such : as a disembodied attribute and expropriated property detached from everything not itself .
In order to be saved , plasticity had had to be isolated ; ;
and as the aspect of the subject was transposed into those clusters of more or less interchangeable and contour-obliterating facet-planes by which plasticity was isolated under the Cubist method , the subject itself became largely unrecognizable .
Cubism , in its 1911-1912 phase ( which the French , with justice , call `` hermetic '' ) was on the verge of abstract art .
It was then that Picasso and Braque were confronted with a unique dilemma : they had to choose between illusion and representation .
If they opted for illusion , it could only be illusion per se -- an illusion of depth , and of relief , so general and abstracted as to exclude the representation of individual objects .
If , on the other hand , they opted for representation , it had to be representation per se -- representation as image pure and simple , without connotations ( at least , without more than schematic ones ) of the three-dimensional space in which the objects represented originally existed .
It was the collage that made the terms of this dilemma clear : the representational could be restored and preserved only on the flat and literal surface now that illusion and representation had become , for the first time , mutually exclusive alternatives .
In the end , Picasso and Braque plumped for the representational , and it would seem they did so deliberately .
( This provides whatever real justification there is for the talk about `` reality '' .
) But the inner , formal logic of Cubism , as it worked itself out through the collage , had just as much to do with shaping their decision .
When the smaller facet-planes of Analytical Cubism were placed upon or juxtaposed with the large , dense shapes formed by the affixed materials of the collage , they had to coalesce -- become `` synthesized '' -- into larger planar shapes themselves simply in order to maintain the integrity of the picture plane .
Left in their previous atom-like smallness , they would have cut away too abruptly into depth ; ;
and the broad , opaque shapes of pasted paper would have been isolated in such a way as to make them jump out of plane .
Large planes juxtaposed with other large planes tend to assert themselves as independent shapes , and to the extent that they are flat , they also assert themselves as silhouettes ; ;
and independent silhouettes are apt to coincide with the recognizable contours of the subject from which a picture starts ( if it does start from a subject ) .
It was because of this chain-reaction as much as for any other reason -- that is , because of the growing independence of the planar unit in collage as a shape -- that the identity of depicted objects , or at least parts of them , re-emerged in Braque's and Picasso's papiers colles and continued to remain more conspicuous there -- but only as flattened silhouettes -- than in any of their paintings done wholly in oil before the end of 1913 .
Analytical Cubism came to an end in the collage , but not conclusively ; ;
nor did Synthetic Cubism fully begin there .
Only when the collage had been exhaustively translated into oil , and transformed by this translation , did Cubism become an affair of positive color and flat , interlocking silhouettes whose legibility and placement created allusions to , if not the illusion of , unmistakable three-dimensional identities .
Synthetic Cubism began with Picasso alone , late in 1913 or early in 1914 ; ;
this was the point at which he finally took the lead in Cubist innovation away from Braque , never again to relinquish it .
But even before that , Picasso had glimpsed and entered , for a moment , a certain revolutionary path in which no one had preceded him .
It was as though , in that instant , he had felt the flatness of collage as too constricting and had suddenly tried to escape all the way back -- or forward -- to literal three-dimensionality .
This he did by using utterly literal means to carry the forward push of the collage ( and of Cubism in general ) literally into the literal space in front of the picture plane .
Some time in 1912 , Picasso cut out and folded a piece of paper in the shape of a guitar ; ;
to this he glued and fitted other pieces of paper and four taut strings , thus creating a sequence of flat surfaces in real and sculptural space to which there clung only the vestige of a picture plane .
The affixed elements of collage were extruded , as it were , and cut off from the literal pictorial surface to form a bas-relief .
Los Angeles in 1957 finally bowed to the skyscraper .
) And without high density in the core , rapid-transit systems cannot be maintained economically , let alone built from scratch at today's prices .
However , the building of freeways and garages cannot continue forever .
The new interchange among the four Los Angeles freeways , including the grade-constructed accesses , occupies by itself no less than eighty acres of downtown land , one-eighth of a square mile , an area about the size of Rockefeller Center in New York .
It is hard to believe that this mass of intertwined concrete constitutes what the law calls `` the highest and best use '' of centrally located urban land .
As it affects the city's fiscal situation , such an interchange is ruinous ; ;
it removes forever from the tax rolls property which should be taxed to pay for the city services .
Subways improved land values without taking away land ; ;
freeways boost valuation less ( because the garages they require are not prime buildings by a long shot ) , and reduce the acreage that can be taxed .
Downtown Los Angeles is already two-thirds freeway , interchange , street , parking lot and garage -- one of those preposterous `` if '' statistics has already come to pass .
The freeway with narrowly spaced interchanges concentrates and mitigates the access problem , but it also acts inevitably as an artificial , isolating boundary .
City planners do not always use this boundary as effectively as they might .
Less ambitious freeway plans may be more successful -- especially when the roadways and interchanges are raised , allowing for cross access at many points and providing parking areas below the ramp .
Meanwhile , the automobile and its friend the truck have cost the central city some of its industrial dominance .
In ever greater numbers , factories are locating in the suburbs or in `` industrial parks '' removed from the city's political jurisdiction .
The appeal of the suburb is particularly strong for heavy industry , which must move bulky objects along a lengthy assembly line and wants enough land area to do the entire job on one floor .
To light industry , the economies of being on one floor are much slighter , but efficiency engineers usually believe in them , and manufacturers looking for ways to cut costs cannot be prevented from turning to efficiency engineers .
This movement of industry away from the central cities is not so catastrophically new as some prophets seem to believe .
It is merely the latest example of the leapfrog growth which formed the pattern of virtually all American cities .
The big factories which are relatively near the centers of our cities -- the rubber factories in Akron , Chrysler's Detroit plants , U.S. Steel's Pittsburgh works -- often began on these sites at a time when that was the edge of the city , yet close to transport ( river ) , storage ( piers ) and power ( river ) .
The `` leapfrog '' was a phenomenon of the railroad and the steam turbine , and the time when the belts of residence surrounding the old factory area were not yet blighted .
The truck and the car gave the manufacturer a new degree of freedom in selecting his plant site .
Until internal combustion became cheap , he had to be near a railroad siding and a trolley line or an existing large community of lower-class homes .
The railroad siding is still important -- it is usually , though not always , true that long-haul shipment by rail is cheaper than trucking .
But anybody who promises a substantial volume of business can get a railroad to run a short spur to his plant these days , and many businesses can live without the railroad .
And there are now many millions of workers for whom the factory with the big parking lot , which can be reached by driving across or against the usual pattern of rush hour traffic and grille-route bus lines , is actually more convenient than the walk-to factory .
Willow Run , General Electric's enormous installations at Louisville and Syracuse , the Pentagon , Boeing in Seattle , Douglas and Lockheed in Los Angeles , the new automobile assembly plants everywhere -- none of these is substantially served by any sort of conventional mass rapid transit .
They are all suburban plants , relying on the roads to keep them supplied with workers .
And wherever the new thruways go up their banks are lined by neat glass and metal and colored brick light industry .
The drive along Massachusetts' Route 128 , the by-pass which makes an arc about twenty miles from downtown Boston , may be a vision of the future .
The future could be worse .
The plants along Route 128 are mostly well designed and nicely set against the New England rocks and trees .
They can even be rather grand , like Edward Land's monument to the astonishing success of Polaroid .
But they deny the values of the city -- the crowded , competitive , tolerant city , the `` melting pot '' which gave off so many of the most admirable American qualities .
They are segregated businesses , combining again on one site the factory and the office , drawing their work force from segregated communities .
It is interesting to note how many of the plants on Massachusetts' Route 128 draw most of their income either from the government in non-competitive cost-plus arrangements , or from the exploitation of patents which grant at least a partial monopoly .
While the factories were always the center of the labor market , they were often on the city's periphery .
In spreading the factories even farther , the automobile may not have changed to any great extent the growth pattern of the cities .
Even the loss of hotel business to the outskirt's motel has been relatively painless ; ;
the hotel-motel demarcation is becoming harder to find every year .
What hurts most is the damage the automobile has done to central-city retailing , especially in those cities where public transit is feeble .
Some retailing , of course , always spreads with the population -- grocery stores , drugstores , local haberdasheries and dress shops , candy stores and the like .
But whenever a major purchase was contemplated forty years ago -- a new bedroom set or a winter coat , an Easter bonnet , a bicycle for Junior -- the family set off for the downtown department store , where the selection would be greatest .
