As a free-lance investigator , the fictional detective is responsible to no one but himself and his client .
For this reason , he appears as an independent and self-reliant figure , whose rugged individualism need not be pressed into the mold of a 9 to 5 routine .
On the other hand , the fictional detective does not break strikes or handle divorce cases ; ;
no client would ever think of asking him to do such things .
Whatever his original assignment , the fictional private eye ends up by investigating and solving a crime , usually a murder .
Operating as a one man police force in fact if not in name , he is at once more independent and more dedicated than the police themselves .
He catches criminals not merely because he is paid to do so ( frequently he does not receive a fee at all ) , but because he enjoys his work , because he firmly believes that murder must be punished .
Thus the fictional detective is much more than a simple businessman .
He is , first and foremost , a defender of public morals , a servant of society .
It is this curious blend of rugged individualism and public service which accounts for the great appeal of the mythological detective .
By virtue of his self-reliance , his individualism and his freedom from external restraint , the private eye is a perfect embodiment of the middle class conception of liberty , which amounts to doing what you please and let the devil take the hindmost .
At the same time , because the personal code of the detective coincides with the legal dictates of his society , because he likes to catch criminals , he is in middle class eyes a virtuous man .
In this way , the private detective gets the best of two possible worlds .
He is an individualist but not an anarchist ; ;
he is a public servant but not a cop .
In short , the fictional private eye is a specialized version of Adam Smith's ideal entrepreneur , the man whose private ambitions must always and everywhere promote the public welfare .
In the mystery story , as in The Wealth of Nations , individualism and the social good are two sides of the same benevolent coin .
There is only one catch to this idyllic arrangement : Adam Smith was wrong .
Not only did the ideal entrepreneur not produce the greatest good for the greatest number , he ended by destroying himself , by giving birth to monopoly capitalism .
The rise of the giant corporations in Western Europe and the United States dates from the period 1880-1900 .
Now , although the roots of the mystery story in serious literature go back as far as Balzac , Dickens , and Poe , it was not until the closing decades of the 19th century that the private detective became an established figure in popular fiction .
Sherlock Holmes , the ancestor of all private eyes , was born during the 1890s .
Thus the transformation of Adam Smith's ideal entrepreneur into a mythological detective coincides closely with the decline of the real entrepreneur in economic life .
Driven from the marketplace by the course of history , our hero disguises himself as a private detective .
The birth of the myth compensates for the death of the ideal .
Even on the fictional level , however , the contradictions which give rise to the mystery story are not fully resolved .
The individualism and public service of the private detective both stem from his dedication to a personal code of conduct : he enforces the law without being told to do so .
The private eye is therefore a moral man ; ;
but his morality rests upon that of his society .
The basic premise of all mystery stories is that the distinction between good and bad coincides with the distinction between legal and illegal .
Unfortunately , this assumption does not always hold good .
As capitalism in the 20th century has become increasingly dependent upon force and violence for its survival , the private detective is placed in a serious dilemma .
If he is good , he may not be legal ; ;
if he is legal , he may not be good .
It is the gradual unfolding and deepening of this contradiction which creates the inner dialectic of the evolution of the mystery story .
With the advent of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes , the development of the modern private detective begins .
Sherlock Holmes is not merely an individualist ; ;
he is very close to being a mental case .
A brief list of the great detective's little idiosyncrasies would provide Dr. Freud with ample food for thought .
Holmes is addicted to the use of cocaine and other refreshing stimulants ; ;
he is prone to semi-catatonic trances induced by the playing of the vioiln ; ;
he is a recluse , an incredible egotist , a confirmed misogynist .
Holmes rebels against the social conventions of his day not on moral but rather on aesthetic grounds .
His eccentricity begins as a defense against boredom .
It was in order to avoid the stuffy routine of middle class life that Holmes became a detective in the first place .
As he informs Watson , `` My life is spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence .
These little problems help me to do so '' .
Holmes is a public servant , to be sure ; ;
but the society which he serves bores him to tears .
The curious relationship between Holmes and Scotland Yard provides an important clue to the deeper significance of his eccentric behavior .
Although he is perfectly willing to cooperate with Scotland Yard , Holmes has nothing but contempt for the intelligence and mentality of the police .
They for their part are convinced that Holmes is too `` unorthodox '' and `` theoretical '' to make a good detective .
Why do the police find Holmes `` unorthodox '' ? ?
On the face of it , it is because he employs deductive techniques alien to official police routine .
Another , more interesting explanation , is hinted at by Watson when he observes on several occasions that Holmes would have made a magnificent criminal .
The great detective modestly agrees .
Watson's insight is verified by the mysterious link between Holmes and his arch-opponent , Dr. Moriarty .
The two men resemble each other closely in their cunning , their egotism , their relentlessness .
The first series of Sherlock Holmes adventures ends with Holmes and Moriarty grappling together on the edge of a cliff .
They are presumed to have plunged to a common grave in this fatal embrace .
Linked to Holmes even in death , Moriarty represents the alter-ego of the great detective , the image of what our hero might have become were he not a public servant .
Just as Holmes the eccentric stands behind Holmes the detective , so Holmes the potential criminal lurks behind both .
In the modern English `` whodunnit '' , this insinuation of latent criminality in the detective himself has almost entirely disappeared .
Hercule Poirot and Lord Peter Whimsey ( the respective creations of Agatha Christie and Dorothy Sayers ) have retained Holmes' egotism but not his zest for life and eccentric habits .
Poirot and his counterparts are perfectly respectable people ; ;
it is true that they are also extremely dull .
Their dedication to the status quo has been affirmed at the expense of the fascinating but dangerous individualism of a Sherlock Holmes .
The latter's real descendents were unable to take root in England ; ;
they fled from the Victorian parlor and made their way across the stormy Atlantic .
In the American `` hardboiled '' detective story of the '20s and '30s , the spirit of the mad genius from Baker Street lives on .
Like Holmes , the American private eye rejects the social conventions of his time .
But unlike Holmes , he feels his society to be not merely dull but also corrupt .
Surrounded by crime and violence everywhere , the `` hardboiled '' private eye can retain his purity only through a life of self-imposed isolation .
His alienation is far more acute than Holmes' ; ;
he is not an eccentric but rather an outcast .
With Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe , alienation is represented on a purely physical plane .
Wolfe refuses to ever leave his own house , and spends most of his time drinking beer and playing with orchids .
More profound and more disturbing , however , is the moral isolation of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe .
In a society where everything is for sale , Marlowe is the only man who cannot be bought .
His tough honesty condemns him to a solitary and difficult existence .
Beaten , bruised and exhausted , he pursues the elusive killer through the demi-monde of high society and low morals , always alone , always despised .
In the end , he gets his man , but no one seems to care ; ;
virtue is its own and only reward .
A similar tone of underlying futility and despair pervades the spy thrillers of Eric Ambler and dominates the most famous of all American mystery stories , Dashiell Hammett's The Maltese Falcon .
Sam Spade joins forces with a band of adventurers in search of a priceless jeweled statue of a falcon ; ;
but when the bird is found at last , it turns out to be a fake .
Now the detective must save his own skin by informing on the girl he loves , who is also the real murderer .
For Sam Spade , neither crime nor virtue pays ; ;
moreover , it is increasingly difficult to distinguish between the two .
Because the private eye intends to save society in spite of himself , he invariably finds himself in trouble with the police .
The latter are either too stupid to catch the killer or too corrupt to care .
In either case , they do not appreciate the private detective's zeal .
Perry Mason and Hamilton Burger , Nero Wolfe and Inspector Cramer spend more time fighting each other than they do in looking for the criminal .
Frequently enough , the police are themselves in league with the killer ; ;
Dashiell Hammett's Red Harvest provides a classic example of this theme .
But even when the police are honest , they do not trust the private eye .
He is , like Phillip Marlowe , too alienated to be reliable .
Finally , in The Maltese Falcon among others , the clash between detective and police is carried to its logical conclusion : Sam Spade becomes the chief murder suspect .
In order to exonerate himself , he is compelled to find the real criminal , who happens to be his girl friend .
What was only a vague suspicion in the case of Sherlock Holmes now appears as a direct accusation : the private eye is in danger of turning into his opposite .
It is the growing contradiction between individualism and public service in the mystery story which creates this fatal dilemma .
By upholding his own personal code of behavior , the private detective has placed himself in opposition to a society whose fabric is permeated with crime and corruption .
That society responds by condemning the private eye as a threat to the status quo , a potential criminal .
If the detective insists upon retaining his personal standards , he must now do so in conscious defiance of his society .
He must , in short , cease to be a detective and become a rebel .
On the other hand , if he wishes to continue in his chosen profession , he must abandon his own code and sacrifice his precious individualism .
Dashiell Hammett resolved this contradiction by ceasing to write mystery stories and turning to other pursuits .
His successors have adopted the opposite alternative .
In order to save the mystery story , they have converted the private detective into an organization man .
The first of two possible variations on this theme is symbolized by Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer .
At first glance , this hero seems to be more rather than less of an individualist than any of his predecessors .
For Hammer , nothing is forbidden .
He kills when he pleases , takes his women where he finds them and always acts as judge , jury and executioner rolled into one .
It will be shown that the objectives of the cooperative people in an organization determine the type of network required , because the type of network functions according to the characteristics of the messages enumerated in Table 1 .
Great stress is placed on the role that the monitoring of information sending plays in maintaining the effectiveness of the network .
By monitoring , we mean some system of control over the types of information sent from the various centers .
As a word of caution , we should be aware that in actual practice no message is purely one of the four types , question , command , statement , or exclamation .
For example , suppose a man wearing a $200 watch , driving a 1959 Rolls Royce , stops to ask a man on the sidewalk , `` What time is it '' ? ?
This sentence would have most of the characteristics of a question , but it has some of the characteristics of a statement because the questioner has conveyed the fact that he has no faith in his own timepiece or the one attached to his car .
If the man on the sidewalk is surprised at this question , it has served as an exclamation .
Also , since the man questioned feels a strong compulsion to answer ( and thereby avoid the consequences of being thought queer ) the question has assumed some measurable properties of a command .
However , for convenience we will stick to the idea that information can be classified according to Table 1 .
On this basis , certain extreme kinds of networks will be discussed for illustrative purposes .
Networks illustrating some special types of organization
the cocktail party .
Presumably a cocktail party is expected to fulfill the host's desire to get together a number of people who are inadequately acquainted and thereby arrange for bringing the level of acquaintance up to adequacy for future cooperative endeavors .
The party is usually in a room small enough so that all guests are within sight and hearing of one another .
The information is furnished by each of the guests , is sent by oral broadcasting over the air waves , and is received by the ears .
Since the air is a continuum , the network of communication remains intact regardless of the positions or motions of the points ( the people ) in the net .
As shown in Figure 1 , there is a connection for communication between every pair of points .
This , and other qualifications , make the cocktail party the most complete and most chaotic communication system ever dreamed up .
All four types of message listed in Table 1 are permitted , although decorum and cocktail tradition require holding the commands to a minimum , while exclamations having complimentary intonations are more than customarily encouraged .
The completeness of the connections provide that , for N people , there are Af lines of communication between the pairs , which can become a large number ( 1,225 ) for a party of fifty guests .
Looking at the diagram , we see that Af connection lines come in to each member .
Thus the cocktail party would appear to be the ideal system , but there is one weakness .
In spite of the dreams of the host for oneness in the group , the Af incoming messages for each guest overload his receiving system beyond comprehension if N exceeds about six .
The crowd consequently breaks up into temporary groups ranging in size from two to six , with a half-life for the cluster ranging from three to twenty minutes .
For the occasion on which everyone already knows everyone else and the host wishes them to meet one or a few honored newcomers , then the `` open house '' system is advantageous because the honored guests are fixed connective points and the drifting guests make and break connections at the door .
The rural community .
We consider a rural community as an assemblage of inhabited dwellings whose configuration is determined by the location and size of the arable land sites necessary for family subsistence .
We assume for this illustration that the size of the land plots is so great that the distance between dwellings is greater than the voice can carry and that most of the communication is between nearest neighbors only , as shown in Figure 2 .
Information beyond nearest neighbor is carried second- , third- , and fourth-hand as a distortable rumor .
In Figure 2 , the points in the network are designated by a letter accompanied by a number .
The numbers indicate the number of nearest neighbors .
It will be noted that point f has seven nearest neighbors , h and e have six , and p has only one , while the remaining points have intermediate numbers .
In any social system in which communications have an importance comparable with that of production and other human factors , a point like f in Figure 2 would ( other things being equal ) be the dwelling place for the community leader , while e and h would house the next most important citizens .
A point like p gets information directly from n , but all information beyond n is indirectly relayed through n .
The dweller at p is last to hear about a new cure , the slowest to announce to his neighbors his urgent distresses , the one who goes the farthest to trade , and the one with the greatest difficulty of all in putting over an idea or getting people to join him in a cooperative effort .
Since the hazards of poor communication are so great , p can be justified as a habitable site only on the basis of unusual productivity such as is made available by a waterfall for milling purposes , a mine , or a sugar maple camp .
Location theorists have given these matters much consideration .
Military organizations .
The networks for military communications are one of the best examples of networks which not only must be changed with the changes in objectives but also must be changed with the addition of new machines of war .
They also furnish proof that , in modern war , message sending must be monitored .
Without monitoring , a military hookup becomes a noisy party .
The need for monitoring became greater when radio was adopted for military signaling .
Alexander the Great , who used runners as message carriers , did not have to worry about having every officer in his command hear what he said and having hundreds of them comment at once .
As time has passed and science has progressed , the speed of military vehicles has increased , the range of missiles has been extended , the use of target-hunting noses on the projectiles has been adopted , and the range and breadth of message sending has increased .
Next to the old problem of the slowness of decision making , network structure seems to be paramount , and without monitoring no network has value .
On the parade ground the net may be similar to that shown in Figure 3 .
The monitoring is the highest and most restrictive of any organization in existence .
No questions , statements , or explanations are permitted -- only commands .
Commands go only from an officer to the man of nearest lower rank .
The same command is repeated as many times as there are levels in rank from general to corporal .
All orders originate with the officer of highest rank and terminate with action of the men in the ranks .
Even the officer in charge , be it a captain ( for small display ) or a general , is restrained by monitoring .
This is done for simplicity of commands and to bring the hidden redundancy up to where misunderstanding has almost zero possibility .
The commands are specified by the military regulations ; ;
are few in number , briefly worded , all different in sound ; ;
and are combinable into sequences which permit any marching maneuver that could be desired on a parade ground .
This monitoring is necessary because , on a parade ground , everyone can hear too much , and without monitoring a confused social event would develop .
With troops dispersed on fields of battle rather than on the parade ground , it may seem that a certain amount of monitoring is automatically enforced by the lines of communication .
Years ago this was true , but with the replacement of wires or runners by radio and radar ( and perhaps television ) , these restrictions have disappeared and now again too much is heard .
In contrast to cocktail parties , military organizations , even in the field , are more formal .
In the extreme and oversimplified example suggested in Figure 3 , the organization is more easily understood and more predictable in behavior .
A military organization has an objective chosen by the higher command .
This objective is adhered to throughout the duration of the action .
The connective system , or network , is tailored to meet the requirements of the objective , and it is therefore not surprising that a military body acting as a single coordinated unit has a different communication network than a factory , a college , or a rural village .
The assumptions upon which the example shown in Figure 3 is based are : ( A ) One man can direct about six subordinates if the subordinates are chosen carefully so that they do not need too much personal coaching , indoctrinating , etc. .
( B ) A message runs too great a risk of being distorted if it is to be relayed more than about six consecutive times .
( C ) Decisions of a general kind are made by the central command .
And ( D ) all action of a physical kind pertinent to the mission is relegated to the line of men on the lower rank .
These assumptions lead to an organization with one man at the top , six directly under him , six under each of these , and so on until there are six levels of personnel .
The number of people acting as one body by this scheme gives a surprisingly large army of 55,987 men .
This organizational network would be of no avail if there were no regulations pertaining to the types of message sent .
Of types of message listed in Table 1 , commands and statements are the only ones sent through the vertical network shown in Figure 3 .
A further regulation is that commands always go down , unaccompanied by statements , and statements always go up , unaccompanied by commands .
Questions and , particularly , exclamations are usually channeled along informal , horizontal lines not indicated in Figure 3 and seldom are carried beyond the nearest neighbor .
It will readily be seen that in this suggested network ( not materially different from some of the networks in vogue today ) greater emphasis on monitoring is implied than is usually put into practice .
Furthermore , the network in Figure 3 is only the basic net through which other networks pertaining to logistics and the like are interlaced .
Not discussed here are some military problems of modern times such as undersea warfare , where the surveillance , sending , transmitting , and receiving are all so inadequate that networks and decision making are not the bottlenecks .
Such problems are of extreme interest as well as importance and are so much like fighting in a rain forest or guerrilla warfare at night in tall grass that we might have to re-examine primitive conflicts for what they could teach .
A team for useful research .
This is an unsolved problem which probably has never been seriously investigated , although one frequently hears the comment that we have insufficient specialists of the kind who can compete with the Germans or Swiss , for example , in precision machinery and mathematics , or the Finns in geochemistry .
We hear equally fervent concern over the belief that we have not enough generalists who can see the over-all picture and combine our national skills and knowledge for useful purposes .
This problem of the optimum balance in the relative numbers of generalists and specialists can be investigated on a communicative network basis .
Since the difficulty of drawing the net is great , we will merely discuss it .
First , we realize that a pure specialist does not exist .
But , for practical purposes , we have people who can be considered as such .
For example , there are persons who are in physical science , in the field of mineralogy , trained in crystallography , who use only X-rays , applying only the powder technique of X-ray diffraction , to clay minerals only , and who have spent the last fifteen years concentrating on the montmorillonites ; ;
or persons in the social sciences in the field of anthropology , studying the lung capacity of seven Andean Indians .
So we see that a specialist is a man who knows more and more about less and less as he develops , as contrasted to the generalist , who knows less and less about more and more .
American democratic thought , pointed up the relation between the Protestant movement in this country and the development of a social religion , which he called the American Democratic Faith .
Those familiar with his work will remember that he placed the incipience of the democratic faith at around 1850 .
And he describes it as a balanced polarity between the notions of the free individual and what he called the fundamental law .
I want to say more about Gabriel's so-called fundamental law .
But first I want to quote him on the relationship that he found between religion and politics in this country and what happened to it .
He points out that from the time of Jackson on through World War 1 , , evangelical Protestantism was a dominant influence in the social and political life of America .
He terms this early enthusiasm `` Romantic Christianity '' and concludes that its similarity to democratic beliefs of that day is so great that `` the doctrine of liberty seems but a secular version of its counterpart in evangelical Protestantism '' .
Let me quote him even more fully , for his analysis is important to my theme .
He says : `` beside the Protestant philosophy of Progress , as expressed in radical or conservative millenarianism , should be placed the doctrine of the democratic faith which affirmed it to be the duty of the destiny of the United States to assist in the creation of a better world by keeping lighted the beacon of democracy '' .
He specifies , `` in the middle period of the Nineteenth Century it was colored by Christian supernaturalism , in the Twentieth Century it was affected by naturalism .
But in every period it has been humanism '' .
And let me add , utopianism , also .
Some fourteen or fifteen years ago , in an essay I called The Leader Follows -- Where ? ?
I used his polarity to illustrate what I thought had happened to us in that form of liberalism we call Progressivism .
It seemed to me that the liberals had scrapped the balanced polarity and reposed both liberty and the fundamental law in the common man .
That is to say Gabriel's fundamental law had been so much modified by this time that it was neither fundamental nor law any more .
It is a weakness of Gabriel's analysis that he never seems to realize that his so-called fundamental law had already been cut loose from its foundations when it was adapted to democracy .
And with Progressivism the Religion of Humanity was replacing what Gabriel called Christian supernaturalism .
And the common man was developing mythic power , or charisma , on his own .
During the decade that followed , the common man , as that piece put it , grew uncomfortable as the Voice of God and fled from behind Saint Woodrow ( Wilson ) only to learn from Science , to his shocked relief that after all there was no God he had to speak for and that he was just an animal anyhow -- that there was a chemical formula for him , and that too much couldn't be expected of him .
The socialism implicit in the slogan of the Roosevelt Revolution , freedom from want and fear , seems a far cry from the individualism of the First Amendment to the Constitution , or of the Jacksonian frontier .
What had happened to the common man ? ?
French Egalitarianism had had only nominal influence in this country before the days of Popularism .
The riotous onrush of industrialism after the War for Southern Independence and the general secular drift to the Religion of Humanity , however , prepared the way for a reception of the French Revolution's socialistic offspring of one sort of another .
The first of which to find important place in our federal government was the graduated income tax under Wilson .
Moreover the centralization of our economy during the 1920s , the dislocations of the Depression , the common ethos of Materialism everywhere , all contributed in various ways to the face-lifting that replaced Mike Fink and the Great Gatsby with the anonymous physiognomy of the Little People .
However , it is important to trace the philosophy of the French Revolution to its sources to understand the common democratic origin of individualism and socialism and the influence of the latter on the former .
That John Locke's philosophy of the social contract fathered the American Revolution with its Declaration of Independence , I believe , we generally accept .
Yet , after Rousseau had given the social contract a new twist with his notion of the General Will , the same philosophy , it may be said , became the idea source of the French Revolution also .
The importance of Rousseau's twist has not always been clear to us , however .
This notion of the General Will gave rise to the Commune of Paris in the Revolution and later brought Napoleon to dictatorship .
And it is clearly argued by Lord Percy of Newcastle , in his remarkable long essay , The Heresy Of Democracy , and in a more general way by Voegelin , in his New Science Of Politics , that this same Rousseauan idea , descending through European democracy , is the source of Marx's theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat .
This is important to understanding the position that doctrinaire liberals found themselves in after World War 2 , and our great democratic victory that brought no peace .
The long road that had taken liberals in this country into the social religion of democracy , into a worship of man , led logically to the Marxist dream of a classless society under a Socialist State .
And the ussr existed as the revolutionary experiment in radical socialism , the ultimate exemplar .
And by the time the war ended , liberal leadership in this country was spiritually Marxist .
We will recall that the still confident liberals of the Truman administration gathered with other Western utopians in San Francisco to set up the legal framework , finally and at last , to rationalize war -- to rationalize want and fear -- out of the world : the United Nations .
We of the liberal-led world got all set for peace and rehabilitation .
Then suddenly we found ourselves in the middle of another fight , an irrational , an indecent , an undeclared and immoral war with our strongest ( and some had thought noblest ) ally .
During the next five years the leaders of the Fair Deal reluctantly backed down from the optimistic expectations of the New Deal .
During the next five years liberal leaders in the United States sank in the cumulative confusion attendant upon and manifested in a negative policy of Containment -- and the bitterest irony -- enforced and enforceable only by threat of a weapon that we felt the greatest distaste for but could not abandon : the atom bomb .
In 1952 , it will be remembered , the G.O.P. without positive program campaigned on the popular disillusionment with liberal leadership and won overwhelmingly .
All of this , I know , is recent history familiar to you .
But I have been at some pains to review it as the drama of the common man , to point up what happened to him under Eisenhower's leadership .
A perceptive journalist , Sam Lubell , has phrased it in the title of one of his books as the revolt of the moderates .
He opens his discourse , however , with a review of the Eisenhower inaugural festivities at which a sympathetic press had assembled its massive talents , all primed to catch some revelation of the emerging new age .
The show was colorful , indeed , exuberant , but the press for all its assiduity could detect no note of a fateful rendezvous with destiny .
Lubell offers his book as an explanation of why there was no clue .
And I select this sentence as its pertinent summation : `` in essence the drama of his ( Eisenhower's ) Presidency can be described as the ordeal of a nation turned conservative and struggling -- thus far with but limited and precarious success -- to give effective voice and force to that conservatism '' .
I will assume that we are all aware of the continuing struggle , with its limited and precarious success , toward conservatism .
It has moved on various levels , it has been clamorous and confused .
Obviously there has been no agreement on what American conservatism is , or rather , what it should be .
For it was neglected , not to say nascent , when the struggle began .
I saw a piece the other day assailing William Buckley , author of Man And God at Yale and publisher of The National Review , as no conservative at all , but an old liberal .
I would agree with this view .
But I'm not here to define conservatism .
What I am here to do is to report on the gyrations of the struggle -- a struggle that amounts to self-redefinition -- to see if we can predict its future course .
One of the obvious conclusions we can make on the basis of the last election , I suppose , is that we , the majority , were dissatisfied with Eisenhower conservatism .
Though , to be sure , we gave Kennedy no very positive approval in the margin of his preferment .
This is , however , symptomatic of our national malaise .
But before I try to diagnose it , I would offer other evidence .
I will mention two volumes of specific comment on this malaise that appeared last year .
The earlier of them was an unofficial enterprise , sponsored by Life magazine , under the title of The National Purpose .
The contributors to this testament were all well-known : a former Democratic candidate for President , a New Deal poet , the magazine's chief editorial writer , two newspaper columnists , head of a national broadcasting company , a popular Protestant evangelist , etc. .
What I want to point out here is that all of them are ex-liberals , or modified liberals , with perhaps one exception .
I suppose we might classify Billy Graham as an old liberal .
And I would further note that they all -- with one exception again -- sang in one key or another the same song .
Its refrain was : `` let us return to the individualistic democracy of our forefathers for our salvation '' .
Adlai Stevenson expressed some reservations about this return .
Others invoked technology and common sense .
Only Walter Lippman envisioned the possibility of our having `` outlived most of what we used to regard as the program of our national purposes '' .
But the most notable thing about the incantation of these ex-liberals was that the one-time shibboleth of socialism was conspicuously absent .
The second specific comment was the report of Eisenhower's Commission on National Goals , titled Goals For Americans .
They , perhaps , gave the pitch of their position in the preface where it was said that Eisenhower requested that the Commission be administered by the American Assembly of Columbia University , because it was non-partisan .
The Commission seems to represent the viewpoint of what I would call the unconscious liberal , but not unconscious enough , to invoke the now taboo symbolism of socialism .
And here again we hear the same refrain mentioned above : `` the paramount goal of the United States set long ago was to guard the rights of the individual , ensure his development , enlarge his opportunity '' .
This group is secularist and their program tends to be technological .
But it is the need to undertake these testaments that I would submit here as symptom of the common man's malaise .
And let me add Murray's new book as another symptom of it , particularly so in view of the attention Time magazine gave it when it came out recently .
Father Murray goes back to the Declaration of Independence , too , though I may add , with considerably more historical perception .
I will reserve discussion of it for a moment , however , to return to President Kennedy .
As symptomatic of the common man's malaise , he is most significant : a liberal and a Catholic , elected by the skin of his teeth .
Does that not suggest to you an uncertain and uneasy , not to say confused , state of the public mind ? ?
What is the common man's complaint ? ?
Let's take a panoramic look back over the course we have come .
Has not that way been lit always by the lamp of liberalism up until the turning back under Eisenhower ? ?
And the basic character of that liberalism has been spiritual rather than economic .
Ralph Gabriel gave it the name of Protestant philosophy of Progress .
But there's a subjective side to that utopian outlook .
Does our society have a runaway , uncontrollable growth of technology which may end our civilization , or a normal , healthy growth ? ?
Here there may be an analogy with cancer : we can detect cancers by their rapidly accelerating growth , determinable only when related to the more normal rate of healthy growth .
Should the accelerating growth of technology then warn us ? ?
Noting such evidence is the first step ; ;
and almost the only `` cure '' is early detection and removal .
One way to determine whether we have so dangerous a technology would be to check the strength of our society's organs to see if their functioning is as healthy as before .
So an objective look at our present procedures may move us to consider seriously this possibly analogous situation .
In any event , whether society may have cancer , or merely a virus infection , the `` disease '' , we shall find , is political , economical , social , and even medical .
Have not our physical abilities already deteriorated because of the more sedentary lives we are now living ? ?
Hence the prime issue , as I see it , is whether a democratic or free society can master technology for the benefit of mankind , or whether technology will rule and develop its own society compatible with its own needs as a force of nature .
We are already committed to establishing man's supremacy over nature and everywhere on earth , not merely in the limited social-political-economical context we are fond of today .
Otherwise , we go on endlessly trying to draw the line , color and other , as to which kind of man we wish to see dominate .
We have proved so able to solve technological problems that to contend we cannot realize a universal goal in the immediate future is to be extremely shortsighted , if nothing else .
We must believe we have the ability to affect our own destinies : otherwise why try anything ? ?
So in these pages the term `` technology '' is used to include any and all means which could amplify , project , or augment man's control over himself and over other men .
Naturally this includes all communication forms , e.g. languages , or any social , political , economic or religious structures employed for such control .
Properly mindful of all the cultures in existence today throughout the world , we must employ these resources without war or violent revolution .
If we were creating a wholly new society , we could insist that our social , political , economic and philosophic institutions foster rather than hamper man ; ;
best growth .
But we cannot start off with a clean slate .
So we must first analyze our present institutions with respect to the effect of each on man's major needs .
Asked which institution most needs correction , I would say the corporation as it exists in America today .
At first glance this appears strange : of all people , was not America founded by rugged individualists who established a new way of life still inspiring `` undeveloped '' societies abroad ? ?
But hear Harrison E. Salisbury , former Moscow correspondent of The New York Times , and author of `` To Moscow -- And Beyond '' .
In a book review of `` The Soviet Cultural Offensive '' , he says , `` Long before the State Department organized its bureaucracy into an East-West Contacts Staff in order to wage a cultural counter-offensive within Soviet borders , the sharp cutting-edge of American culture had carved its mark across the Russian steppes , as when the enterprising promoters of ' Porgy And Bess ' overrode the State Department to carry the contemporary ' cultural warfare ' behind the enemy lines .
They were not diplomats or jazz musicians , or even organizers of reading-rooms and photo-montage displays , but rugged capitalist entrepreneurs like Henry Ford , Hugh Cooper , Thomas Campbell , the International Harvester Co. , and David W. Griffith .
Their kind created an American culture superior to any in the world , an industrial and technological culture which penetrated Russia as it did almost every corner of the earth without a nickel from the Federal treasury or a single governmental specialist to contrive directives or program a series of consultations of interested agencies .
This favorable image of America in the minds of Russian men and women is still there despite years of energetic anti-American propaganda ''
corporations now outmoded
.
Perhaps the public's present attitude toward business stems from the fact that the `` rugged capitalist entrepreneur '' no more exists in America .
In his stead is a milquetoast version known as `` the corporation '' .
But even if we cannot see the repulsive characteristics in this new image of America , foreigners can ; ;
and our loss of `` prestige '' abroad is the direct result .
No amount of ballyhoo will cover up the sordid facts .
If we want respect from ourselves or others , we will have to earn it .
First , let us realize that whatever good this set-up achieved in earlier times , now the corporation per se cannot take economic leadership .
Businesses must develop as a result of the ideas , energies and ambitions of an individual having purpose and comprehensive ability within one mind .
When we `` forced '' individuals to assume the corporate structure by means of taxes and other legal statutes , we adopted what I would term `` pseudo-capitalism '' and so took a major step toward socialism .
The biggest loss , of course , was the individual's lessened desire and ability to give his services to the growth of his company and our economy .
Socialism , I grant , has a definite place in our society .
But let us not complain of the evils of capitalism by referring to a form that is not truly capitalistic .
Some forms of capitalism do indeed work -- superb organizations , a credit to any society .
But the pseudo-capitalism which dictates our whole economy as well as our politics and social life , will not stand close scrutiny .
Its pretense to operate in the public interest is little more than a sham .
It serves only its own stockholders and poorly at that .
As a creative enterprise , its abilities are primarily in `` swallowing '' creative enterprises developed outside its own organization ( an ability made possible by us , and almost mandatory ) .
As to benefits to employees , it is notorious for its callous disregard except where it depends on them for services .
The corporation in America is in reality our form of socialism , vying in a sense with the other socialistic form that has emerged within governmental bureaucracy .
But while the corporation has all the disadvantages of the socialist form of organization ( so cumbersome it cannot constructively do much of anything not compatible with its need to perpetuate itself and maintain its status quo ) , unluckily it does not have the desirable aspect of socialism , the motivation to operate for the benefit of society as a whole .
So we are faced with a vast network of amorphous entities perpetuating themselves in whatever manner they can , without regard to the needs of society , controlling society and forcing upon it a regime representing only the corporation's needs for survival .
The corporation has a limited , specific place in our society .
Ideally speaking , it should be allowed to operate only where the public has a great stake in the continuity of supply or services , and where the actions of a single proprietor are secondary to the needs of society .
Examples are in public utilities , making military aircraft and accessories , or where the investment and risk for a proprietorship would be too great for a much needed project impossible to achieve by any means other than the corporate form , e.g. constructing major airports or dams .
Thus , if corporations are not to run away with us , they must become quasi-governmental institutions , subject to public control and needs .
In all other areas , private initiative of the `` proprietorship '' type should be urged to produce the desired goods and services .
Proprietorship
Avoiding runaway technology can be done only by assuring a humane society ; ;
and for this human beings must be firmly in control of the economics on which our society rests .
Such genuine human leadership the proprietorship can offer , corporations cannot .
It can project long-range goals for itself .
Corporations react violently to short-range stimuli , e.g. , quarterly and annual dividend reports .
Proprietorships can establish a unity and integrity of control ; ;
corporations , being more amorphous , cannot .
Proprietorships can establish a meaningful identity , representing a human personality , and thus establish sincere relationships with customers and community .
Corporations are apt by nature to be impersonal , inhumane , shortsighted and almost exclusively profit-motivated , a picture they could scarcely afford to present to the public .
The proprietor is able to create a leadership impossible in the corporate structure with its board of directors and stockholders .
Leadership is lacking in our society because it has no legitimate place to develop .
Men continuously at the head of growing enterprises can acquire experiences of the most varied , complicated and trying type so that at maturation they have developed the competence and willingness to accept the personal responsibility so sorely needed now .
Hence government must establish greater controls upon corporations so that their activities promote what is deemed essential to the national interest .
Proprietorships should get the tax advantages now accruing to corporations , e.g. the chance to accumulate capital so vital for growth .
Corporations should pay added taxes , to be used for educational purposes ( not necessarily of the formal type ) .
The right to leave legacies should be substantially reduced and ultimately eliminated .
To perpetuate wealth control led by small groups of individuals who played no role in its creation prevents those with real initiative from coming to the fore , and is basically anti-democratic .
When the proprietor dies , the establishment should become a corporation until it is either acquired by another proprietor or the government decides to drop it .
Strikes should be declared illegal against corporations because disagreements would have to be settled by government representatives acting as controllers of the corporation whose responsibility to the state would now be defined against proprietorship because employees and proprietors must be completely interdependent , as they are each a part of the whole .
Strikes threatening the security of the proprietorship , if internally motivated , prevent a healthy relationship .
Certainly external forces should not be applied arbitrarily out of mere power available to do so .
If we cannot stop warfare in our own economic system , how can we expect to abolish it internationally ? ?
One kind of proprietorship
These proposals would go far toward creating the economic atmosphere favoring growth of the individual , who , in turn , would help us to cope with runaway technology .
Individual human strength is needed to pit against an inhuman condition .
The battle is not easy .
We are tempted to blame others for our problems rather than look them straight in the face and realize they are of our own making and possible of solution only by ourselves with the help of desperately needed , enlightened , competent leaders .
Persons developed in today's corporations cannot hope to serve here -- a judgment based on experiences of my own in business and in activities outside .
In my own company , in effect a partnership , although legally a corporation , I have been able to do many things for my employees which `` normal '' corporations of comparable size and nature would have been unable to do .
Also , I am convinced that if my company were a sole proprietorship instead of a partnership , I would have been even abler to solve long-range problems for myself and my fellow-employees .
Any abilities I may have were achieved in their present shape from experience in sharing in the growth and control of my business , coupled with raising my family .
This combined experience , on a foundation of very average , I assure you , intelligence and background , has helped me do things many well-informed people would bet heavily against .
Perhaps a list of some of the `` practices '' of my company will help here .
The company grew out of efforts by two completely inexperienced men in their late twenties , neither having a formal education applicable to , or experience in , manufacturing or selling our type of articles .
From an initial investment of $1,200 in 1943 , it has grown , with no additional capital investment , to a present value estimated by some as exceeding $10,000,000 ( we don't disclose financial figures to the public ) .
Its growth continues steadily on a par with past growth ; ;
and no limitation is in evidence .
Our pin-curl clips and self-locking nuts achieved dominance in just a few years time , despite substantial , well established competition .
During the last years of Woodrow Wilson's administration , a red scare developed in our country .
Many Americans reacted irrationally to the challenge of Russia and turned to the repression of ideas by force .
Postmaster General Burleson set about to protect the American people against radical propaganda that might be spread through the mails .
Attorney General Palmer made a series of raids that sent more than 4,000 so-called radicals to the jails , in direct violation of their constitutional rights .
Then , not many years later , the Un-American Activities Committee , under the leadership of Martin Dies , pilloried hundreds of decent , patriotic citizens .
Anyone who tried to remedy some of the most glaring defects in our form of democracy was denounced as a traitorous red whose real purpose was the destruction of our government .
This hysteria reached its height under the leadership of Senator Joseph McCarthy .
Demagogues of this sort found communist bogeys lurking behind any new idea that would run counter to stereotyped notions .
New ideas were dangerous and must be repressed , no matter how .
Those who would suppress dangerous thoughts , credit ideas with high potency .
They give strict interpretation to William James' statement that `` Every idea that enters the mind tends to express itself '' .
They seem to believe that a person will act automatically as soon as he contacts something new .
Hence , the only defensible procedure is to repress any and every notion , unless it gives evidence that it is perfectly safe .
Despite this danger , however , we are informed on every hand that ideas , not machines , are our finest tools ; ;
they are priceless even though they cannot be recorded on a ledger page ; ;
they are the most valuable of commodities -- and the most salable , for their demand far exceeds supply .
So all-important are ideas , we are told , that persons successful in business and happy in social life usually fall into two classes : those who invent new ideas of their own , and those who borrow , beg , or steal from others .
Seemingly , with an unrestricted flow of ideas , all will be well , and we are even assured that `` an idea a day will keep the sheriff away '' .
That , however , may also bring the police , if the thinking does not meet with social approval .
Criminals , as well as model citizens , exercise their minds .
Merely having a mental image of some sort is not the all-important consideration .
Of course , there must be clarity : a single distinct impression is more valuable than many fuzzy ones .
But clarity is not enough .
The writer took a class of college students to the state hospital for the mentally ill in St. Joseph , Missouri .
An inmate , a former university professor , expounded to us , logically and clearly , that someone was pilfering his thoughts .
He appealed to us to bring his case to the attention of the authorities that justice might be done .
Despite the clarity of his presentation , his idea was not of Einsteinian calibre .
True , ideas are important , perhaps life's most precious treasures .
But have we not gone overboard in stressing their significance ? ?
Have we not actually developed idea worship ? ?
Ideas we must have , and we seek them everywhere .
We scour literature for them ; ;
here we find stored the wisdom of great minds .
But are all these works worthy of consideration ? ?
Can they stand rigid scrutiny ? ?
Shakespeare's wit and wisdom , his profound insight into human nature , have stood the test of centuries .
But was he infallible in all things ? ?
What of his treatment of the Jew in The Merchant Of Venice ? ?
Shakespeare gives us a vivid picture of Shylock , but probably he never saw a Jew , unless in some of his travels .
The Jews had been banished from England in 1290 and were not permitted to return before 1655 , when Shakespeare had been dead for thirty-nine years .
If any had escaped expulsion by hiding , they certainly would not frequent the market-place .
Shakespeare did not usually invent the incidents in his plays , but borrowed them from old stories , ballads , and plays , wove them together , and then breathed into them his spark of life .
Rather than from a first-hand study of Jewish people , his delineation of Shylock stems from a collection of Italian stories , Il Pecorone , published in 1558 , although written almost two centuries earlier .
He could learn at second hand from books , but could not thus capture the real Jewish spirit .
Harris J. Griston , in Shaking The Dust From Shakespeare ( 216 ) , writes : `` There is not a word spoken by Shylock which one would expect from a real Jew '' .
He took the story of the pound of flesh and had to fasten it on someone .
The Jew was the safest victim .
No Jew was on hand to boycott his financially struggling theater .
It would have been unwise policy , for instance , to apply the pound-of-flesh characterization to the thrifty Scotchman .
Just as now anyone may hurl insults at a citizen of Mars , or even of Tikopia , and no senatorial investigation will result .
Who cares about them ! !
Shakespeare does not tell us that Shylock was an aberrant individual .
He sets him forth as being typical of the group .
He tells of his `` Jewish heart '' -- not a Shylockian heart ; ;
but a Jewish heart .
This would make anyone crafty and cruel , capable of fiendish revenge .
There is no justification for such misrepresentation .
If living Jews were unavailable for study , the Bible was at hand .
Reading the Old Testament would have shown the dramatist that the ideas attributed to Shylock were abhorrent to the Jews .
Are we better off for having Shakespeare's idea of Shylock ? ?
Studying The Merchant Of Venice in high school and college has given many young people their notions about Jews .
Does this help the non-Jew to understand this group ? ?
Thomas De Torquemada , Inquisitor-General of the Spanish Inquisition , put many persons to death .
His name became synonymous with cold-blooded cruelty .
Would we gain by keeping alive his memory and besmirching today's Roman Catholics by saying he had a Catholic heart ? ?
Let his bones and his memory rest in the fifteenth century where they belong ; ;
he is out of place in our times .
Shakespeare's Shylock , too , is of dubious value in the modern world .
Ideas , in and of themselves , are not necessarily the greatest good .
A successful businessman recently prefaced his address to a luncheon group with the statement that all economists should be sent to the hospitals for the mentally deranged where they and their theories might rot together .
Will his words come to be treasured and quoted through the years ? ?
Frequently we are given assurance that automatically all ideas will be sifted and resifted and in the end only the good ones will survive .
But is that not like going to a chemistry laboratory and blindly pouring out liquids and powders from an array of bottles and then , after stirring , expecting a new wonder drug inevitably to result ? ?
What of the efficiency of this natural instrument of free discussion ? ?
Is there some magic in it that assures results ? ?
When Peter B. Kyne ( Pride Of Palomar , 43 ) informed us in 1921 that we had an instinctive dislike for the Japanese , did the heated debates of the Californians settle the truth or falsity of the proposition ? ?
The Leopard's Spots came from the pen of Thomas Dixon in 1902 , and in this he announced an `` unchangeable '' law .
If a child had a single drop of Negro blood , he would revert to the ancestral line which , except as slaves under a superior race , had not made one step of progress in 3,000 years .
That doctrine has been accepted by many , but has it produced good results ? ?
In the same vein , a certain short-story plot has been overworked .
The son and heir of a prominent family marries a girl who has tell-tale shadows on the half-moons of her finger nails .
In time she presents her aristocratic husband with a coal-black child .
Is the world better for having this idea thrust upon it ? ?
Will argument and debate decide its truth or falsity ? ?
For answers to such questions we must turn to the anthropologists , the biologists , the historians , the psychologists , and the sociologists .
Long ago they consigned the notions of Kyne and Dixon to the scrap heap .
False ideas surfeit another sector of our life .
For several generations much fiction has appeared dealing with the steprelationship .
The stepmother , almost without exception , has been presented as a cruel ogress .
Children , conditioned by this mistaken notion , have feared stepmothers , while adults , by their antagonistic attitudes , have made the role of the substitute parents a difficult one .
Debate is not likely to resolve the tensions and make the lot of the stepchild a happier one .
Research , on the other hand , has shown many stepmothers to be eminently successful , some far better than the real mothers .
Helen Deutsch informed us ( The Psychology Of Women , Vol. 2 , , 434 ) that in all cultures `` the term ' stepmother ' automatically evokes deprecatory implications '' , a conclusion accepted by many .
Will mere debate on that proposition , even though it be free and untrammeled , remove the dross and leave a residue of refined gold ? ?
That is questionable , to say the least .
Research into several cultures has proven her position to be a mistaken one .
Most assuredly ideas are invaluable .
But ideas , just for the sake of having them , are not enough .
In the 1930's , cures for the depression literally flooded Washington .
For a time the President received hundreds of them every day , most of them worthless .
Ideas need to be tested , and not merely by argument and debate .
When some question arises in the medical field concerning cancer , for instance , we do not turn to free and open discussion as in a political campaign .
We have recourse to the scientifically-trained specialist in the laboratory .
The merits of the Salk anti-polio vaccine were not established on the forensic platform or in newspaper editorials , but in the laboratory and by tests in the field on thousands of children .
Our presidential campaigns provide much debate and argument .
But is the result new barnsful of tested knowledge on the basis of which we can with confidence solve our domestic and international problems ? ?
Man , we are told , is endowed with reason and is capable of distinguishing good from bad .
But what a super-Herculean task it is to winnow anything of value from the mud-beplastered arguments used so freely , particularly since such common use is made of cliches and stereotypes , in themselves declarations of intellectual bankruptcy .
We are reminded , however , that freedom of thought and discussion , the unfettered exchange of ideas , is basic under our form of government .
Assuredly in our political campaigns there is freedom to think , to examine any and all issues , and to speak without restraint .
No holds are barred .
But have the results been heartening ? ?
May we state with confidence that in such an exhibition a republic will find its greatest security ? ?
We must not forget , to be sure , that free discussion and debate have produced beneficial results .
In truth , we can say that this broke the power of Senator Joseph McCarthy , who was finally exposed in full light to the American people .
If he had been `` liquidated '' in some way , he would have become a martyr , a rallying point for people who shared his ideas .
Debate in the political arena can be productive of good .
But it is a clumsy and wasteful process : it can produce negative results but not much that is positive .
Debate rid us of McCarthy but did not give us much that is positive .
It did something to clear the ground , but it erected no striking new structure ; ;
it did not even provide the architect's plan for anything new .
In the field of the natural sciences , scientifically verified data are quite readily available and any discussion can be shortened with good results .
In the field of the social sciences a considerable fund of tested knowledge has been accumulated that can be used to good advantage .
By no means would we discourage the production of ideas : they provide raw materials with which to work ; ;
they provide stimulations that lead to further production .
We would establish no censorship .
The President's personality would have opened that office to him .
And for the first time a representative of the highest office in the land would have been liable to the charge that he had attempted to make it a successorship by inheritance .
It is testimony to the deep respect in which Mr. Eisenhower was held by members of all parties that the moral considerations raised by his approach to the matter were not explicitly to be broached .
These began to be apparent in a press conference held during the second illness in order that the consulting specialists might clarify the President's condition for the nation .
And if Howard Rutstein felt impelled thereafter to formulate the ethics of the medical profession , his article in the Atlantic Monthly accomplished a good deal more .
It forced us to fix the responsibility for the position in which all medical commentators had been placed .
The discussion of professional ethics inevitably reminded us that in the historical perspective the President's decision will finally clarify itself as a moral , rather than a medical , problem .
Because the responsibility for resolving the issue lay with the President , rather than with his doctors , nothing raises more surely for us the difficulties simple goodness faces in dealing with complex moral problems under political pressure .
For the President had dealt with the matter humbly , in what he conceived as the democratic way .
But the problem is one which gives us the measure of a man , rather than a group of men , whether a group of doctors , a group of party members assembled at a dinner to give their opinion , or the masses of the voters .
Any attempt to reconcile this statement of the central issue in the campaign of 1956 with the nature of the man who could not conceive it as the central issue will at least resolve our confusions about the chaotic and misleading results of the earnestness of both doctors and President in a situation which should never have arisen .
It was a response to the conflict between political pressure and the moral intuition which resulted in attempts at prediction .
In no other situation would a group of doctors , struggling competently to improve the life expectancy of a man beloved by the world , be subjected to such merciless and persistent questioning , and before they were prepared to demonstrate the kind of verbal precision which alone can clarify for mankind the problems it faces .
And though we can look back now and see their errors , we can look back also to the ultimate error .
It recurred in the press conferences : the President's remarks about his running developed a singular tone , one which we find in few statements made by public individuals on such a matter .
The press conference became a stage which betrayed the drift of his private thinking , rather than his convictions .
He commented -- thoughtfully , a reporter told us -- that it was `` not too important for the individual how he ends up '' .
He gave us a simile to explain his admission that even at the worst period of his second illness it never occurred to him there was any renewed question about his running : as in the Battle of the Bulge , he had no fears about the outcome until he read the American newspapers .
Yet the attitude that the fate of the Presidency demands in such a situation is quite distinct from the simple courage that can proceed with battles to be fought , regardless of the consequences .
In this case others should not have had to raise the doubts and fears .
The Presidency demands an incisive awareness of the larger implications of the death of any incumbent .
It is of the utmost importance to the people of America and of the world how their governing President `` ends up '' during the four years of his term .
Only when that term is ended and he is a private citizen again can he be permitted the freedom and the courage to discount the dangers of his death .
Ironically enough , in this instance such personal virtues were a luxury .
At the national and international level , then , what is the highest kind of morality for the private citizen represents an instance of political immorality .
And we had the uneasy sense that the cleavage between the moral and the political progressed amid the events which concern us .
For the tone of the editorials which greeted Mr. Eisenhower's original announcement of his running had been strangely disquieting .
Neither the vibrant enthusiasm which bespeaks a people's intuitive sense of the fitness of things at climactic moments nor the vital argumentation betraying its sense that something significant has transpired was in evidence .
Nothing testifies more clearly to that cleavage than the peculiar editorial page appearing in a July issue of Life Magazine , the issue which also carried the second announcement of the candidacy .
The double editorial on Two Aspects Of `` The U.S. Spirit '' was subtly calculated to suggest a moral sanction for gambles great as well as small , reflecting popular approval of this questionable attitude toward the highest office in the land .
`` The Moral Creed '' and `` The Will To Risk '' live happily together , if we do not examine where the line is to be drawn .
`` I may possibly be a greater risk than is the normal person of my age '' , the President had said on February 29th of the election year , ignoring the fact that no one of his age had ever lived out another term .
`` My doctors assure me that this increased percentage of risk is not great '' .
But by the time the risk was doubled , events had dismissed from his mind both increased percentages and a previously stated intention of considering carefully anything more serious than a bout of influenza .
Only infrequently did the situation color his thinking .
Ironically no president we have had would have regretted more than President Eisenhower the possibility to which his own words , in the press conference held at the beginning of August , testified : that unable as he was himself to say his running was best for the country , unconsciously he had placed his party before his nation .
So it is that we relive his opening statement in the first television address with the dramatic immediacy of the present .
No consideration of risk urges itself upon him now : for this is what the mind does with the ideas on which it has not properly focussed .
Yet with a mind less shallow , if less sharp , than some of the fortune-happy syndicates which back him , he feels what he cannot formulate ; ;
and we watch him amid the overtones which suggest he could never in any conscience urge a risk upon the voters .
Moving as he is into the phase of the campaign which demands conviction of him , he adopts a position that is morally indefensible .
He ascribes to the mercy of God the peace which this personal matter -- the assurance that he can physically sustain the burden of the office longer than any individual in the history of our nation has been able to do -- has brought him .
What is simply an opinion formed in defiance of the laws of human probability , whether or not it is later confirmed , has become by September of the election year `` a firm conviction '' .
As a means of silencing a discussion which ought to have taken place , the statement is an effective one : we sympathize with the universal confusion which gives rise to such convictions .
But it is also the climax to one of the absorbing chapters in our current political history .
In assigning to God the responsibility which he learned could not rest with his doctors , Eisenhower gave evidence of that weakening of the moral intuition which was to characterize his administration in the years to follow .
In any other man this reassurance to the electorate would have caused us a profound moral shock .
About this man we had to think twice .
We knew that it was , as reassurance , the ironic fruit of a deeply moral nature .
But the fact remains that even the unconscious acceptance of himself as a man of destiny divinely protected must be censored in any man who evades the responsibility for his major decisions , and thus for imposing his will on the people .
And in the context of drifting personal utterances we have examined , there was occasional evidence of the origin of all such evasions .
When the possibility that he had not given reconsideration to so weighty a decision seemed to disconcert his questioners , Mr. Eisenhower was known to make his characteristic statement to the press that he was not going to talk about the matter any more .
Thinking had stopped ; ;
it was not to be resumed .
The portrait that had developed , fragmentarily but consistently , was the portrait of a man to whom serious thinking is alien enough that the making of a decision inhibits , when it does not forestall , any ability to review the decision in the light of new evidence .
This does not mean that the decision to run for office should inevitably have been revoked .
Instead it means that the thinking in which decision issues has the power to determine the morality of the decision , as in this instance the pressure for renewed practical or legislative attention to the constitutional problems the decision had uncovered might have done .
Drifting through a third illness , apparently without any provision for the handling of a major national emergency other than a talk with the vice-president , Eisenhower revealed the singularly static quality of his thinking .
Despite three warnings , no sense of moral urgency impelled him to distinguish his situation , and thus his responsibilities , from Wilson's .
By contrast , the energetic reaction of the leader to the full demands his decision imposes upon him strengthens the moral intuition and gives us the measure of the man .
Only by means of an intensive preoccupation with the detailed considerations following from any decision can he ensure attention to the practical details to be dealt with if the implications of immorality in the major decision are effectively to be checked .
In the incessant struggle with recalcitrant political fact he learns to focus the essence of a problem in the significant detail , and to articulate the distinctions which clarify the detail as significant , with what is sometimes astounding rapidity .
Like Lincoln , he can distinguish his relation to God from the constitutional responsibilities a questionable decision exacts of him .
Like Roosevelt , he can distinguish an attitude toward a Russian leader he may share with a host of Americans from the responsibilities diplomatic convention may impose upon him .
He chooses to subordinate one to the other , sometimes reluctantly , accepting criticism for the lesser immoralities facts breed .
The very nature of a choice so grounded in distinction and fact leads to the valid convictions which become force of will in the manifest leader .
The capacity for making the distinctions of which diplomacy is compact , and the facility with language which can render them into validity in the eyes of other men are the leader's means for transforming the moral intuition into moral leadership .
The making of distinctions , like the perception of the great distinctions made , is an inordinately difficult business .
Lincoln's slow progress towards the several marking his achievement is even now unrecognizable as such , and loosely interpreted as the alternation of inconsistency with vision .
But because it is the function of the mind to turn the one into the other by means of the capacities with which words endow it , we do not unwisely examine the type of distinction , in the sphere of politics , on which decisions hang .
Only recently , and perhaps because a television debate can so effectively dramatize President Kennedy's extraordinary mastery of detail , have the abilities on which the capacity for making distinctions depend begun to be clearly discernible at the level of politics .
In his recent evaluation of Kennedy's potentialities for leadership , Walter Lippmann has cited the `` precision '' of his mind , his `` immense command '' of factual detail , and his `` instinct for the crucial point '' as impressive in the extreme ; ;
and it is surely clear that the first of these is the result of the way in which the individual's command of language interacts with the other two .
For this change is not a change from one positive position to another , but a change from order and truth to disorder and negation .
The liberal-conservative division , we might observe in passing , is not of itself directly involved in a private interest conflict nor even in struggle between ruling groups .
Rather it is rooted in a difference of response to the threat of social disintegration .
The division is not between those who wish to preserve what they have and those who want change .
Rather it is a division established by two absolutely different ways of thought with regard to man's life in society .
These ways are absolutely irreconcilable because they offer two different recipes for man's redemption from chaos .
The civilizational crisis , the third type of change raises the question `` what are we to do '' ? ?
On the most primitive level .
For the answer cannot be derived from any socially cohesive element in the disrupting community .
There is no socially existential answer to the question .
For the truth formerly experienced by the community no longer has existential status in the community , nor does any answer elaborated by philosophers or theoriticians .
In this phase of change , no idea has social acceptance and so none has ontological status in the community .
An interregnum ensues in which not men but ideas compete for existence .
If we examine the three types of change from the point of view of their internal structure we find an additional profound difference between the third and the first two , one that accounts for the notable difference between the responses they evoke .
The first two types of change occur within the inward and immanent structure of the society .
The first involves a simple shift of interests in the society .
The second involves something deeper , but its characteristic form focuses on a shift in policy for the community , not in the truth on which the community rests .
Thus in both types attention is focused on the community itself , and its phenomenological life .
The third type , however , wrenches attention from the life of action and interests in the community and focuses it on the ground of being on which the community depends for its existence .
Voegelin has analyzed this experience in the case of the stable , healthy community .
There the community , faced with the need to formulate policy on the level of absolute justice , can find the answer to its problem in the absolute truth which it holds as partially experienced .
This , however , cannot be done by a community whose very experience of truth is confused and incoherent : it has no absolute standard , and consequently cannot distinguish the absolute from the contingent .
It has lost its ground of being and floats in a mist of appearances .
Relativism and equality are its characteristic diseases .
Precisely at the moment when it has lost its vision the mind of the community turns out from itself in a search for the ontological standard whereby it can measure itself .
For paradigmatic history `` breaks '' rather than unfolds precisely when the movement is from order to disorder , and not from one order to a new order .
The liberal-conservative split , to define it further , derives from a basic difference concerning the existential status of standard sought and about the spiritual experience that leads to its identification .
When disruptive change has penetrated to the third level of social order , the process of disruption rapidly reaches a point of no return .
Indeed , it is probable that this point is reached the moment the third level of change begins .
At that point we reach the `` closed '' historical situation : the situation in which man is no longer free to return to a status quo ante .
At that point men become aware of the mystery of history called variously `` fate '' , or `` destiny '' , or `` providence '' , and feel themselves caught helplessly in the writhing of a disrupted society .
The reasons for this experience are rooted in the metaphysical characteristics of such a change .
Of all forms of being , society , or community , has the greatest element of determinability .
Its ontological status is itself most tenuous because apart from individual men , who are its `` matter '' , tradition , the `` form '' of society exists only as a shared perception of truth .
The ontological status of society thus is constituted by the psychological status of society's members .
The content of that psychological status determines , ultimately , the content of civilization .
Those social , civilizational factors not rooted in the human spirit of the group , ultimately cease to exist .
Civilization itself -- tradition -- falls out of existence when the human spirit itself becomes confused .
Civilization is what man has made of himself .
Its massive contours are rooted in the simple need of man , since he is always incomplete , to complete himself .
It is not enough for man to be an ontological esse .
He needs existential completion , he needs , that is , to move in the direction of completion .
And the direction of that movement is determined by his perception of the truth about himself .
He must , consequently , exist as a self-perceived substantive , developing agent , or he does not exist as man .
Thus , it is no mystical intuition , but an analyzable conception to say that man and his tradition can `` fall out of existence '' .
This happens at the moment man loses the perception of moral substance in himself , of a nature that , in Maritain's words , is perceived as a `` locus of intelligible necessities '' .
An existentialist is a man who perceives himself only as `` esse '' , as existence without substance .
Thus human perception and human volition is the immanent cause of all social change and this most truly when the change reaches the civilizational level .
Thus with regard to the loss of tradition , in the change from order to disorder the metaphysics of change works itself out as a disruption of the individual soul , a change in which man continues as an objective ontological existent , but no longer as a man .
Further , change is a form of motion , it occurs as the act of a being in potency insofar as it is in potency and has not yet reached the terminus of the change .
With regard to the change we are examining , the question is , at what point does the change become irreversible ? ?
A number of considerations suggest that this occurs early in the process .
Change involves the displacement of form .
This means that the inception of change itself can begin only when the factors conducive to change have already become more powerful than those anchoring the existent form in being .
If the existent form is to be retained new factors that reinforce it must be introduced into the situation .
In the case of social decay , form is displaced simply by the process of dissolution with no form at the terminus of the process .
Now in the mere fact of the beginning of such displacement we have prima-facie evidence of the ontological weakness of the fading form .
And when we consider the tenuous hold tradition has on existence , any weakening of that hold constitutes a crisis of existence .
The retention of a tradition confronted with such a crisis necessitates the introduction of new spiritual forces into the situation .
However , the crisis occurs precisely as a weakening of spiritual forces .
It would seem , therefore , that in a civilizational crisis man cannot save himself .
The emergence of the crisis itself would seem to constitute a warranty for the victory of disorder .
And it would seem that history is a witness to this truth .
As a further characterization of the liberal conservative split we may observe that it involves differences in the formula for escaping inevitabilities in history .
These differences , in turn , derive from prior differences concerning the friendly or hostile character of change .
Unanalyzed responses
anxiety and deep insecurity are the characteristic responses evoked by the crisis in tradition .
To experience them , it is not necessary for a people to be actively aware of what is happening to it .
The process of erosion need only undermine the tradition and a series of consequences begin unfolding within the individual , while in institutions a quiet but deep transformation of processes occurs .
Within the individual the reaction has been called various names , all , however , pointing to the same basic experience .
Weil identifies it as being `` rootless '' , Guardini as being `` placeless '' , Riesman as being `` lonely '' .
Others call it `` alienation '' , and mean by that no simple economic experience ( as Marx does ) but a deep spiritual sense of dislocation .
Within institutions there is a marked decline of the process of persuasion and the substitution of a force-fear process which masquerades as the earlier one of persuasion .
We note the use of rhetoric as a weapon , the manipulation of the masses by propaganda , the `` mobilization '' of effort and resources .
Within this context of spontaneous and unanalyzed responses to the experience of civilizational crisis , two basic organizations of response are observable : reaction and ideological progressivism .
These responses are explicable in terms of characteristics inherent in the crisis .
Both are predictably destined to fail .
The response of reaction is dominated by a concern for what is vanishing .
Its essence lies in its attempt to recover previous order through the repression of disruptive forces .
To this end political authority is called upon to exercise its negative and coercive powers .
The implicit assumption of this response is that history is reversible .
Seemingly , order is perceived as a kind of subsistent entity now covered by adventitious accretions .
The problem is to remove the accretions and thereby uncover the order that was always there .
Such a response , of course , misses the point that in crisis order is going out of existence .
Moreover its posture of stubborn but simple resistance is doomed to failure because of the metaphysical weakness of the existent form of order , once the activation of change has reached visible proportions .
The most reaction can achieve is stasis , and a stasis that can be maintained only by the expenditure of an effort which ultimately exhausts itself .
Despite the hopelessness of the response , it is explicable in terms of the crisis of tradition itself .
Since a civilizational crisis involves also a crisis in private interests and in the ruling class , reaction is normally found among those who feel themselves to be among the ruling class .
Their great error is to mingle the responses typical of each of the three types of change .
Since civilizational change is the most difficult to perceive and analyze , it seldom is given adequate attention .
And the anxiety it generates is misinterpreted as anxiety over private interest and threatened social status .
The basic truth in the reactionary response is to be found in its realistic assumption of the primacy of the real over the ideational .
But this truth is distorted by its extreme application : the assumption of the separate existence of tradition .
The reactionary misses the point that tradition exists ontologically only in the form of psychological-intellectual relations .
Reactionary theories , for this reason , usually assume some form of organismic theory .
In its defensive formulations , the theory will attack conscious change on the grounds of the independent existence of the community .
In its dynamic form , it visualizes the community as the embodiment of an ontological force -- the race , for instance , which unfolds in history .
In both cases the individual tends to be treated as an instrument of the organic reality .
When the reactionary response is thus bolstered by an intellectual defense , the characteristics of that defense are explicable only in terms of the basic attitudes of unanalyzed reaction .
Reaction is rooted in a perception of tradition as a whole .
It is a total situation that is defended : the `` good old days '' .
There is no selectivity ; ;
even the questionable features of the past are defended .
The point is that the reactionary , for whatever motive , perceives himself to have been part or a partner of something that extended beyond himself , something which , consequently , he was not able to accept or reject on the basis of subjective preference .
The reactionary is confused about the existential status of a decaying tradition , but he does perceive the unity tradition had when it was healthy .
All of which brings up another problem in the use of psychoanalytic insight in a literary work .
Is the Oedipus complex , the clinical syndrome , material for a tragedy ? ?
If we remove ourselves for a moment from our time and our infatuation with mental disease , isn't there something absurd about a hero in a novel who is defeated by his infantile neurosis ? ?
I am not making a clinical judgment here , for such personal tragedies are real and are commonplace in the analyst's consulting room , but literature makes a different claim upon our sympathies than tragedy in life .
A man in a novel who is defeated in his childhood and condemned by unconscious forces within him to tiredly repeat his earliest failure in love , only makes us a little weary of man ; ;
his tragedy seems unworthy and trivial .
Now we can argue that the irresistible fate of Oedipus Rex was nothing more than the irresistible unconscious longings of Oedipus projected outward , but this externalization of unconscious conflict makes all the difference between a story and a clinical case history .
We can also argue that the three brothers Karamazov and Smerdyakov were the external representatives of an internal conflict within one man , Dostoevsky , a conflict having to do with father-murder and the wish to possess the father's woman .
But a novel in which one man Karamazov explored the divisions within his personality would scarcely merit publication in the Psychoanalytic Quarterly .
It is a mistake to look upon the Oedipus of Oedipus Complex as a literary descendant of Oedipus Rex .
Whatever the psychological truth in the Oedipus myth , an Oedipus who is drawn to his fate by irresistible external forces can carry the symbol of humanity and its archaic crime , and the incest that is unknowing renews the mystery of the eternal dream of childhood and absorbs us in the secret .
But a modern Oedipus who is doomed because he cannot oppose his own childhood is only pathetic , and for renouncing the mystery in favor of psychological truth he gives up the claim on our sympathies .
I am suggesting that a case-history approach to the Oedipus complex is a blind alley for a storyteller .
The best gifts of the novelist will be wasted on the reader who is insulated against any surprises the novelist may have in store for him .
Incest is still a durable theme , but if it wants to get written about it will have to find ways to surprise the emotions , and there is no better way to do this than that of concealment and symbolic representation .
And the best way to conceal and disguise the elements of an incest story is not to set out to write an incest story .
Which brings to mind another Lawrence story and some interesting comparisons in the treatment of the Oedipal theme .
`` The Rocking Horse Winner '' is also a story about a boy's love for his mother .
If I now risk some comparisons with Sons And Lovers let it be clear that I am not comparing the two works or judging their merits ; ;
I am only singling out differences in treatment of a theme and the resultant effects .
`` The Rocking Horse Winner '' is a fantasy with extraordinary power to disturb the reader -- but we do not know why .
It is the story of the hopeless love of a little boy for his cold and vain mother .
There are ghostly scenes in which the little boy on his rocking horse rocks madly toward the climax that will magically give him the name of the winning horse .
The child grows rich on his winnings and conspires with his uncle to make secret gifts of his money to his mother .
The story ends in the child's illness and delirium brought on by the feverish compulsion to ride his horse to win for his mother .
The child dies with his mourning mother at his bedside .
I had read the story many times without asking myself why it affected me or caring why it did .
But on one occasion when I encountered a similar fantasy in a little boy who was my patient I began to understand the uncanny effects of this story .
It was , of course , a little boy's fantasy of winning his mother to himself , and replacing the father who could not give her the things she wanted -- a classical oedipal fantasy if you like -- but if it were only this the story would be banal .
Why does the story affect us ? ?
How does the rocking exert its uncanny effect upon the reader ? ?
The rocking is actually felt in the story , a terrible and ominous rhythm that prophesies the tragedy .
The rocking , I realized , is the single element in the story that carries the erotic message , the unspoken and unconscious undercurrent that would mar the innocence of a child's fantasy and disturb the effects of the work if it were made explicit .
The rocking has the ambiguous function of keeping the erotic undercurrent silent and making it present ; ;
it conceals and yet is suggestive ; ;
a perfect symbol .
And if we understand the rocking as an erotic symbol we can also see how well it serves as the symbol of impending tragedy .
For this love of the boy for his mother is a hopeless and forbidden love , doomed by its nature .
We are also struck by the fact that this story of a boy's love for his mother does not offend , while the incestuous love of the man , Paul Morel , sometimes repels .
It's easy to see why .
This love belongs to childhood ; ;
we accord it its place there , and in Lawrence's treatment we are given the innocent fantasy of a child , in fact , the form in which oedipal love is expressed in childhood .
And when the child dies in Lawrence's story in a delirium that is somehow brought on by his mania to win and to make his mother rich , the manifest absurdity of such a disease and such a death does not enter into our thoughts at all .
We have so completely entered the child's fantasy that his illness and his death are the plausible and the necessary conclusion .
I am sure that none of the effects of this story were consciously employed by Lawrence to describe an oedipal fantasy in childhood .
It is most probable that Freud and the Oedipus complex never entered his head in the writing of this story .
He was simply writing a story that wanted to be told , and in the writing a childhood fantasy of his own emerged .
He would not have cared why it emerged , he only wanted to capture a memory to play with it again in his imagination and somehow to fix and hold in the story the disturbing emotions that accompanied the fantasy .
In our own time we have seen that the novelist's debt to psychoanalysis has increased but that the novel itself has not profited much from this marriage .
Ortega's hope that modern psychology might yet bring forth a last flowering of the novel has only been partially fulfilled .
The young writer seems intimidated by psychological knowledge ; ;
he has lost confidence in his own eyes and in the validity of his own psychological insights .
He borrows the insights of psychology to improve his impaired vision but cannot bring to his work the distinctive vision that should be a novelist's own .
He has been seduced by the marvels of the unconscious and has lost interest in studying the surfaces of character .
If many of the characters in contemporary novels appear to be the bloodless relations of characters in a case history it is because the novelist is often forgetful today that those things that we call character manifest themselves in surface behavior , that the ego is still the executive agency of personality , and that all we know of personality must be discerned through the ego .
The novelist who has been badly baptized in psychoanalysis often gives us the impression that since all men must have an Oedipus complex all men must have the same faces .
2 .
I have argued that Oedipus of the Oedipus complex has a doubtful future as a tragic figure in literature .
But a writer who has a taste for irony and who sees incest in all its modern dimensions can let his imagination work on the disturbing joke in the incest myth , the joke that strikes right at the center of man's humanness .
Moral dread is seen as the other face of desire , and here psychoanalysis delivers to the writer a magnificent irony and a moral problem of great complexity .
There is probably some significance in the fact that two of the best incest stories I have encountered in recent years are burlesques of the incest myth .
The ancient types are reassembled in gloom and foreboding to be irresistibly drawn to their destinies , but the myth fails before the modern truth ; ;
the oracle speaks false and the dream speaks true .
In both the farmer's tale in Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man and in Thomas Mann's The Holy Sinner , the incest hero rises above the myth by accepting the wish as motive ; ;
the heroic act is the casting off of pretense .
Thomas Mann wrote The Holy Sinner in 1951 .
It was conceived as a leave-taking , a kind of melancholy gathering-in of the myths of the West , `` bevor die Nacht sinkt , eine lange Nacht vielleicht und ein tiefes Vergessen '' .
He chose a medieval legend of incest , Gregorius Vom Stein , and freely borrowed and parodied other myths of the West , mixing themes , language , peoples and times in a master myth in which the old forms continually renew themselves , as in his previous treatment of Joseph .
But The Holy Sinner is not simply a retelling of old stories for an old man's entertainment .
Mann understood better than most men the incest comedy at the center of the myth and the psychological truth in which dread is shown as the other face as longing was for him just the kind of deep and complicated joke he liked to tell .
And when he retold the legend of Gregorius he interpolated a modern version in which the medieval players speak contemporary thoughts in archaic language ; ;
while they move through the pageantry of the ancient incest myth and cover themselves through not-knowing , they reveal the unconscious motive in seeking each other and in the last scene make an extraordinary confession of guilt in the twentieth-century manner .
Grigorss is the child of an incestuous union between a royal brother and sister , the twins Sibylla and Wiligis .
He is born in secrecy after the death of his father and cast adrift soon after birth .
The infant is discovered by a fisherman who brings him home to rear him .
An ivory tablet in the infant's cask recounts the story of his sinful origins and is preserved for the child by the monks of a monastery in the fishing village .
Grigorss , at seventeen , learns his story and goes forth as a knight to uncover his origins .
His sailing vessel is guided by fate to the shores of his own country at a time when Sibylla's domain is overrun by the armies of one of her rejected suitors .
Grigorss overcomes the suitor in battle , delivers the city from its oppressors and marries Sibylla who had fallen in love with the beautiful knight the moment she saw him .
Sibylla is pregnant with their second child when she finds the ivory tablet concealed by her husband , and the identities of mother and son are revealed .
Grigorss goes off to do penance on a rock for seventeen years .
At the end of this period two pious Christians in Rome receive the revelation which leads them to seek the next Pope on the rock .
Grigorss comes to Rome and becomes a great and beloved Pope .
In the last pages of the book Sibylla comes to Rome to seek an audience with the great Pope and to give her confession .
Mother and son recognize each other and , in Mann's version of this legend , make a remarkable confession of guilt to each other , the confession of unconscious motive and unconscious knowledge of their true identities from the time they had first set eyes on each other .
In recollection he has said : `` Natural or man-made objects kept coming into my head , but I would suppress them sternly '' .
Moreover , he organized the movement of his forms , within his rigorously shaped space , into highly complex equilibriums ; ;
and used gradations of color value as well as sharply contrasting elementary colors .
The worthy Mondrian , seeing these pictures , said in a tone of kindly reproof : `` But you are really an artist of the naturalistic tradition '' ! !
Helion did not realize it at the time , but it was true .
His `` monumental '' abstraction , made up of smooth , metallic `` non-objects '' acting upon each other with great tension , won Helion much acclaim during the 'thirties .
The play of novel lighting effects also entered into these compositions , whose controlled power and varied activity made them well worth meditating .
As Helion's work showed more and more nostalgia for the world of man and nature , the pure abstractionists expressed some disapproval ; ;
but Leger , Arp , Lipchitz and Alexander Calder , at the time , gave him their blessing .
His canvases nowadays bore titles frankly declaring them to be `` Figures In Space '' , or `` Blue Figure '' , or `` Pink Figure '' ; ;
and they had ( vaguely ) heads and feet .
Exhibited in shows in London in 1935 , and in New York the following year , the new , more elaborated abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional dramas of great intellectual coherence .
At this period the thirty-year old Helion was ranked `` as one of the mature leaders of the modern movement '' , according to Herbert Read , `` and in the direct line of descent from Cezanne , Seurat , Gris and Leger '' .
In America , Meyer Schapiro observed that , unlike the Mondrian school , Helion `` sought a return path to the fullness of nature within the framework of abstract art '' .
It is notable that at this time he was writing with admiration of Cimabue's and Poussin's way of filling space .
Abstract art was still the right path for him ; ;
but , he held , instead of continuing as an `` art of reduction '' , it must grow , must make a place for the contributions of the Raphaels and Poussins as well as for those of the early cubists and Mondrian .
Later Helion wrote of this phase : `` For years I built for myself a subtle instrument of relationships -- colors and forms without a name .
I played on it my secret songs , unexplained , passionate and peaceful '' .
But his own work was evolving further .
The extreme limitations he sensed in all current abstract art made that seem to him increasingly arid and cold .
He was engaged in constant experiments that searched for new directions .
Where would it all lead ? ?
He himself did not know , as he said in 1935 .
But he was `` afraid of the future -- he would in fact welcome a way back to social integration , a functional art of some kind '' .
During the 1920's the Abstractionists , the German Bauhaus group of industrial designers , and the new architects all had the dream of some well ordered utopia , or welfare state , in which their neat and logical constructions might find their proper place .
But whereas the postwar American abstractionists seem to Helion to be determined to `` escape '' from the real world , or simply to rebel against it , the ordered abstractions which he and his associates of the 1930's were painting embodied the hope of `` improving '' things .
`` We were possessed by visions of a new civilization to come , very pure and elevated '' , he has said , `` in fact some ideal form of socialism such as we had dreamed of since the war of 1914-1918 '' .
Instead of this the 1930's witnessed a tragic economic depression , the rise of Fascist dictators in Europe , the wasting Civil War in Spain .
Very much the political man , Helion felt himself deeply affected by the increasingly pessimistic atmosphere of France and all Europe , whose foundations seemed to him more and more shaky .
In 1936 he decided to migrate to America .
The Rooseveltian America was a haven of liberalism and progress and seemed to him to constitute the last best hope for civilization .
Helion also hoped that America's mastery of technology and industrial efficiency would be accompanied by the production of new and beautiful art works .
`` I arrived in the United States with the idea of establishing myself there more or less permanently and finding inspiration for new compositions '' .
In New York he was well received by what was then only a small brave band of non-figurative artists , including Alexander Calder , George K. L. Morris , De Kooning , Holty and a few others .
After a year in a studio on Sheridan Square , having married an American girl who was a native of Virginia , Helion moved to a village in the Blue Ridge mountains , where he produced some of the most imposing of his abstract canvases .
The darkening world scene , at the time of the Munich Pact , continued to trouble his mind even in his remote Virginia studio .
`` Fear possessed me , and the certainty of war '' , he has related .
`` I truly smelled blood , death , heaps of corpses everywhere '' .
In haste he labored to finish some last abstract paintings : a three-panel frieze , with a flying figure and a fallen figure ; ;
a `` Double-Figure '' , which went to the Chicago Art Institute , and is considered by him the most successful of his abstracts ; ;
and in early 1939 , a `` Fallen Figure '' of very ominous character , which concluded his abstract phase .
`` I knew I was carrying on with abstraction to its very end -- for me '' , he said of the two years' output in Virginia .
With those paintings of big constructions crashing down , he felt he could stop .
They were , in effect his last testament to non-objective art .
He had taken out first papers for American citizenship ; ;
but after war came to Europe , he decided to return to France , arriving there in January , 1940 .
`` I hated the war '' , he said , `` but thought I ought to go because I was , perhaps , one of those who hadn't done enough to prevent it '' .
In June , 1940 , Sergeant Helion , with a company of reserve troops waiting to go into battle , was sketching the hills south of the Loire River , when the war suddenly rolled in upon him .
Its first apparition was a long , gloomy column of refugees riding in farm wagons , or pushing prams .
His company then carried out a confused retreating movement until it was surrounded by the Germans , a few days before France capitulated .
After a sort of death march during four days without food , Helion and his comrades were shipped by cattle-car to a labor camp at an estate farm in East Germany .
A year later they were removed to a Stalag in the harbor of Stettin .
At the time of his capture Helion had on his person a sketchbook he had bought at Woolworth's in New York .
When he was stripped , deloused and numbered by his guards , his much-thumbed sketchbook was seized and thrown on a pile of prisoners' goods to be confiscated .
`` It was then I knew that they were making war against Man , the individual within ! !
-- who questioned things when given orders '' .
At Stettin the university-educated artist , who had studied German , was chosen to serve as interpreter and clerk in the office of the Stalag commander .
In secret he also acted as a member of the prisoners' Central Committee , which plotted sabotage , planned a few escapes , and maintained a hidden control over the wretched French slave-laborers .
In the Stalag , Helion came to know and love his comrades , most of them plain folk , who , in their extremity , showed true courage and ran great risks to help each other .
How much they esteemed him is shown by the fact that their underground committee selected him as one of the few who would be helped to escape .
In the prison camp's Black Market civilian clothes were quietly bought and forged papers were devised for him ; ;
during long weeks the plan for his flight was rehearsed .
Every morning contingents of prisoners would be sent out to labor in nearby factories .
One evening , while a volley-ball game was being played in the yard among the prisoners remaining there , a simulated melee was staged -- just as the gates were opened to admit other prisoners returning from work .
As Helion wrote afterward : ``
Their sentry followed .
Four hands were stretched toward me by my comrades behind me .
Marquet held my briefcase ; ;
Finot held a wallet with my money and papers ; ;
Moineau and David held nothing but their fingers .
They felt rough and kind and warm .
At this moment the volley-ball hit the ground .
Duclos ran toward Desprez with fists raised .
The guards all rushed up to intervene ''
Shedding his prison cloak , Helion shot through the gates , now clad in civilian garments and with the passport of a Flemish worker .
Riding trains , hitching hikes on trucks across Germany , slipping through guarded frontiers with the help of secret guides , he eventually reached Vichy France , and , by the winter of 1943 , was back in Virginia .
He wrote : ``
To escape from a prison camp required a very special state of mind ; ;
not only loathing of captivity , but a faith , a hope that is even stronger .
I left behind me brave men , whom captivity had robbed of all hope .
They too loved their families , longed for their villages : yet lacked the faith that drove one to dare the fearful chance of escape '' .
It was a time of revelations for him .
Even the most rational of men , under great stress , may be transported by a new faith and behave like mystics .
Helion knew that he owed his freedom as much to the self-sacrifice of his fellow-men in Arbeitskommando 13 , , Stettin , as to his own fierce will and love of life .
After that , he declared , `` to return to freedom was to fall to one's knees before the real world and adore it '' .
In prison he had been able to sketch nothing but figures from life , his guards , his companions in misery .
Now all his desires centered on `` rediscovering and singing of the prosaic and yet beautiful world of men and objects so long barred from me by a barbed wire fence '' .
And , he added : `` During the many months in prison camp , all abstract images vanished from my mind '' .
Before leaving for America , he happened to see his old friend Jean Arp and confided to him his new resolutions .
Arp protested : `` But it is impossible ! !
Everything in the way of representation has already been done by the old masters '' .
Helion , however , clung to the belief that `` in escaping from the Stalag I had also escaped from Abstraction '' .
While convalescing in his Virginia home he wrote a book recording his prison experiences and escape , entitled : They Shall Not Have Me Published originally in ( Helion's ) English by Dutton & Co. of New York , in 1943 , the book was received by the press as a work of astonishing literary power and one of the most realistic accounts of World War 2 , from the French side .
It was very widely read , too ; ;
and the author , who seemed the embodiment of France's rising spirit of resistance to her conquerors , was much complimented for his daring military action .
But when he showed his new figurative pictures to his artist friends of the abstract camp , they paid him no compliments and drew long faces .
Between 1944 and 1947 Helion had a series of one-man shows -- at the Paul Rosenberg Gallery in New York and in Paris -- of his new realistic pictures .
They reincarnated the figures of human beings banished from his canvases since the 1920's .
These new pictures focussed on the familiar and commonplace objects that he had heard the men in his prison camp talking about as the things they missed most , hence associated with the sense of lost freedom : the cafe at the corner , the newspaper kiosk , the girls in doorways and windows along the street , the golden-crusted French bread they lacked , the cigarettes denied them .
One of the pictures was of a man with hat drawn over his face ceremoniously lighting a cigarette ; ;
others were of men doffing their hats to each other , carrying umbrellas with pomp , reading newspapers , or simply showing loaves of bread spread out .
Important as was Mr. O'Donnell's essay , his thesis is so restricting as to deny Faulkner the stature which he obviously has .
He and also Mr. Cowley and Mr. Warren have fallen to the temptation which besets many of us to read into our authors -- Nathaniel Hawthorne , for example , and Herman Melville -- protests against modernism , material progress , and science which are genuine protests of our own but may not have been theirs .
Faulkner's total works today , and in fact those of his works which existed in 1946 when Mr. Cowley made his comment , or in 1939 , when Mr. O'Donnell wrote his essay , reveal no such simple attitude toward the South .
If he is a traditionalist , he is an eclectic traditionalist .
If he condemns the recent or the present , he condemns the past with no less force .
If he sees the heroic in a Sartoris or a Sutpen , he sees also -- and he shows -- the blind and the mean , and he sees the Compson family disintegrating from within .
If the barn-burner's family produces a Flem Snopes , who personifies commercialism and materialism in hyperbolic crassness , the Compson family produces a Jason Compson 4 .
Faulkner is a most untraditional traditionalist .
Others writing on Faulkner have found the phrase `` traditional moralist '' either inadequate or misleading .
Among them are Frederick J. Hoffman , William Van O'Connor , and Mrs. Olga Vickery .
They have indicated the direction but they have not been explicit enough , I believe , in pointing out Faulkner's independence , his questioning if not indeed challenging the Southern tradition .
Faulkner's is not the mind of the apologist which Mr. O'Donnell implies that it is .
He is not one to remain more comfortably and unquestioningly within a body of social , cultural , or literary traditions than he was within the traditions -- or possibly the regulations -- governing his tenure in the post office at Oxford , Mississippi , thirty-five years ago .
That is not to deny that he has been aware of traditions , of course , that he is steeped in them , in fact , or that he has dealt with them , in his books .
It is to say rather , I believe , that he has brought to bear on the history , the traditions , and the lore of his region a critical , skeptical mind -- the same mind which has made of him an inveterate experimenter in literary form and technique .
He has employed from his section rich immediate materials which in a loose sense can be termed Southern .
The fact that he has cast over those materials the light of a skeptical mind does not make him any the less Southern , I rather think , for the South has been no more solid than other regions except in the political and related areas where patronage and force and intimidation and fear may produce a surface uniformity .
Some of us might be inclined to argue , in fact , that an independence of mind and action and an intolerance of regimentation , either mental or physical , are particularly Southern traits .
There is no necessity , I suppose , to assert that Mr. Faulkner is Southern .
It would not be easy to discover a more thoroughly Southern pedigree than that of his family .
And , after all , he has lived comfortably at both Oxford , Mississippi , and Charlottesville , Virginia .
The young William Faulkner in New Orleans in the 1920's impressed the novelist Hamilton Basso as obviously conscious of being a Southerner , and there is no evidence that since then he has ever considered himself any less so .
Besides showing no inclination , apparently , to absent himself from his native region even for short periods , and in addition writing a shelf of books set in the region , he has handled in those books an astonishingly complete list of matters which have been important in the South during the past hundred years .
It is more difficult with Faulkner than with most authors to say what is the extent and what is the source of his knowledge .
His own testimony is that he has read very little in the history of the South , implying that what he knows of that history has come to him orally and that he knows the world around him primarily from his own unassisted observation .
His denials of extensive reading notwithstanding , it is no doubt safe to assume that he has spent time schooling himself in Southern history and that he has gained some acquaintance with the chief literary authors who have lived in the South or have written about the South .
To believe otherwise would be unrealistic .
But in looking at Faulkner against his background in Mississippi and the South , it is important not to lose the broader perspective .
His earliest work reflected heavy influences from English and continental writers .
Evidence is plentiful that early and later also he has been indebted to the Gothic romancers , who deal in extravagant horror , to the symbolists writing at the end of the preceding century , and in particular to the stream-of-consciousness novelists , Henry James and James Joyce among them .
His repeated experimentation with the techniques of fiction testifies to an independence of mind and an originality of approach , but it also shows him touching at many points the stream of literary development back of him .
My intention , therefore , is not to say that Faulkner's awareness has been confined within the borders of the South , but rather that he has looked at his world as a Southerner and that presumably his outlook is Southern .
The ingredients of Faulkner's novels and stories are by no means new with him , and most of the problems he takes up have had the attention of authors before him .
A useful comment on his relation to his region may be made , I think , by noting briefly how in handling Southern materials and Southern problems he has deviated from the pattern set by other Southern authors while remaining faithful to the essential character of the region .
The planter aristocracy has appeared in literature at least since John Pendleton Kennedy published Swallow-Barn in 1832 and in his genial portrait of Frank Meriwether presiding over his plantation dominion initiated the most persistent tradition of Southern literature .
The thoroughgoing idealization of the planter society did not come , however , until after the Civil War when Southern writers were eager to defend a way of life which had been destroyed .
As they looked with nostalgia to a society which had been swept away , they were probably no more than half-conscious that they painted in colors which had never existed .
Their books found no less willing readers outside than inside the South , even while memories of the war were still sharp .
The tradition reached its apex , perhaps , in the works of Thomas Nelson Page toward the end of the century , and reappeared undiminished as late as 1934 in the best-selling novel So Red The Rose , by Stark Young .
Although Faulkner was the heir in his own family to this tradition , he did not have Stark Young's inclination to romanticize and sentimentalize the planter society .
The myth of the Southern plantation has had only a tangential relation with actuality , as Francis Pendleton Gaines showed forty years ago , and I suspect it has had a far narrower acceptance as something real than has generally been supposed .
Faulkner has found it useful , but he has employed it with his habitual independence of mind and skeptical outlook .
Without saying or seeming to say that in portraying the Sartoris and the Compson families Faulkner's chief concern is social criticism , we can say nevertheless that through those families he dramatizes his comment on the planter dynasties as they have existed since the decades before the Civil War .
It may be that in this comment he has broken from the conventional pattern more violently than in any other regard , for the treatment in his books is far removed from even the genial irony of Ellen Glasgow , who was the only important novelist before him to challenge the conventional picture of planter society .
Faulkner's low-class characters had but few counterparts in earlier Southern novels dealing with plantation life .
They have an ancestry extending back , however , at least to 1728 , when William Byrd described the Lubberlanders he encountered in the back country of Virginia and North Carolina .
The chief literary antecedents of the Snopes clan appeared in the realistic , humorous writing which originated in the South and the Southwest in the three decades before the Civil War .
These narratives of coarse action and crude language appeared first in local newspapers , as a rule , and later found their way between book covers , though rarely into the planters' libraries beside the morocco-bound volumes of Horace , Mr. Addison , Mr. Pope , and Sir Walter Scott .
There is evidence to suggest , in fact , that many authors of the humorous sketches were prompted to write them -- or to make them as indelicate as they are -- by way of protesting against the artificial refinements which had come to dominate the polite letters of the South .
William Gilmore Simms , sturdy realist that he was , pleaded for a natural robustness such as he found in his favorites the great Elizabethans , to vivify the pale writings being produced around him .
Simms admired the raucous tales emanating from the backwoods , but he had himself social affiliations which would not allow him to approve them fully .
Augustus Baldwin Longstreet , a preacher and a college and university president in four Southern states , published the earliest of these backwoods sketches and in the character Ransy Sniffle , in the accounts of sharp horse-trading and eye-gouging physical combat , and in the shockingly unliterary speech of his characters , he set an example followed by many after him .
Others who wrote of low characters and low life included Thomas Bangs Thorpe , creator of the Big Bear Of Arkansas and Tom Owen , the Bee-Hunter ; ;
Johnson Jones Hooper , whose character Simon Suggs bears a close kinship to Flem Snopes in both his willingness to take cruel advantage of all and sundry and the sharpness with which he habitually carried out his will ; ;
and George Washington Harris , whose Tennessee hillbilly character Sut Lovingood perpetrated more unmalicious mischief and more unintended pain than any other character in literature .
It would be profitable , I believe , to read these realistic humorists alongside Faulkner's works , the thought being not that he necessarily read them and owed anything to them directly , but rather that they dealt a hundred years ago with a class of people and a type of life which have continued down to our time , to Faulkner's time .
Such a comparison reminds us that in employing low characters in his works Faulkner is recording actuality in the South and moreover is following a long-established literary precedent .
Such characters , with their low existence and often low morality , produce humorous effects in his novels and tales , as they did in the writing of Longstreet and Hooper and Harris , but it need not be added that he gives them far subtler and more intricate functions than they had in the earlier writers ; ;
nor is there need to add that among them are some of the most highly individualized and most successful of his characters .
One of the early humorists already mentioned , Thomas Bangs Thorpe , can be used to illustrate another point where Faulkner touches authentic Southern materials and also earlier literary treatment of those materials .
Thorpe came to Louisiana from the East as a young man prepared to find in the new country the setting of romantic adventure and idealized beauty .
But Thorpe saw also the hardships of pioneer existence , the cultural poverty of the frontier settlements , and the slack morality which abounded in the new regions .
As a consequence of the tensions thus produced in his thoughts and feelings , he wrote on the one hand sketches of idealized hunting trips and on the other an anecdote of the village of Hardscrabble , Arkansas , where no one had ever seen a piano ; ;
and he wrote also the masterpiece of frontier humor , `` The Big Bear Of Arkansas '' , in which earthy realism is placed alongside the exaggeration of the backwoods tall-tale and the awe with which man contemplates the grandeur and the mysteries of nature .
Some years ago Julian Huxley proposed to an audience made up of members of the British Association for the Advancement of Science that `` man's supernormal or extra-sensory faculties are ( now ) in the same case as were his mathematical faculties during the ice age '' .
As a Humanist , Dr. Huxley interests himself in the possibilities of human development , and one thing we can say about this suggestion , which comes from a leading zoologist , is that , so far as he is concerned , the scientific outlook places no rigid limitation upon the idea of future human evolution .
This text from Dr. Huxley is sometimes used by enthusiasts to indicate that they have the permission of the scientists to press the case for a wonderful unfoldment of psychic powers in human beings .
There may be a case of this sort , but it is not one we wish to argue , here .
Even if people do , in a not far distant future , begin to read one another's minds , there will still be the question of whether what you find in another man's mind is especially worth reading -- worth more , that is , than what you can read in good books .
Even if men eventually find themselves able to look through walls and around corners , one may question whether this will help them to live better lives .
There would be side-conclusions to be drawn , of course ; ;
such capacities are impressive evidence pointing to a conception of the human being which does not appear in the accounts of biologists and organic evolutionists ; ;
but the basic puzzles of existence would still be puzzling , and we should still have to work out the sort of problems we plan to discuss in this article .
All we want from Dr. Huxley's statement is the feeling that this is an open world , in the view of the best scientific opinion , with practically no directional commitments as to what may happen next , and no important confinements with respect to what may be possible .
It seems quite obvious that all the really difficult tasks of human beings arise from the fact that man is not one , but many .
Each man , that is , is both one and many .
He is a dreamer of the good society with a plan to put into effect , and he is an individual craftsman with something to make for himself and the people of his time .
He is a parent with a child to nurture , here and now , and he is an educator who worries about the children half way round the world .
He is a utopian with a stake in tomorrow and he is a vulnerable human made captive by the circumstances of today .
He can sacrifice himself for tomorrow and he can sacrifice tomorrow for himself .
He is a Craig's wife who agonizes about tobacco ash on the living room rug and he is a forgetful genius who goes boating with the town baker when dignitaries from the local university have come to call .
He is the stern guardian of the status quo who has raised the utilitarian structures of the age , and he is the revolutionary poet with a gun in his hand who writes a tragic apologetic to posterity for the men he has killed .
What will be the final symmetry of the good society ? ?
For what do the utopians labor ? ?
Here , on a desk , is a stack of pamphlets representing the efforts of some of the best men of the day to penetrate these questions .
The pamphlets are about law , the corporation , forms of government , the idea of freedom , the defense of liberty , the various lethargies which overtake our major institutions , the gap between traditional social ideals and the working mechanisms that have been set in motion for their realization .
The thing that is notable in all these discussions is the lack of ideological ardor .
There is another kind of ardor , a quiet , sure devotion to the fundamental decencies of human life , but no angry utopian contentions .
Actually , you could wish for some passion , now and then , but when you look around the world and see the little volcanos of current history which partisan social passions have wrought , you are glad that in these pamphlets there is at least some civilized calm .
You could also say that in these pamphlets is a relieving quality of maturity .
There is essential pleasantness in reading the writing of men who are not angry , who can contend without quarreling .
This is the good kind of sophistication , and with all our problems and crises this kind of sophistication has flowered in the United States during recent years .
A characteristic expression of such concern and inquiry is found in Joseph P. Lyford's Introduction To The Agreeable Autocracies , a recent paperback study of the institutions of modern democratic society .
Mr. Lyford gives voice to a temper that represents , we think , an achieved plateau of reflective thinking .
After casting about for a way of describing this spirit , we decided that it would be better to use Mr. Lyford's introduction as an illustration .
He begins : ``
At one time it seemed as if the Soviet Union had done us a favor by providing a striking example of how not to behave towards other peoples and other nations .
As things turned out , however , we have not profited greatly from the lesson : instead of persistently following a national program of our own we have often been satisfied to be against whatever Soviet policy seemed to be at the moment .
Such activity may or may not have irritated the Kremlin , but it has frequently condemned America to an unnatural defensiveness that has undermined our effort to give leadership to the free world .
The defensiveness has been exaggerated by another bad habit , our tendency to rate the `` goodness '' or `` badness '' of other nations by the extent to which they applaud the slogans we circulate about ourselves .
Since the slogans have little application to reality and are sanctimonious to boot , the applause is faint even in areas of the world where we should expect to find the greatest affection for free government .
Shocked at the response to our proclamations , we grow more defensive , and worse , we lose our sense of humor and proportion .
Mr. Nehru is subjected to stern lectures on neutralism by our Department of State , and an American President observes sourly that Sweden would be a little less neurotic if it were a little more capitalistic '' .
One thing you can say about Mr. Lyford is that he does not suffer from any insecurity as an American .
Those who are insecure fear to be candid in self-examination .
Only the strong look squarely at weakness .
The maturity in this point of view lies in its recognition that no basic problem is ever solved without being clearly understood .
Mr. Lyford continues : ``
Even if the self portrait we distribute for popular consumption were accurate it would be dangerous to present it as a picture of the ideal society .
We would be ignoring the special circumstances of other countries .
The picture is the more treacherous when it misrepresents the facts of American life .
The discrepancy between what we commonly profess and what we practice or tolerate is great , and it does not escape the notice of others .
If our sincerity is granted , and it is granted , the discrepancy can only be explained by the fact that we have come to believe hearsay and legend about ourselves in preference to an understanding gained by earnest self-examination .
What is more , the legends have become so sacrosanct that the very habit of self-examination or self-criticism smells of low treason , and men who practice it are defeatists and unpatriotic scoundrels .
Although we continue to pay our conversational devotions to `` free private enterprise '' , `` individual initiative '' , `` the democratic way '' , `` government of the people '' , `` competition of the marketplace '' , etc. , we live rather comfortably in a society in which economic competition is diminishing in large areas , bureaucracy is corroding representative government , technology is weakening the citizen's confidence in his own power to make decisions , and the threat of war is driving him economically and physically into the ground '' .
The interesting thing about Mr. Lyford's approach , and the approach of the contributors to The Agreeable Autocracies ( Oceana Publications , 1961 ) to the situation of American civilization , is that it is concerned with comprehending the psychological relationships which are having a decisive effect on American life .
In an ideological argument , the participants tend to thump the table .
They are determined to prove something .
The new spirit , so well illustrated by Mr. Lyford's work , is wholly free of this anxiety .
The problem is rather to find out what is actually happening , and this is especially difficult for the reason that `` we are busily being defended from a knowledge of the present , sometimes by the very agencies -- our educational system , our mass media , our statesmen -- on which we have had to rely most heavily for understanding of ourselves '' .
The Introduction continues : ``
We experience a vague uneasiness about events , a suspicion that our political and economic institutions , like the genie in the bottle , have escaped confinement and that we have lost the power to recall them .
We feel uncomfortable at being bossed by a corporation or a union or a television set , but until we have some knowledge about these phenomena and what they are doing to us , we can hardly learn to control them .
It does not appear that we will be delivered from our situation by articles on The National Purpose .
The Agreeable Autocracies is an attempt to explore some of the institutions which both reflect and determine the character of the free society today .
The men who speculate on these institutions have , for the most part , come to at least one common conclusion : that many of the great enterprises and associations around which our democracy is formed are in themselves autocratic in nature , and possessed of power which can be used to frustrate the citizen who is trying to assert his individuality in the modern world '' .
These institutions which Mr. Lyford names `` agreeable autocracies '' -- where did they come from ? ?
Of one thing we can be sure : they were not sketched out by the revolutionary theorists of the eighteenth century who formulated the political principles and originally shaped the political institutions of what we term the `` free society '' .
No doubt there are historians who can explain to a great extent what happened to the plans and projects of the eighteenth century .
Going back over this ground and analyzing the composition of forces which have created the present scene is one of the tasks undertaken by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions , in Santa Barbara .
But however we come , finally , to explain and account for the present , the truth we are trying to expose , right now , is that the makers of constitutions and the designers of institutions find it difficult if not impossible to anticipate the behavior of the host of all their enterprises .
The host is the flowing life of the human race .
This life has its own currents and rhythms , its own multiple cycles and adaptations .
On occasion it produces extraordinary novelties .
Should Rousseau have been able to leave room in his social theory for the advent of television , atomic energy , and IBM machines ? ?
How would Thomas Jefferson feel after reading Factories In The Field ? ?
They tell us , sir , that we are free , because we have in one hand a ballot , and in the other a stock certificate .
With these we shape our destiny and own private property , and that , sir , makes ours the best of all possible societies .
The reality of the situation , however , is described by Mr. Lyford : ``
Many of us may even be secretly relieved at having a plausible excuse to delegate ancient civic responsibilities to a new bureaucracy of experts .
Thus the member of an industrial union comes to regard his officers as business agents who may proceed without interference or recall ; ;
the stockholder delivers his proxy ; ;
and the citizen narrows his political participation to the mere act of voting -- if he votes at all '' .
Copernicus did not question it , Ptolemy could not .
Given the conceptual context within which ancient thought thrived , how could anyone have questioned this principle ? ?
The reasons for this are partly observational , partly philosophical , and reinforced by other aesthetic and cultural factors .
First , the observational reasons .
The obvious natural fact to ancient thinkers was the diurnal rotation of the heavens .
Not only did constellations like Draco , Cepheus , and Cassiopeia spin circles around the pole , but stars which were not circumpolar rose and set at the same place on the horizon each night .
Nor did a constellation's stars vary in brightness during the course of their nocturnal flights .
The conclusion -- the distances of the constellations did not vary and their paths were circular .
Moreover , the sun's path over earth described a segment of a great circle ; ;
this was clear from the contour of the shadow traced by a gnomon before and after noon .
As early as the 6th century B.C. the earth was seen to be spherical .
Ships disappear hull-first over the horizon ; ;
approaching shore their masts appeared first .
Earth , being at the center of the universe , would have the same shape as the latter ; ;
so , e.g. did Aristotle argue , although this may not be an observational reason in favor of circularity .
The discoid shapes of sun and moon were also felt to indicate the shape of celestial things .
In light of all this , one would require special reasons for saying that the paths of the heavenly bodies were other than circular .
Why , for example , should the ancients have supposed the diurnal rotation of the heavens to be elliptical ? ?
Or oviform ? ?
Or angular ? ?
There were no reasons for such suppositions then .
This , conjoined with the considerations above , made the circular motions of heavenly bodies appear an almost directly observed fact .
Additional philosophical considerations , advanced notably by Aristotle , supported further the circularity principle .
By distinguishing superlunary ( celestial ) and sublunary ( terrestrial ) existence , and reinforcing this with the four-element physics of Empedocles , Aristotle came to speak of the stars as perfect bodies , which moved in only a perfect way , viz. in a perfect circle .
Now what is perfect motion ? ?
It must , apparently , be motion without termini .
Because motion which begins and ends at discrete places would ( e.g. for Aristotle ) be incomplete .
Circular motion , however , since it is eternal and perfectly continuous , lacks termini .
It is never motion towards something .
Only imcomplete , imperfect things move towards what they lack .
Perfect , complete entities , if they move at all , do not move towards what they lack .
They move only in accordance with what is in their natures .
Thus , circular motion is itself one of the essential characteristics of completely perfect celestial existence .
To return now to the four-element physics , a mixture of muddy , frothy water will , when standing in a jar , separate out with earth at the bottom , water on top , and the air on top of that .
A candle alight in the air directs its flame and smoke upwards .
This gives a clue to the cosmical order of elements .
Thus earth has fallen to the center of the universe .
It is covered ( partly ) with water , air is atop of that .
Pure fire ( the stars ) is in the heavens .
When combined with the metaphysical notion that pure forms of this universe are best appreciated when least embodied in a material substratum , it becomes clear that while earth will be dross on a scale of material-formal ratios , celestial bodies will be of a subtle , quickened , ethereal existence , in whose embodiment pure form will be the dominant component and matter will be absent or remain subsidiary .
The stars constitute an order of existence different from what we encounter on earth .
This is clear when one distinguishes the types of motion appropriate to both regions .
A projectile shot up from earth returns rectlinearly to its ' natural ' place of rest .
But the natural condition for the heavenly bodies is neither rest , nor rectilinear motion .
Being less encumbered by material embodiments they partake more of what is divine .
Their motion will be eternal and perfect .
Let us re-examine the publicized contrasts between Ptolemaic and Copernican astronomy .
Bluntly , there never was a Ptolemaic system of astronomy .
Copernicus' achievement was to have invented systematic astronomy .
The Almagest and The Hypotheses outline Ptolemy's conception of his own task as the provision of computational tables , independent calculating devices for the prediction of future planetary perturbations .
Indeed , in the Halma edition of Theon's presentation of The Hypotheses there is a chart setting out ( under six distinct headings ) otherwise unrelated diagrams for describing the planetary motions .
No attempt is made by Ptolemy to weld into a single scheme ( a-la-Aristotle ) , these independent predicting-machines .
They all have this in common : the earth is situated near the center of the deferent .
But that one should superimpose all these charts , run a pin through the common point , and then scale each planetary deferent larger and smaller ( to keep the epicycles from ' bumping ' ) , this is contrary to any intention Ptolemy ever expresses .
He might even suppose the planets to move at infinity .
Ptolemy's problem is to forecast where , against the inverted bowl of night , some particular light will be found at future times .
His problem concerns longitudes , latitudes , and angular velocities .
The distances of these points of light is a problem he cannot master , beyond crude conjectures as to the orderings of the planetary orbits viewed outward from earth .
But none of this has prevented scientists , philosophers , and even historians of science , from speaking of the Ptolemaic system , in contrast to the Copernican .
This is a mistake .
It is engendered by confounding the Aristotelian cosmology in The Almagest with the geocentric astronomy .
Ptolemy recurrently denies that he could ever explain planetary motion .
This is what necessitates the nonsystematic character of his astronomy .
So when textbooks , like that of Baker set out drawings of the ' Ptolemaic System ' , complete with earth in the center and the seven heavenly bodies epicyclically arranged on their several deferents , we have nothing but a misleading 20th-century idea of what never existed historically .
It is the chief merit in Copernicus' work that all his planetary calculations are interdependent .
He cannot , e.g. compute the retrograde arc traveled by Mars , without also making suppositions about the earth's own motion .
He cannot describe eclipses without entertaining some form of a three-body problem .
In Ptolemaic terms , however , eclipses and retrograde motion were phenomena simpliciter , to be explained directly as possible resultants of epicyclical combinations .
In a systematic astronomy , like that of Copernicus , retrogradations become part of the conceptual structure of the system ; ;
they are no longer a puzzling aspect of intricately variable , local planetary motions .
Another contrast stressed when discussing Ptolemaic vs. Copernican astronomy , turns on the idea of simplicity .
It is often stated that Copernican astronomy is ' simpler ' than Ptolemaic .
Some even say that this is the reason for the ultimate acceptance of the former .
Thus , Margenau remarks : `` A large number of unrelated epicycles was needed to explain the observations , but otherwise the ( Ptolemaic ) system served well and with quantitative precision .
Copernicus , by placing the sun at the center of the planetary universe , was able to reduce the number of epicycles from eighty-three to seventeen .
Historical records indicate that Copernicus was unaware of the fundamental aspects of his so-called ' revolution ' , unaware perhaps of its historical importance , he rested content with having produced a simpler scheme for prediction .
As an illustration of the principle of simplicity the heliocentric discovery has a peculiar appeal because it allows simplicity to be arithmetized ; ;
it involves a reduction in the number of epicycles from eighty-three to seventeen '' .
Without careful qualification this can be misleading .
If in any one calculation Ptolemy had had to invoke 83 epicycles all at once , while Copernicus never required more than one third this number , then ( in the sense obvious to Margenau ) Ptolemaic astronomy would be simpler than Copernican .
But no single planetary problem ever required of Ptolemy more than six epicycles at one time .
This , of course , results from the non-systematic , ' cellular ' character of Ptolemaic theory .
Calculations within the Copernican framework always raised questions about planetary configurations .
These could be met only by considering the dynamical elements of several planets at one time .
This is more ambitious than Ptolemy is ever required to be when he faces his isolated problems .
Thus , in no ordinary sense of ' simplicity ' is the Ptolemaic theory simpler than the Copernican .
The latter required juggling several elements simultaneously .
This was not simpler but much more difficult than exercises within Ptolemy's astronomy .
Analogously , anyone who argues that Einstein's theory of gravitation is simpler than Newton's , must say rather more to explain how it is that the latter is mastered by student-physicists , while the former can be managed ( with difficulty ) only by accomplished experts .
In a sense , Einstein's theory is simpler than Newton's , and there is a corresponding sense in which Copernicus' theory is simpler than Ptolemy's .
But ' simplicity ' here refers to systematic simplicity .
The number of primitive ideas in systematically-simple theories is reduced to a minimum .
The Axioms required to make the theoretical machinery operate are set out tersely and powerfully , so that all permissible operations within the theory can be traced rigorously back to these axioms , rules , and primitive notions .
This characterizes Euclid's formulation of geometry , but not Ptolemy's astronomy .
There are in The Almagest no rules for determining in advance whether a new epicycle will be required for dealing with abberations in lunar , solar , or planetary behavior .
The strongest appeal of the Copernican formulation consisted in just this : ideally , the justification for dealing with special problems in particular ways is completely set out in the basic ' rules ' of the theory .
The lower-level hypotheses are never ' ad hoc ' , never introduced ex post facto just to sweep up within the theory some recalcitrant datum .
Copernicus , to an extent unachieved by Ptolemy , approximated to Euclid's vision .
De Revolutionibus is not just a collection of facts and techniques .
It is an organized system of these things .
Solving astronomical problems requires , for Copernicus , not a random search of unrelated tables , but a regular employment of the rules defining the entire discipline .
Hence , noting the simplicity achieved in Copernicus' formulation does not provide another reason for the acceptance of De Revolutionibus , another reason beyond its systematic superiority .
It provides exactly the same reason .
1543 A.D. is often venerated as the birthday of the scientific revolution .
It is really the funeral day of scholastic science .
Granted , the cosmological , philosophical , and cultural reverberations initiated by the De Revolutionibus were felt with increasing violence during the 300 years to follow .
But , considered within technical astronomy , a different pattern can be traced .
In what does the dissatisfaction of Copernicus-the-astronomer consist ? ?
What in The Almagest draws his fire ? ?
Geocentricism per se ? ?
No .
The formal displacement of the geocentric principle far from being Copernicus' primary concern , was introduced only to resolve what seemed to him intolerable in orthodox astronomy , namely , the ' unphysical ' triplication of centric reference-points : one center from which the planet's distances were calculated , another around which planetary velocities were computed , and still a third center ( the earth ) from which the observations originated .
This arrangement was for Copernicus literally monstrous : `` With ( the Ptolemaists ) it is as though an artist were to gather the hands , feet , head and other members for his images from divers models , each part excellently drawn , but not related to a single body ; ;
and since they in no way match each other , the result would be a monster rather than a man '' .
Copernicus required a systematically integrated , physically intelligible astronomy .
His objective was , essentially , to repair those aspects of orthodox astronomy responsible for its deficiencies in achieving these ends .
That such deficiencies existed within Ptolemy's theory was not discovered de novo by Copernicus .
The critical , rigorous examinations of Nicholas of Cusa and Nicholas of Oresme provided the context ( a late medieval context ) for Nicholas Copernicus' own work .
The latter looked backward upon inherited deficiencies .
Without abandoning too much , Copernicus sought to make orthodox astronomy systematically and mechanically acceptable .
He did not think himself to be firing the first shot of an intellectual revolution .
Henrietta's feeling of identity with Sara Sullam was crowned by her discovery of the coincidence that Sara's epitaph in the Jewish cemetery in Venice referred to her as `` the Sulamite '' .
Into the texture of this tapestry of history and human drama Henrietta , as every artist delights to do , wove strands of her own intuitive insights into human nature and -- especially in the remarkable story of the attraction and conflict between two so disparate and fervent characters as this pair -- into the relations of men and women : `` In their relations , she was the giver and he the receiver , nay the demander .
His feeling always exacted sacrifices from her .
One is so accustomed to think of men as the privileged who need but ask and receive , and women as submissive and yielding , that our sympathies are usually enlisted on the side of the man whose love is not returned , and we condemn the woman as a coquette .
The very firmness of her convictions and logical clearness of her arguments captivated and stimulated him to make greater efforts ; ;
usually , this is most exasperating to men , who expect every woman to verify their preconceived notions concerning her sex , and when she does not , immediately condemn her as eccentric and unwomanly .
She had the opportunity that few clever women can resist , of showing her superiority in argument over a man .
Women themselves have come to look upon matters in the same light as the outside world , and scarcely find any wrong in submitting to the importunities of a stronger will , even when their affections are withheld .
She was exposing herself to temptation which it is best to avoid where it can consistently be done .
One who invites such trials of character is either foolhardy , overconfident or too simple and childlike in faith in mankind to see the danger .
In any case but the last , such a course is sure to avenge itself upon the individual ; ;
the moral powers no more than the physical and mental , can bear overstraining .
And , in the last case , a bitter disappointment but too often meets the confiding nature .
''
Henrietta was discovering in the process of writing , as the born writer does , not merely a channel for the discharge of accumulated information but a stimulus to the development of the creative powers of observation , insight and intuition .
Dr. Isaacs was so pleased with the quality of her biographical study of Sara Sullam that he considered submitting it to the Century Magazine or Harper's but he decided that its Jewish subject probably would not interest them and published it in The Messenger , `` so our readers will be benefited instead '' .
Under her father's influence it did not occur to Henrietta that she might write on subjects outside the Jewish field , but she did begin writing for other Anglo-Jewish papers and thus increased her output and her audience .
And she wrote the libretto for an oratorio on the subject of Judas Maccabeus performed at the Hanukkah festival which came in December .
By her eighteenth birthday her bent for writing was so evident that Papa and Mamma gave her a Life Of Dickens as a spur to her aspiration .
Another source of intellectual stimulus was opened to her at that time by the founding of Johns Hopkins University within walking distance of home .
It was established in a couple of buildings in the shopping district , with only a few professors , but all eminent men , and a few hundred eager students housed in nearby dwellings .
In September '76 Thomas Huxley , Darwin's famous disciple , came from England to speak in a crowded auditorium at the formal opening of the University ; ;
and although it was a school for men only , it afforded Henrietta an opportunity to attend its public lectures .
In the following year her father undertook to give a course in Hebrew theology to Johns Hopkins students , and this brought to the Szold house a group of bright young Jews who had come to Baltimore to study , and who enjoyed being fed and mothered by Mamma and entertained by Henrietta and Rachel , who played and sang for them in the upstairs sitting room on Sunday evenings .
From Philadelphia came Cyrus Adler and Joseph Jastrow .
Adler , Judge Sulzberger's nephew , came to study Assyriology .
A smart , shrewd and ambitious young man , well connected , and with a knack for getting in the good graces of important people , he was bound to go far .
Joseph Jastrow , the younger son of the distinguished rabbi , Marcus Jastrow , was a friendly , round-faced fellow with a little mustache , whose field was psychology , and who was also a punster and a jolly tease .
His father was a good friend of Rabbi Szold , and Joe lived with the Szolds for a while .
Both these youths , who greatly admired Henrietta , were somewhat younger than she , as were also the neighboring Friedenwald boys , who were then studying medicine ; ;
and bright though they all were , they could not possibly compete for her interest with Papa , whose mind -- although he never tried to dazzle or patronize lesser lights with it -- naturally eclipsed theirs and made them seem to her even younger than they were .
Besides , Miss Henrietta -- as she was generally known since she had put up her hair with a chignon in the back -- had little time to spare them from her teaching and writing ; ;
so Cyrus Adler became interested in her friend Racie Friedenwald , and Joe Jastrow -- the only young man who when he wrote had the temerity to address her as Henrietta , and signed himself Joe -- fell in love with pretty sister Rachel .
Henrietta , however , was at that time engaged in a lengthy correspondence with Joe's older and more serious brother , Morris , who was just about her own age and whom she had got to know well during trips to Philadelphia with Papa , when he substituted for Rabbi Jastrow at Rodeph Shalom Temple there during its Rabbi's absence in Europe .
Young Morris , who , while attending the University of Pennsylvania , also taught and edited a paper , found time to write Henrietta twenty-page letters on everything that engaged his interest , from the acting of Sarah Bernhardt in Philadelphia to his reactions to the comments of `` Sulamith '' on the Jewish reform movement being promulgated by the Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati .
Unlike his younger brother , Joe , he never presumed to address her more familiarly than as `` My dear friend '' , although he praised and envied the elegance and purity of her style .
And when he complained of the lack of time for all he wanted to do , Henrietta advised him to rise at five in the morning as she and Papa did .
One thing Papa had not taught Henrietta was how to handle a young man as high-spirited and opinionated as herself .
She could not resist the opportunity `` of showing her superiority in argument over a man '' which she had remarked as one of the `` feminine follies '' of Sara Sullam ; ;
and in her forthright way , Henrietta , who in her story of Sara had indicated her own unwillingness `` to think of men as the privileged '' and `` women as submissive and yielding '' , felt obliged to defend vigorously any statement of hers to which Morris Jastrow took the slightest exception -- he objected to her stand on the Corbin affair , as well as on the radical reforms of Dr. Wise of Hebrew Union College -- until once , in sheer desperation , he wrote that he had given up hope they would ever agree on anything .
But that did not prevent him from writing more long letters , or from coming to spend his Christmas vacations with the hospitable , lively Szolds in their pleasant house on Lombard Street .
1880s : `` little women ''
`` we've got Father and Mother and each other '' said Beth on the first page of Louisa Alcott's Little Women ; ;
and , `` I do think that families are the most beautiful things in all the world '' , burst out Jo some five hundred pages later in that popular story of the March family , which had first appeared when Henrietta was eight ; ;
and the Szold family , as it developed , bore a striking resemblance to the Marches .
Mr. March , like Benjamin Szold , was a clergyman , although of an indeterminate denomination ; ;
and `` Marmee '' March , like Sophie Szold , was the competent manager of her brood of girls , of whom the Marches had only four to the Szolds' five .
But the March girls had their counterparts in the Szold girls .
Henrietta could easily identify herself with Jo March , although Jo was not the eldest sister .
Neither was Henrietta hoydenish like Jo , who frankly wished she were a boy and had deliberately shortened her name , which , like Henrietta's , was the feminine form of a boy's name .
But both were high-spirited and vivacious , both had tempers to control , both loved languages , especially English and German , both were good teachers and wrote for publication .
Each was her mother's assistant and confidante ; ;
and each stood out conspicuously in the family picture .
Bertha Szold was more like Meg , the eldest March girl , who `` learned that a woman's happiest kingdom is home , her highest honor the art of ruling it , not as a queen , but a wise wife and mother '' .
Bertha , blue-eyed like Mamma , was from the start her mother's daughter , destined for her mother's role in life .
Sadie , like Beth March , suffered ill health -- got rheumatic fever and had to be careful of her heart -- but that never dampened her spirits .
When her right hand was incapacitated by the rheumatism , Sadie learned to write with her left hand .
She wrote gay plays about the girls for family entertainments , like `` Oh , What Fun ! !
A Comedy In Three Acts '' , in which , under `` Personages '' , Henrietta appeared as `` A Schoolmarm '' , and Bertha , who was only a trifle less brilliant in high school than Henrietta had been , appeared as `` Dummkopf '' .
Sadie studied piano ; ;
played Chopin in the `` Soiree Musicale of Mr. Guthrie's Pupils '' ; ;
and she recited `` Hector's Farewell To Andromache '' most movingly , to the special delight of Rabbi Jastrow at his home in Germantown near Philadelphia , where the Szold girls took turns visiting between the visits of the Jastrow boys at the Szolds' in Baltimore .
Adele , like Amy , the youngest of the Marches , was the rebellious , mischievous , rather calculating and ambitious one .
For Rachel , conceded to be the prettiest of the Szold girls -- and she did make a pretty picture sitting in the grape-arbor strumming her guitar and singing in her silvery tones -- there was no particular March counterpart ; ;
but both groups were so closely knit that despite individual differences the family life in both cases was remarkably similar in atmosphere if not entirely in content -- the one being definitely Jewish and the other vaguely Christian .
The Szolds , like the Marches , enjoyed and loved living together , even in troubled times ; ;
and , as in the March home , any young man who called on the Szolds found himself confronted with a phalanx of femininity which made it rather difficult to direct his particular attention to any one of them .
This included Mamma , jolly , generous , and pretty , with whom they all fell in love , just as Papa had first fallen in love with her Mamma before he chose her ; ;
and when a young man like Morris Jastrow had enjoyed the Szold hospitality , he felt obliged to send his respects and his gifts not merely to Henrietta , in whom he was really interested , but to all the Szold girls and Mamma .
And just as `` Laurie '' Lawrence was first attracted to bright Jo March , who found him immature by her high standards , and then had to content himself with her younger sister Amy , so Joe Jastrow , who had also been writing Henrietta before he came to Johns Hopkins , had to content himself with her younger sister , pretty Rachel .
And like Jo March , who saw her sisters Meg and Amy involved in `` lovering '' before herself , Henrietta saw her sisters Rachel and Sadie drawn outside their family circle by the attraction of suitors , Rachel by Joe Jastrow , and Sadie by Max Lobl , a young businessman who would write her romantic descriptions of his trips by steamboat down the Mississippi .
This time he was making no mistake .
Olgivanna -- in her country the nickname was a respectful form of address -- was not only attractive but shrewd , durable , sensible , and smart .
No wonder Wright was enchanted -- no two better suited people ever met .
Almost from that day , until his death , Olgivanna was to stay at his side ; ;
but the years that immediately followed were to be extraordinarily trying , both for Wright and his Montenegrin lady .
It must be granted that the flouting of convention , no matter how well intentioned one may be , is sure to lead to trouble , or at least to the discomfort that goes with social disapproval .
Even so , many of the things that happened to Wright and Olgivanna seem inordinately severe .
Their afflictions centered on one maddening difficulty : Miriam held up the divorce proceedings that she herself had asked for .
Reporters began to trail Miriam everywhere , and to encourage her to make appalling statements about Wright and his doings .
Flocks of writs , attachments , and unpleasant legal papers of every sort began to fly through the air .
The distracted Miriam would agree to a settlement through her legal representative , then change her mind and make another attack on Wright as a person .
At last her lawyer , Arthur D. Cloud , gave up the case because she turned down three successive settlements he arranged .
Cloud made an interesting statement in parting from his client : `` I wanted to be a lawyer , and Mrs. Wright wanted me to be an avenging angel .
So I got out .
Mrs. Wright is without funds .
The first thing to do is get her some money by a temporary but definite adjustment pending a final disposition of the case .
But every time I suggested this to her , Mrs. Wright turned it down and demanded that I go out and punish Mr. Wright .
I am an attorney , not an instrument of vengeance '' .
Miriam Noel disregarded the free advice of her departing counselor , and appointed a heavy-faced young man named Harold Jackson to take his place .
There were three years of this strange warfare ; ;
and during the unhappy time , Miriam often would charge that Wright and Olgivanna were misdemeanants against the public order of Wisconsin .
Yet somehow , when officers were prodded into visiting Taliesin to execute the warrants , they would find neither Wright nor Olgivanna at home .
This showed that common sense had not died out at the county and village level -- though why the unhappy and obviously unbalanced woman was not restrained remains a puzzle .
The misery of Miriam's bitterness can be felt today by anyone who studies the case -- it was hopeless , agonizing , and destructive , with Miriam herself bearing the heaviest burden of shame and pain .
To get an idea of the embarrassment and chagrin that was heaped upon Wright and Olgivanna , we should bear in mind that the raids were sometimes led by Miriam in person .
One of the most distressing of these scenes occurred at Spring Green toward the end of the open warfare , on a beautiful day in June .
At this time Miriam Noel appeared , urging on Constable Henry Pengally , whose name showed him to be a descendant of the Welsh settlers in the neighborhood .
A troop of reporters brought up the rear .
Miriam was stopped at the Taliesin gate , and William Weston , now the estate foreman , came out to parley .
He said that Mr. Wright was not in , and so could not be arrested on something called a peace warrant that Miriam was waving in the air .
Miriam now ordered Pengally to break down the gate , but he said he really couldn't go that far .
At this point Mrs. Frances Cupply , one of Wright's handsome daughters by his first wife , came from the house and tried to calm Miriam as she tore down a no visitors sign and smashed the glass pane on another sign with a rock .
Miriam Noel Wright said , `` Here I am at my own home , locked out so I must stand in the road '' ! !
Then she rounded on Weston and cried , `` You always did Wright's dirty work ! !
When I take over Taliesin , the first thing I'll do is fire you '' .
`` Madame Noel , I think you had better go '' , said Mrs. Cupply .
`` And I think you had better leave '' , replied Miriam .
Turning to the reporters , she asked , `` Did you hear her ? ?
' I think you had better leave ' ! !
And this is my own home '' .
In the silence that followed , Miriam walked close to Mrs. Cupply , who drew back a step on her side of the gate .
Then , with staring eyes and lips drawn thin , Miriam said to the young woman , `` You are ugly -- uglier than you used to be , and you were always very ugly .
You are even uglier than Mr. Wright '' .
The animosity expressed by such a scene had the penetrating quality of a natural force ; ;
and it gave Miriam Noel a fund of energy like that of a person inspired to complete some great and universal work of art .
As if to make certain that Wright would be unable to pay any settlement at all , Miriam wrote to prospective clients denouncing him ; ;
she also went to Washington and appealed to Senator George William Norris of Nebraska , the Fighting Liberal , from whose office a sympathetic but cautious harrumphing was heard .
Then , after overtures to accept a settlement and go through with a divorce , Miriam gave a ghastly echo of Mrs. Micawber by suddenly stating , `` I will never leave Mr. Wright '' .
Under this kind of pressure , it is not surprising that Wright would make sweeping statements to the newspapers .
Miriam had not yet goaded him into mentioning her directly , but one can feel the generalized anger in Wright's remarks to reporters when he was asked , one morning on arrival in Chicago , what he thought of the city as a whole .
First , Wright said , he was choked by the smoke , which fortunately kept him from seeing the dreadful town .
But surely Michigan Avenue was handsome ? ?
`` That isn't a boulevard , it's a racetrack '' ! !
Cried Wright , showing that automobiles were considered to be a danger as early as the 1920's .
`` This is a horrible way to live '' , Wright went on .
`` You are being strangled by traffic '' .
He was then asked for a solution of the difficulty , and began to talk trenchant sense , though private anguish showed through in the vehemence of his manner .
`` Take a gigantic knife and sweep it over the Loop '' , Wright said .
`` Cut off every building at the seventh floor .
Spread everything out .
You don't need concentration .
If you cut down these horrible buildings you'll have no more traffic jams .
You'll have trees again .
You'll have some joy in the life of this city .
After all , that's the job of the architect -- to give the world a little joy '' .
Little enough joy was afforded Wright in the spring of 1925 , when another destructive fire broke out at Taliesin .
The first news stories had it that this blaze was started by a bolt of lightning , as though Miriam could call down fire from heaven like a prophet of the Old Testament .
A storm did take place that night , and fortunately enough , it included a cloudburst that helped put out the flames .
Later accounts blamed defective wiring for starting the fire ; ;
at any rate , heat grew so intense in the main part of the house that it melted the window panes , and fused the K'ang-si pottery to cinders .
Wright set his loss at $200,000 , a figure perhaps justified by the unique character of the house that had been ruined , and the faultless taste that had gone into the selection of the prints and other things that were destroyed .
In spite of the disaster , Wright completed during this period plans for the Lake Tahoe resort , in which he suggested the shapes of American Indian tepees -- a project of great and appropriate charm , that came to nothing .
Amid a shortage of profitable work , the memory of Albert Johnson's $20,000 stood out in lonely grandeur -- the money had quickly melted away .
A series of conferences with friends and bankers began about this time ; ;
and the question before these meetings was , here is a man of international reputation and proved earning power ; ;
how can he be financed so that he can find the work he ought to do ? ?
While this was under consideration , dauntless as ever Wright set about the building of Taliesin 3 .
As he made plans for the new Taliesin , Wright also got on paper his conception of a cathedral of steel and glass to house a congregation of all faiths , and the idea for a planetarium with a sloping ramp .
Years were to pass before these plans came off the paper , and Wright was justified in thinking , as the projects failed , that much of what he had to show his country and the world would never be seen except by visitors to Taliesin .
And now there was some question as to his continued residence there .
Billy Koch , who had once worked for Wright as a chauffeur , gave a deposition for Miriam's use that he had seen Olgivanna living at Taliesin .
This might put Wright in such a bad light before a court that Miriam would be awarded Taliesin ; ;
nor was she moved by a letter from Wright pointing out that if he was not `` compelled to spend money on useless lawyer's bills , useless hotel bills , and useless doctor's bills '' , he could more quickly provide Miriam with a suitable home either in Los Angeles or Paris , as she preferred .
Miriam sniffed at this , and complained that Wright had said unkind things about her to reporters .
His reply was , `` Everything that has been printed derogatory to you , purporting to have come from me , was a betrayal , and nothing yet has been printed which I have sanctioned '' .
What irritated Miriam was that Wright had told the papers about a reasonable offer he had made , which he considered she would accept `` when she tires of publicity '' .
From her California headquarters , Miriam fired back , `` I shall never divorce Mr. Wright , to permit him to marry Olga Milanoff '' .
Then Miriam varied the senseless psychological warfare by suddenly withdrawing a suit for separate maintenance that had been pending , and asking for divorce on the grounds of cruelty , with the understanding that Wright would not contest it .
The Bank of Wisconsin sent a representative to the judge's chambers in Madison to give information on Wright's ability to meet the terms .
He said that the architect might reasonably be expected to carry his financial burdens if all harrassment could be brought to an end , and that the bank would accept a mortgage on Taliesin to help bring this about .
Miriam said that she must be assured that `` that other woman , Olga , will not be in luxury while I am scraping along '' .
This exhausted Wright's patience , and in consequence he talked freely to reporters in a Madison hotel suite .
`` Volstead laws , speed laws , divorce laws '' , he said , `` as they now stand , demoralize the individual , make liars and law breakers of us in one way or another , and tend to make our experiment in democracy absurd .
If Mrs. Wright doesn't accept the terms in the morning , I'll go either to Tokyo or to Holland , to do what I can .
I realize , in taking this stand , just what it means to me and mine '' .
Here Wright gave a slight sigh of weariness , and continued , `` It means more long years lived across the social grain of the life of our people , making shift to live in the face of popular disrespect and misunderstanding as I best can for myself and those dependent upon me '' .
Next day , word came that Miriam was not going through with the divorce ; ;
but Wright stayed in the United States .
His mentioning of Japan and Holland had been merely the expression of wishful thinking .
No matter what troubles might betide him , this most American of artists knew in his heart he could not function properly outside his native land .
In a few weeks Miriam made another sortie at Taliesin , but was repulsed at the locked and guarded gates .
More likely , you simply told yourself , as you handed us the book , that it mattered little what we incanted providing we underwent the discipline of incantation .
For pride's sake , I will not say that the coy and leering vade mecum of those verses insinuated itself into my soul .
Besides , that particular message does no more than weakly echo the roar in all fresh blood .
But what you could not know , of course , was how smoothly the Victorian Fitzgerald was to lead into an American Fitzgerald of my own vintage under whose banner we adolescents were to come , if not of age , then into a bright , taut semblance of it .
I do not suppose you ever heard of F. Scott Fitzgerald , living or dead , and moreover I do not suppose that , even if you had , his legend would have seemed to you to warrant more than a cluck of disapproval .
Neither his appetites , his exacerbations , nor his despair were kin to yours .
He might have been the man in the moon for all you could have understood him .
But he was no man in the moon to me .
Although his tender nights were not the ones I dreamed of , nor was it for yachts , sports cars , tall drinks , and swimming pools , nor yet for money or what money buys that I burned , I too was burning and watching myself burn .
The flame was simply of a different kind .
It was symbolized ( at least for those of us who recognized ourselves in the image ) by that self-consuming , elegiac candle of Edna St. Vincent Millay's , that candle which from the quatrain where she ensconced it became a beacon to us , but which in point of fact would have had to be as tall as a funeral taper to last even the evening , let alone the night .
One should not , of course , pluck the head off a flower and expect its perfume to linger on .
Yet this passion for passion , now that I look back on it with passion spent , seems somewhat overblown and operatic , though as a diva Miss Millay perfectly controlled her notes .
Only what else was she singing but the old Song of Songs , that most ancient of tunes that nature plays with such unfailing response upon young nerves ? ?
Perhaps this is not so little .
Perhaps the mere fact that by plucking on the nerves nature can awaken in the most ordinary of us , temporarily anyway , the sleeping poet , and in poets can discover their immortality , is the most remarkable of all the remarkable phenomena to which we can attest ? ?
One can see it as humiliating that an extra hormone casually fed into our chemistry may induce us to lay down our lives for a lover or a friend ; ;
one can take it as no more than another veil torn from the mystery of the soul .
But it could also be looked at from the other end of the spectrum .
One could see this chemical determinant as in itself a miracle .
In any case , Miss Millay's sweet-throated bitterness , her variations on the theme that the world was not only well lost for love but even well lost for lost love , her constant and wonderfully tragic posture , so unlike that of Fitzgerald since it required no scenery or props , drew from the me that I was when I fell upon her verses an overwhelming yea .
But all this , I am well aware , is the bel canto of love , and although I have always liked to think that it was to the bel canto and to that alone that I listened , I know well enough that it was not .
If I am to speak the whole truth about my knowledge of love , I will have to stop trying to emulate the transcendant nightingale .
There is another side of love , more nearly symbolized by the croak of the mating capercailzie , or better still perhaps by the mute antics of the slug .
Whether you experienced the passion of desire I have , of course , no way of knowing , nor indeed have I wished with even the most fleeting fragment of a wish to know , for the fact that one constitutes by one's mere existence so to speak the proof of some sort of passion makes any speculation upon this part of one's parents' experience more immodest , more scandalizing , more deeply unwelcome than an obscenity from a stranger .
I recoil from the very thought .
At the same time , I am aware that my recoil could be interpreted by readers of the tea leaves at the bottom of my psyche as an incestuous sign , since theirs is a science of paradox : if one hates , they say it is because one loves ; ;
if one bullies , they say it is because one is afraid ; ;
if one shuns , they say it is because one desires ; ;
and according to them , whatever one fancies one feels , what one feels in fact is the opposite .
Well , normally abnormal or normally normal , neurotic or merely fastidious ( do the tea-leaf readers , by the way , allow psyches to have moral taste ? ?
) , I have never wanted to know what you knew of passion .
You probably would not remember , since you never seemed to remember even the same moments as I , much less their intensity , one sunny midday on Fifth Avenue when you had set out with me for some final shopping less than a week before the wedding you staged for me with such reluctance at the Farm .
I can see us now .
We had been walking quite briskly , for despite your being so small and me so tall , your stride in those days could easily match mine .
We had stopped before a shop window to assess its autumnal display , when you suddenly turned to me , looking up from beneath one of your wrong hats , and with your nervous `` ahem '' ! !
Said : `` There are things I must tell you about this man you are marrying which he does not know himself '' .
If you had screamed right there in the street where we stood , I could not have felt more fear .
With scarcely a mumble of excuse , I fled .
I fled , however , not from what might have been the natural fear of being unable to disguise from you that the things about my bridegroom -- in the sense you meant the word `` things '' -- which you had been galvanizing yourself to tell me as a painful part of your maternal duty were things which I had already insisted upon finding out for myself ( despite , I may now say , the unspeakable awkwardness of making the discovery on principle , yes , on principle , and in cold blood ) because I was resolved , as a modern woman , not to be a mollycoddle waiting for Life but to seize Life by the throat .
I had developed too foolproof a facade to be afraid of self-betrayal .
What I fled from was my fear of what , unwittingly , you might betray , without meaning to , about my father and yourself .
But I can see from this latest trick of memory how much more arbitrary and influential it is than the will .
While my memory holds with relentless tenacity , as I cannot too often stress , to my wrongs , when it comes to my shames , it gestures and jokes and toys with chronology like a prestidigitator in the hope of distracting me from them .
Just as I was about to enlarge upon my discovery of the underside of the leaf of love , memory , displeased at being asked to yield its unsavory secrets , dashed ahead of me , calling back over its shoulder : `` Skip it .
Cut it out '' .
But I will not skip it or cut it out .
It is not my intention in this narrative to picture myself as a helpless victim moored to the rock of experience and left to the buffetings of chance .
If to be innocent is to be helpless , then I had been -- as are we all -- helpless at the start .
But the time came when I was no longer innocent and therefore no longer helpless .
Helpless in that sense I can never be again .
However , I confess my hope that I will be innocent again , not with a pristine , accidental innocence , but rather with an innocence achieved by the slow cutting away of the flesh to reach the bone .
For innocence , of all the graces of the spirit , is I believe the one most to be prayed for .
Although it is constantly made to look foolish ( too simple to come in out of the rain , people say , who have found in the innocent an impediment ) , it does not mind looking foolish because it is not concerned with how it looks .
It assumes that things are as they seem when they seem best , and when they seem worst it overlooks them .
To innocence , a word given is a word that will be kept .
Instinctively , innocence does unto others as it expects to be done by .
But when these expectations are once too often ground into the dust , innocence can falter , since its strength is according to the strength of him who possesses it .
The innocence of which I speak is , I know , not incorruptible .
But I insist upon believing that even when it is lost , it may , like paradise , be regained .
However , it was not of innocence in general that I was speaking , but of perhaps the frailest and surely the least important side of it which is innocence in romantic love .
Here , if anywhere , it is not wholly incontrovertible .
To you , for instance , the word innocence , in this connotation , probably retained its Biblical , or should I say technical sense , and therefore I suppose I must make myself quite clear by saying that I lost -- or rather handed over -- what you would have considered to be my innocence two weeks before I was legally entitled , and in fact by oath required , to hand it over along with what other goods and bads I had .
But to me innocence is far less tangible .
I had long since begun to lose my general innocence when I lost my trust in you , but this special innocence I lost before ever I loved , through my discovery that one could tremble with desire and even experience a flaming delight that had nothing , nothing whatever to do with friendship or liking , let alone with love .
I knew this knowledge to be corrupting at the time I acquired it ; ;
today , these many years later , after all the temptations resisted or yielded to , the weasel satisfactions and the engulfing dissatisfactions since endured , I call it corrupting still .
You , I could swear to it , remained innocent in this sense until the end .
Yours , but not mine , was an age in which innocence was fostered and carefully -- if not perhaps altogether innocently -- preserved .
You had grown up at a time when the most distinguishing mark of a lady was the noli me tangere writ plain across her face .
Moreover , because of the particular blot on your family escutcheon through what may only have been one unbridled moment on your grandmother's part , and because you had the lean-to kitchen and trundle bed of your childhood to outgrow , what you obviously most desired with both your conscious and unconscious person , what you bent your whole will , sensibility , and intelligence upon , was to be a lady .
Before being daughter , wife , or mother , before being cultured ( a word now bereft both socially and politically of the sheen you children of frontiersmen bestowed on it ) , before being sorry for the poor , progressive about public health , and prettily if somewhat imprecisely humanitarian , indeed first and foremost , you were a lady .
There was , of course , more to the portrait of a lady you carried in your mind's eye than the sine qua non of her virtue .
A lady , you made clear to me both by precept and example , never raised her voice or slumped in her chair , never failed in social tact ( in heaven , for instance , would not mention St. John the Baptist's head ) , never pouted or withdrew or scandalized in company , never reminded others of her physical presence by unseemly sound or gesture , never indulged in public scenes or private confidences , never spoke of money save in terms of alleviating suffering , never gossiped or maligned , never stressed but always minimized the hopelessness of anything from sin to death itself .
With each song he gave verbal footnotes .
The songs Sandburg sang often reminded listeners of songs of a kindred character they knew entirely or in fragments .
Often these listeners would refer Sandburg to persons who had similar ballads or ditties .
In due time Sandburg was a walking thesaurus of American folk music .
After he had finished the first two volumes of his Lincoln , Sandburg went to work assembling a book of songs out of hobo and childhood days and from the memory of songs others had taught him .
He rummaged , found composers and arrangers , collaborated on the main design and outline of harmonization with musicians , ballad singers , and musicologists .
The result was a collection of 280 songs , ballads , ditties , brought together from all regions of America , more than one hundred never before published : The American Songbag .
Each song or ditty was prefaced by an author's note which indicated the origin and meaning of the song as well as special interest the song had , musical arrangement , and most of the chorus and verses .
The book , published in 1927 , has been selling steadily ever since .
As Sandburg said at the time : `` It is as ancient as the medieval European ballads brought to the Appalachian Mountains , it is as modern as skyscrapers , the Volstead Act , and the latest oil well gusher '' .
Schopenhauer never learned
Sandburg is in constant demand as an entertainer .
Two things contribute to his popularity .
First , Carl respects his audience and prepares his speeches carefully .
Even when he is called upon for impromptu remarks , he has notes written on the back of handy envelopes .
He has his own system of shorthand , devised by abbreviations : `` humility '' will be `` humly '' , `` with '' will be `` w '' , and `` that '' will be `` tt '' .
The second reason for his popularity is his complete spontaneity with the guitar .
It is a mistake , however , to imagine that Sandburg uses the guitar as a prop .
He is no dextrous-fingered college boy but rather a dedicated , humble , and bashful apostle of this instrument .
At age seventy-four , he became what he shyly terms a `` pupil '' of Andres Segovia , the great guitarist of the Western world .
It is not easy to become Segovia's pupil .
One needs high talent .
Segovia has written about Carl :
`` His fingers labor heavily on the strings and he asked for my help in disciplining them .
I found that this precocious , grown-up boy of 74 deserved to be taught .
There has long existed a brotherly affection between us , thus I accepted him as my pupil .
Just as in the case of every prodigy child , we must watch for the efficacy of my teaching to show up in the future -- if he should master all the strenuous exercises I inflicted on him .
To play the guitar as he aspires will devour his three-fold energy as a historian , a poet and a singer .
One cause of Schopenhauer's pessimism was the fact that he failed to learn the guitar .
I am certain that Carl Sandburg will not fall into the same sad philosophy .
The heart of this great poet constantly bubbles forth a generous joy of life -- with or without the guitar '' .
The public's identification of Carl Sandburg and the guitar is no happenstance .
Nor does Carl reject this identity .
He is proud of having Segovia for a friend and dedicated a poem to him titled `` The Guitar '' .
Carl says it is the greatest poem ever written to the guitar because he has never heard of any other poem to that subtle instrument .
`` A portable companion always ready to go where you go -- a small friend weighing less than a freshborn infant -- to be shared with few or many -- just two of you in sweet meditation '' .
The New York Herald Tribune's photographer , Ira Rosenberg , tells an anecdote about the time he wanted to take a picture of Carl playing a guitar .
Carl hadn't brought his along .
Mr. Rosenberg suggested that they go out and find one .
`` Preferably '' , said Carl , `` one battered and worn , such as might be found in a pawnshop '' .
They went to the pawnshop of Joseph Miller of 1162 Sixth Avenue .
`` Mr. Miller was in the shop '' , the Herald Tribune story related , `` but was reluctant to have anybody's picture taken inside , because his business was too ' confidential ' for pictures .
`` But after introductions he asked : ' Carl Sandburg ? ?
Well you can pose inside .
`` He wanted Mr. Sandburg to pose with one of the guitars he had displayed behind glass in the center of his shop , but the poet eyed this somewhat distastefully .
' Kalamazoo guitars ' , he said , ' used by radio hillbilly singers .
`` He chose one from Mr. Miller's window , a plain guitar with no fancy polish .
While the picture was taken , Mr. Miller's disposition to be generous to Mr. Sandburg increased to the point where he advised , ' I won't even charge you the one dollar rental fee ' '' .
A knowledgeable celebrity
When someone in the audience rose and asked how does it feel to be a celebrity , Carl said , `` A celebrity is a fellow who eats celery with celerity '' .
This has always been Carl's attitude .
Lloyd Lewis wrote that when he first knew Carl in 1916 , Sandburg was making $27.50 a week writing features for the Day Book and eating sparse luncheons in one-arm restaurants .
He walked home at night for two miles beyond the end of a suburban trolley .
When fame came it changed Sandburg only slightly .
Lewis remembered another newspaperman asking , `` Carl , have your ideas changed any since you got all these comforts '' ? ?
Carl thought the question over slowly and answered : `` I know a starving man who is fed never remembers all the pangs of his starvation , I know that '' .
That was all he said , Lewis reports .
That was all he had to say .
In answer to a New York Times query on what is fame ( `` Thoughts On Fame '' , October 23 , 1960 ) , Carl said : `` Fame is a figment of a pigment .
It comes and goes .
It changes with every generation .
There never were two fames alike .
One fame is precious and luminous ; ;
another is a bubble of a bauble '' .
`` Ah , did you once see Shelley plain '' ? ?
The impression you get from Carl Sandburg's home is one of laughter and happiness ; ;
and the laughter and the happiness are even more pronounced when no company is present .
Carl has been married to Paula for fifty-three years , and he has not made a single major decision without careful consideration and thorough discussion with his wife .
Through all these years , Mrs. Sandburg has pointedly avoided the limelight .
She has shared her husband's greatness , but only within the confines of their home ; ;
it is a dedication which began the moment she met Carl .
Mrs. Sandburg received a Phi Beta Kappa key from the University of Chicago and she was busy writing and teaching when she met Sandburg .
`` You are the ' Peoples' Poet ' '' was her appraisal in 1908 , and she stopped teaching and writing to devote herself to the fulfillment of her husband's career .
She has rarely been photographed with him and , except for Carl's seventy-fifth anniversary celebration in Chicago in 1953 , she has not attended the dozens of banquets , functions , public appearances , and dinners honoring him -- all of this upon her insistence .
Even now I will not intrude upon her except to state a few bare facts .
The only way to describe Paula Sandburg is to say she is beautiful in a Grecian sense .
Her clothes , her hair , everything about her is both graceful and simple .
She has small , broad , capable hands and an enormous energy .
She is not only a trained mathematician and Classicist , but a good architect .
She designed and supervised the building of the Harbert , Michigan , house , most of which was constructed by one local carpenter who carried the heavy beams singly upon his shoulder .
As the Sandburg goat herd increased , she also designed the barn alterations to accommodate them .
When erosion threatened the foundation of their home in Harbert , Paula Sandburg planted grapevines and arranged the snow fences which helped hold the sands away .
She was born Lilian Steichen , her parents immigrants from Luxemburg .
Her mother called her Paus'l , a Luxemburg endearment meaning `` pussycat '' .
Some of the children of the family could not pronounce this name and called her Paula , a soubriquet Carl liked so much she has been Paula ever since .
But neither was Lilian her baptismal name .
Her parents , pious Roman Catholics , christened her Mary Anne Elizabeth Magdalene Steichen .
`` My mother read a book right after I was born and there was a Lilian in the book she loved and I became Lilian -- and eventually I became Paula '' .
Lilian Steichen was an exceptional student .
This family of Luxemburg immigrants , in fact , produced two exceptional children .
Paula's older brother is Edward Steichen , a talented artist and , for the past half-century , one of the world's eminent photographers .
( Two years ago the photography editor of Vogue Magazine titled his article about Steichen , `` The World's Greatest Photographer '' .
)
By the time Lilian had been graduated from public school , her parents were doing quite well .
Her mother was a good manager and established a millinery business in Milwaukee .
But her father was not enthusiastic about sending young Paula to high school .
`` This is no place for a young girl '' , he said .
The parents compromised , however , on a convent school and Paula went to Ursuline Academy in London , Ontario .
She was pious , too , once kneeling through the night from Holy Thursday to Good Friday , despite the protest of the nuns that this was too much for a young girl .
She knelt out of reverence for having read the Meditations of St. Augustine .
She read everything else she could get her hands on , including an article ( she thinks it was in the Atlantic Monthly ) by Mark Twain on `` White Slavery '' .
Paula was saddened about what was happening to little girls and vowed to kneel no more in Chapel .
She had come to a decision .
If there was ever a thought in her mind she might devote her life to religion , it was now dispelled .
`` I felt that I must devote myself to the ' outside ' world '' .
She passed the entrance examinations to the University of Illinois , but during the year at Urbana felt more important events transpired at the University of Chicago .
`` And besides , Thorstein Veblen was one of the Chicago professors '' .
At the University of Chicago she studied Whitman and Shelley , and became a Socialist .
Socialist leaders in Milwaukee recognized her worth , not only because of her dedication but because of her fluency in German , French , and Luxemburg .
She once gave a German recitation before a convention of German-language teachers in Milwaukee .
Carl and Paula met in Milwaukee in 1907 during Paula's Christmas holiday visit to her parents .
Carl was still Charles A. Sandburg .
He `` legitimized '' Paula for Lilian Steichen , and it was Paula who insisted on Carl for Charles .
Victor Berger , the panjandrum of Wisconsin Socialism and member of Congress , had asked Paula Steichen to translate some of his German editorials into English .
Carl , who was stationed in Appleton , Wisconsin , organizing for the Social Democrats , was in Berger's office and made it his business to escort Paula to the streetcar .
She left the next day for her teaching job at Princeton , Illinois .
( After graduation from the University of Chicago , Paula taught for two years in the normal school at Valley City , North Dakota , then two years at Princeton ( Illinois ) Township High School .
) By the time the streetcar pulled away , he had fallen in love with Paula .
A letter awaited her at Princeton .
Paula says that even though Carl's letters usually began , `` Dear Miss Steichen '' , there was an understanding from the beginning that they would become husband and wife .
Paula generously lent me one of Carl's love letters , dated February 21 , 1908 , Hotel Athearn , Oshkosh , Wisconsin :
`` Dear Miss Steichen : It is a very good letter you send me -- softens the intensity of this guerilla warfare I am carrying on up here .
Never until in this work of S-D organization have I realized and felt the attitude and experience of a Teacher .
The United States is always ready to participate with the Soviet Union in serious discussion of these or any other subjects that may lead to peace with justice .
Certainly it is not necessary to repeat that the United States has no intention of interfering in the internal affairs of any nation ; ;
by the same token , we reject any Soviet attempt to impose its system on us or other peoples by force or subversion .
Now this concern for the freedom of other peoples is the intellectual and spiritual cement which has allied us with more than forty other nations in a common defense effort .
Not for a moment do we forget that our own fate is firmly fastened to that of these countries ; ;
we will not act in any way which would jeopardize our solemn commitments to them .
We and our friends are , of course , concerned with self-defense .
Growing out of this concern is the realization that all people of the Free World have a great stake in the progress , in freedom , of the uncommitted and newly emerging nations .
These peoples , desperately hoping to lift themselves to decent levels of living must not , by our neglect , be forced to seek help from , and finally become virtual satellites of , those who proclaim their hostility to freedom .
But they must have technical and investment assistance .
This is a problem to be solved not by America alone , but also by every nation cherishing the same ideals and in position to provide help .
In recent years America's partners and friends in Western Europe and Japan have made great economic progress .
The international economy of 1960 is markedly different from that of the early postwar years .
No longer is the United States the only major industrial country capable of providing substantial amounts of the resources so urgently needed in the newly developed countries .
To remain secure and prosperous themselves , wealthy nations must extend the kind of co-operation to the less fortunate members that will inspire hope , confidence , and progress .
A rich nation can for a time , without noticeable damage to itself , pursue a course of self-indulgence , making its single goal the material ease and comfort of its own citizens -- thus repudiating its own spiritual and material stake in a peaceful and prosperous society of nations .
But the enmities it will incur , the isolation into which it will descend , and the internal moral and spiritual softness that will be engendered , will , in the long term , bring it to economic and political disaster .
America did not become great through softness and self-indulgence .
Her miraculous progress in material achievements flows from other qualities far more worthy and substantial : adherence to principles and methods consonant with our religious philosophy ; ;
a satisfaction in hard work ; ;
the readiness to sacrifice for worthwhile causes ; ;
the courage to meet every challenge ; ;
the intellectual honesty and capacity to recognize the true path of her own best interests .
To us and to every nation of the Free World , rich or poor , these qualities are necessary today as never before if we are to march together to greater security , prosperity and peace .
I believe that the industrial countries are ready to participate actively in supplementing the efforts of the developing nations to achieve progress .
The immediate need for this kind of co-operation is underscored by the strain in this nation's international balance of payments .
Our surplus from foreign business transactions has in recent years fallen substantially short of the expenditures we make abroad to maintain our military establishments overseas , to finance private investment , and to provide assistance to the less developed nations .
In 1959 our deficit in balance of payments approached four billion dollars .
Continuing deficits of anything like this magnitude would , over time , impair our own economic growth and check the forward progress of the Free World .
We must meet this situation by promoting a rising volume of exports and world trade .
Further , we must induce all industrialized nations of the Free World to work together to help lift the scourge of poverty from less fortunate .
This co-operation in this matter will provide both for the necessary sharing of this burden and in bringing about still further increases in mutually profitable trade .
New Nations , and others struggling with the problems of development , will progress only -- regardless of any outside help -- if they demonstrate faith in their own destiny and use their own resources to fulfill it .
Moreover , progress in a national transformation can be only gradually earned ; ;
there is no easy and quick way to follow from the oxcart to the jet plane .
But , just as we drew on Europe for assistance in our earlier years , so now do these new and emerging nations that do have this faith and determination deserve help .
Respecting their need , one of the major focal points of our concern is the South-Asian region .
Here , in two nations alone , are almost five hundred million people , all working , and working hard , to raise their standards , and in doing so , to make of themselves a strong bulwark against the spread of an ideology that would destroy liberty .
I cannot express to you the depth of my conviction that , in our own and free world interest , we must co-operate with others to help these people achieve their legitimate ambitions , as expressed in their different multi-year plans .
Through the World Bank and other instrumentalities , as well as through individual action by every nation in position to help , we must squarely face this titanic challenge .
I shall continue to urge the American people , in the interests of their own security , prosperity and peace , to make sure that their own part of this great project be amply and cheerfully supported .
Free world decisions in this matter may spell the difference between world disaster and world progress in freedom .
Other countries , some of which I visited last month , have similar needs .
A common meeting ground is desirable for those nations which are prepared to assist in the development effort .
During the past year I have discussed this matter with the leaders of several Western nations .
Because of its wealth of experience , the Organization for European Economic Cooperation could help with the initial studies needed .
The goal is to enlist all available economic resources in the industrialized Free World , especially private investment capital .
By extending this help , we hope to make possible the enthusiastic enrollment of these nations under freedom's banner .
No more startling contrast to a system of sullen satellites could be imagined .
If we grasp this opportunity to build an age of productive partnership between the less fortunate nations and those that have already achieved a high state of economic advancement , we will make brighter the outlook for a world order based upon security and freedom .
Otherwise , the outlook could be dark indeed .
We face , indeed , what may be a turning point in history , and we must act decisively and wisely .
As a nation we can successfully pursue these objectives only from a position of broadly based strength .
No matter how earnest is our quest for guaranteed peace , we must maintain a high degree of military effectiveness at the same time we are engaged in negotiating the issue of arms reduction .
Until tangible and mutually enforceable arms reduction measures are worked out we will not weaken the means of defending our institutions .
America possesses an enormous defense power .
It is my studied conviction that no nation will ever risk general war against us unless we should become so foolish as to neglect the defense forces we now so powerfully support .
It is world-wide knowledge that any power which might be tempted today to attack the United States by surprise , even though we might sustain great losses , would itself promptly suffer a terrible destruction .
But I once again assure all peoples and all nations that the United States , except in defense , will never turn loose this destructive power .
During the past year , our long-range striking power , unmatched today in manned bombers , has taken on new strength as the Atlas intercontinental ballistic missile has entered the operational inventory .
In fourteen recent test launchings , at ranges of five thousand miles , Atlas has been striking on an average within two miles of the target .
This is less than the length of a jet runway -- well within the circle of destruction .
Incidentally , there was an Atlas firing last night .
From all reports so far received , its performance conformed to the high standards I have just described .
Such performance is a great tribute to American scientists and engineers , who in the past five years have had to telescope time and technology to develop these long-range ballistic missiles , where America had none before .
This year , moreover , growing numbers of nuclear powered submarines will enter our active forces , some to be armed with Polaris missiles .
These remarkable ships and weapons , ranging the oceans , will be capable of accurate fire on targets virtually anywhere on earth .
To meet situations of less than general nuclear war , we continue to maintain our carrier forces , our many service units abroad , our always ready Army strategic forces and Marine Corps divisions , and the civilian components .
The continuing modernization of these forces is a costly but necessary process .
It is scheduled to go forward at a rate which will steadily add to our strength .
The deployment of a portion of these forces beyond our shores , on land and sea , is persuasive demonstration of our determination to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our allies for collective security .
Moreover , I have directed that steps be taken to program on a longer range basis our military assistance to these allies .
This is necessary for a sounder collective defense system .
Next I refer to our program in space exploration , which is often mistakenly supposed to be an integral part of defense research and development .
We note that , first , America has already made great contributions in the past two years to the world's fund of knowledge of astrophysics and space science .
These discoveries are of present interest chiefly to the scientific community ; ;
but they are important foundation stones for more extensive exploration of outer space for the ultimate benefit of all mankind .
Second , our military missile program , going forward so successfully , does not suffer from our present lack of very large rocket engines , which are necessary in distant space exploration .
I am assured by experts that the thrust of our present missiles is fully adequate for defense requirements .
Third , the United States is pressing forward in the development of large rocket engines to place vehicles of many tons into space for exploration purposes .
Fourth , in the meantime , it is necessary to remember that we have only begun to probe the environment immediately surrounding the earth .
Using launch systems presently available , we are developing satellites to scout the world's weather ; ;
satellite relay stations to facilitate and extend communications over the globe ; ;
for navigation aids to give accurate bearings to ships and aircraft ; ;
and for perfecting instruments to collect and transmit the data we seek .
Fifth , we have just completed a year's experience with our new space law .
I believe it deficient in certain particulars .
Suggested improvements will be submitted to the Congress shortly .
The accomplishment of the many tasks I have alluded to requires the continuous strengthening of the spiritual , intellectual , and economic sinews of American life .
The steady purpose of our society is to assure justice , before God , for every individual .
We must be ever alert that freedom does not wither through the careless amassing of restrictive controls or the lack of courage to deal boldly with the issues of the day .
A year ago , when I met with you , the nation was emerging from an economic downturn , even though the signs of resurgent prosperity were not then sufficiently convincing to the doubtful .
Today our surging strength is apparent to everyone .
1960 promises to be the most prosperous year in our history .
Yet we continue to be afflicted by nagging disorders .
Among current problems that require solutions , participated in by citizens as well as government , are :
the need to protect the public interest in situations of prolonged labor-management stalemate ; ;
the persistent refusal to come to grips with a critical problem in one sector of American agriculture ; ;
the continuing threat of inflation , together with the persisting tendency toward fiscal irresponsibility ; ;
in certain instances the denial to some of our citizens of equal protection of the law .
The group , upon the issuance of its first press release on December 21 , 1957 , designated itself a `` Committee of Investigation '' .
In the course of its inquiry , it took testimony from only seven witnesses .
It heard Bang-Jensen twice and his lawyer , Adolf A. Berle , Jr. , once .
Its second press release was on January 15 , 1958 , and it recommended that the secret papers be destroyed .
It also implied that Paul Bang-Jensen had been irresponsible .
On January 18 , Ernest Gross conducted a press conference at the U.N. lasting an hour .
Here , he openly attacked Bang-Jensen and referred to his `` aberrant conduct '' .
This conference was held despite Stavropoulos' assurance to Adolf Berle , who was leaving the same day for Puerto Rico , that nothing would be done until his return on January 22 , except that the Secretary General would probably order the list destroyed .
On January 24 Paul Bang-Jensen , accompanied by Adolf Berle , was met by Dragoslav Protitch and Colonel Frank Begley , former Police Chief of Farmington , Conn. , and now head of U.N. special police .
The four , bundled in overcoats , mounted to the wind-swept roof of the U.N.
There , Begley lit a fire in a wire basket , and Bang-Jensen dropped four sealed envelopes into the flames .
In one of these he said were notes on the identities of the eighty-one refugees .
The method of destroying the evidence embarrassed Paul Bang-Jensen .
He knew it would be implied that it was done in this way at his insistence .
He was right , and Peter Marshall could not help but recall Andrew Cordier's words on the subject , `` Well , it seemed as good a place as any to do the job '' .
The Gross group had been formed for the express purpose of advising the Secretary General .
Hammarskjold's supposed desire to seek outside legal advice in the guise of Ernest Gross is illusion , at best .
Gross's , being `` outside '' the U.N. applied only to a physical state , not an objective one .
But by the time the papers were finally disposed of , the group had informed the world of its purpose , its recommendations , and its belief that Paul Bang-Jensen was not of sound mind .
Shortly the group would issue its report to the Secretary General , recommending Paul Bang-Jensen's dismissal from the United Nations .
The contents of this 195-page document would become known to many before it would become known to the man it was written about .
`` Until this Hungarian Committee matter came up , Bang-Jensen was a fine and devoted individual .
I had known him for some years , when I was a delegate and before , and this manner had never been his '' .
Ernest A. Gross leaned back in his chair and told Peter Marshall how Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold had , on December 4 , 1957 , called him in as a private lawyer to review Bang-Jensen's conduct `` relating to his association with the Special Committee on the problem of Hungary '' .
The result was the `` Gross Report '' , prepared by Gross , as chairman , with the assistance of two U.N. Under Secretaries , Constantin Stavropoulos and Philippe De Seynes .
`` Yes '' , Gross went on , `` Bang-Jensen was an up-and-coming young man .
He had always done well .
Never well known , but he had done his work competently .
''
Gross had received Marshall courteously and they were discussing the case .
`` You know '' , the lawyer said , `` it's difficult to talk like this about a man who can't answer back '' .
Gross was behind a clean-top desk , only a manila folder before him .
Marshall sat in one of the several leather chairs .
Outside the office windows , twenty-four stories above Wall Street , a light rain was falling .
`` Mr. Gross , your report says that ' our function is investigative and advisory and does not in any way derogate from or prejudice Mr. Bang-Jensen's rights as a staff member .
You know , Bang-Jensen characterized your Committee as having prejudged his case '' .
Gross swung his swivel chair .
`` Well , how could that have been ? ?
I don't consider that he was prejudged .
We were given a job and we carried it out , and later , his case was taken up by the Disciplinary Committee .
`` We have nothing to hide under a bushel .
We did our job , Mr. Stavropoulos and Mr. De Seynes and myself , taking evidence from a number of people '' .
`` What did you think about his mental state '' ? ?
`` I think our report sums up our finding '' , Gross answered .
`` Don't forget , here was a man who had been accusing his colleagues for almost a year of willfully attempting to present an incorrect report .
`` This was not merely alleging errors , but was carried out by day-after-day allegations in memos , written charges of serious consequence .
`` This is a distressing thing .
Supposing you or I were being accused in this manner , and yet we were doing our level best to carry on our work .
No organization can carry on like that .
`` I've been in government and I can tell some pretty hairy stories about personnel difficulties , so I know what a problem he was '' .
`` What I'd like you to comment on is the criticism leveled at your Committee '' .
`` What do you mean '' ? ?
`` For instance , regarding the fact that the Gross Committee issued two interim announcements to the press during its investigation .
You know Bang-Jensen was told the Committee was ' to convey its views , suggestions and recommendations to the Secretary General .
In his own words , Bang-Jensen ' took it for granted that the Group would report to the Secretary General privately and not in public .
He claimed that the release of the preliminary findings was ' prejudicial to his position ' '' .
Gross bristled .
For an instant he glared speechless at Marshall .
`` Listen '' , he said .
`` I thought the entire report was going to be confidential from beginning to end .
But you know Bang-Jensen launched an active campaign against us in the press .
It was getting so that we , the Committee , were being tried .
You can find it in the papers '' .
`` Well , as a matter of fact , I've looked through back-issue files of New York papers for December , 1957 , and haven't found a great deal '' --
Gross shot another look at Marshall .
`` It wasn't necessarily all here in New York .
Don't forget the foreign press '' .
`` Then what about the second interim public announcement ? ?
This cited Bang-Jensen's ' aberrant conduct ' '' .
`` The reason for that report was to settle the matter of the list .
As far as I'm concerned , it was a separate matter from the general Committee study of Bang-Jensen's conduct .
The January fifteen report recommended that Bang-Jensen be instructed to burn the list -- the papers -- in the presence of a U.N. Security Officer '' .
`` How about your press conference three days later -- what was the reason for that ? ?
Bang-Jensen said you told correspondents that you had checked in advance to make sure the term ' aberrant conduct ' was not libelous .
He claimed you made other slanderous allegations '' .
Gross paused and repeated himself .
`` The entire object of the press conference was to clarify the problem of the list , since many in the press were querying the U.N. about it .
What was the list ? ?
I don't know .
Bang-Jensen never explained what the documents or papers were that he had in his possession .
`` It was foolish of him to keep them , whatever they were .
He could have been blackmailed , or his family might have been threatened .
Of course the matter caught the public's attention .
We attempted to conclude this , and did so by having the papers burned .
Hammarskjold didn't like the way it was carried out .
It was a sort of Gotterdammerung affair .
Hammarskjold believes the U.N. is an organization that settles matters in a procedural way .
''
Peter Marshall reflected .
If Hammarskjold had not wanted the list disposed of in this manner , and if Bang-Jensen had not wanted it -- who had ordered it ? ?
`` Mr. Gross , concerning the formation of your Committee , there's the fact that you have been a legal adviser to the U.N. in the past ; ;
as I understand it , Mr. Hammarskjold wanted outside advice .
Could you comment on that '' ? ?
`` I've served as a counsel for the U.N. for some years , specializing particularly in real estate matters or other problems that the regular U.N. legal staff might not be equipped to handle .
Mr. Stavropoulos is the U.N. legal chief and a very good man , but he is not fully versed on some technical points of American law '' .
`` What did you think about Bang-Jensen's contention of errors and omissions in the Hungarian report '' ? ?
Marshall asked .
`` Those '' ! !
Gross answered .
`` Why , Mick Shann went over and over the report with Alsing Andersen , trying to check them out .
Even after the incident between Bang-Jensen and Shann in the Delegates' Lounge and this was not the way the Chicago Tribune presented it '' .
Gross reached in his desk and pulled out two newspaper clippings .
One was an article on the U.N. by Alice Widener from the Cincinnati Enquirer .
The other was by Chesly Manley in the Chicago Daily Tribune .
Gross pointed to the Manley story .
`` I know Ches , he's a friend of mine .
He probably didn't mean to write it this way , or maybe he did .
There wasn't any ' violent argument ' between Bang-Jensen and Shann , as the Tribune puts it .
That implies that Shann was on the enemy side .
You see what I mean ? ?
How it's phrased there -- the word violent .
`` The case was that Bang-Jensen came up to Shann claiming he had found further errors in the report .
' I've found errors and I want you to look them over .
So once again Shann had to argue with him about this .
But it wasn't a violent discussion .
And after all this , Shann went over all that Bang-Jensen had brought up '' .
( Shann's own report , Peter Marshall reflected , describes the encounter as `` immoderate '' .
Bang-Jensen was in `` hysterical condition '' .
)
Gross stopped briefly , then went on .
`` Shann was responsible for the report .
He has felt terrible about all this .
It was a good report , he did all he could to make it a good report .
When I speak of how Shann felt , I know well .
Don't forget , I am an old member of the club , a former delegate .
I think you are being unfair to take these things up now .
`` You know , this hits in many areas .
It appeals to those who were frustrated in the outcome of the Hungarian situation .
Don't forget , the U.N. did no more than the United States did .
It takes a great deal of sophisticated thought to get the impact of this fact '' .
Chapter 22
from the home of his friend , Henrik Kauffmann , in Washington , D.C. , Paul Bang-Jensen sent a telegram dated December 9 , 1957 , to Ernest Gross .
It said in part :
`` the matters to be considered are obviously of a grave character , and I therefore respectfully request that the hearing be postponed for two weeks in order that I might make adequate preparation '' .
Ernest Gross replied the next day , putting the suspended diplomat's fears to rest .
`` This reveals some misunderstanding on your part .
The group conducting the review is not holding formal hearings .
It wished to pursue , in the course of this review , questions arising from the body of material already in its possession .
''
It sounded like a fair enough invitation , Peter Marshall reflected , and Bang-Jensen must have thought so too , because on the thirteenth , he met the group of three on the thirty-sixth floor of the U.N. .
There , Ernest Gross further assured him :
`` We were requested by the Secretary General , as I understand it , to discuss with you such matters as appear to us to be relevant , and we are not of course either a formal group or a committee in the sense of being guided by any rules or regulations of the Secretariat .
The only rules which I think we shall follow will be those of common sense , justice , and fairness '' .
Peter Marshall noted that Bang-Jensen had later referred to his two interviews with the Gross group as `` unfortunate experiences '' , and after his second meeting on the sixteenth the Dane refused to attend further hearings without legal counsel .
Marshall pondered the reason for this , and pondered too the replacement of one member of the three-man group .
J. A. C. Robertson , after serving Gross one week , left for England .
Fortunately the hole was found at last and plugged .
Another week passed and even the missionaries were enjoying the voyage .
The sickness was gone and , after all , the two young couples were on their honeymoon .
The only lasting difficulty was the food .
In spite of Pickering Dodge's explicit instructions regarding variation of meals , the food did not seem the same as at home .
`` Everything tasted differently from what it does on land and those things I was most fond of at home , I loathed the most here '' , Ann noted .
At last they concluded that the heavy , full feeling in their stomachs was due to lack of exercise .
Walking was the remedy , they decided , but a deck full of chicken coops and pigpens was hardly suitable .
Skipping was the alternative .
A rope was found and , like children in school , the missionaries skipped for hours at a time .
Finally , tiring of so monotonous a form of exercise , they decided to dance instead .
It was much more fun , reminding the girls of their old carefree days in the Hasseltine frolics room at Bradford .
The weather turned warmer and with it came better appetites , although Harriet was still a little off-color .
She could not face coffee or tea without milk , and was always craving types of food that were not available aboard a sailing ship .
By now she was sure she was going to have a baby , deciding it would be born in India or Burma that November .
She was more excited than frightened at the prospect of having her first child in a foreign land .
The crew of the Caravan never failed to amaze Ann , who during her stay in Salem must frequently have overheard strong sailorly language .
She wrote in her journal , `` I have not heard the least profane language since I have been on board the vessel .
This is very uncommon '' .
She was now enjoying the voyage very much .
Even the first wave of homesickness had passed , although there were moments when Captain Heard pointed out on his compass the direction of Bradford that she felt a little twinge at her heart .
As for Adoniram , she found him to be `` the kindest '' of husbands .
On Sundays , with the permission of Captain Heard , who usually attended with two of his officers , services were held in the double cabin .
Sometimes a ship would be sighted and the Caravan pass so close that people could easily be seen on the distant deck .
Captain Heard did not communicate with any strange vessels because of the possibility of war between the United States and Britain .
As warmer temperatures were encountered Ann and Harriet were introduced to the pleasures of bathing daily in salt water .
When May came the Caravan had already crossed the Equator .
They were sailing round the Cape of Good Hope ; ;
the weather had turned wet and cold .
At this time Harriet wrote in a letter which after their finally landing in India was sent to her mother :
`` I care not how soon we reach Calcutta , and are placed in a still room , with a bowl of milk and a loaf of Indian bread .
I can hardly think of this simple fare without exclaiming , oh , what a luxury .
I have been so weary of the excessive rocking of the vessel , and the almost intolerable smell after the rain , that I have done little more than lounge on the bed for several days .
But I have been blest with excellent spirits , and to-day have been running about the deck , and dancing in our room for exercise , as well as ever '' .
While studying at the seminary in Andover , Adoniram had been working on a New Testament translation from the original Greek .
He had brought it along to continue during the voyage .
There was one particular word that troubled his conscience .
This was the Greek word most often translated as `` baptism '' .
Born a Congregationalist , he had been baptized as a tiny baby in the usual manner by having a few drops of water sprinkled on his head , yet nowhere in the whole of the New Testament could he find a description of anybody being baptized by sprinkling .
John the Baptist used total immersion in the River Jordan for believers ; ;
even Christ was baptized by this method .
The more Adoniram looked at the Greek word for baptism , the more unhappy he became over its true meaning .
As was only natural he confided his searchings to Ann , conceding ruefully that it certainly looked as if their own Congregationalists were wrong and the Baptists right .
Ann was very troubled .
By this time she had learned that it was futile to argue with her young husband , yet the uncomfortable fact remained : the American Congregationalists were sending them as missionaries to the Far East and paying their salaries .
What would happen if Adoniram `` changed horses in midstream '' ? ?
Baptists and Congregationalists in New England were on friendly terms .
How embarrassing it would be if the newly appointed Congregationalist missionaries should suddenly switch their own beliefs in order to embrace Baptist teachings ! !
`` If you become a Baptist , I will not '' , Ann informed her husband , but sweeping her threat aside Adoniram continued to search for an answer to the personal dilemma in which he found himself .
By early June they were a hundred miles off the coast of Ceylon , by which time all four missionaries were hardened seafarers .
Even Harriet could boldly write , `` I know not how it is ; ;
but I hear the thunder roll ; ;
see the lightning flash ; ;
and the waves threatening to swallow up the vessel ; ;
and yet remain unmoved '' .
Ann thrilled to the sight of a delicate butterfly and two strange tropical birds .
Land was near , and on June 12 , one hundred and fourteen days after leaving America , they actually saw , twenty miles away , the coast of Orissa .
Captain Heard gave orders for the ship to be anchored in the Bay of Bengal until he could obtain the services of a reputable pilot to steer her through the shallow waters .
Sometimes ships waited for days for such a man , but Captain Heard was lucky .
Next day a ship arrived with an English pilot , his leadsman , an English youth , and the first Hindu the Judsons and Newells had ever seen .
A little man with a `` a dark copper color '' skin , he was wearing `` calico trousers and a white cotton short gown '' .
Ann was plainly disappointed in his appearance .
`` He looks as feminine as you can imagine '' , she decided .
The pilot possessed excellent skill at his calling ; ;
all day long the Caravan slowly made her way through the difficult passages .
Alas , to Ann's consternation , his language while thus employed left much to be desired .
He swore so loudly at the top of his voice , that she didn't get any sleep all the next night .
Next morning the Caravan was out of the treacherous Bay .
Relieved of the major part of his responsibility for the safety of the ship , the pilot's oaths became fewer .
Slowly she moved up the Hooghli River , a mouth of the mighty Ganges , toward Calcutta .
Ann was entranced with the view , as were her husband and friends .
Running across the deck , which was empty now that the livestock had been killed and eaten , they sniffed the spice-laden breezes that came from the shore , each pointing out new and exciting wonders to the other .
Out came the journal and in it went Ann's own description of the scene :
`` On each side of the Hoogli , where we are now sailing , are the Hindoo cottages , as thick together as the houses in our seaports .
They are very small , and in the form of haystacks , without either chimney or windows .
They are situated in the midst of trees , which hang over them , and appear truly romantick .
The grass and fields of rice are perfectly green , and herds of cattle are everywhere feeding on the banks of the river , and the natives are scattered about differently employed .
Some are fishing , some driving the team , and many are sitting indolently on the banks of the river .
The pagodas we have passed are much larger than the houses '' .
Harriet was just as delighted .
Where were the hardships she had expected ? ?
She was certain now that it would be no harder to bear her child here in such pleasant surroundings than at home in the big white house in Haverhill .
With childlike innocence she wrote of the Indians as `` walking with fruit and umbrellas in their hands , with the tawny children around them .
This is the most delightful trial I have ever had '' , she decided .
The Indians who came aboard ship to collect the mail also interested her greatly , even if she was suitably shocked , according to the customs of the society in which she had been reared , to find them `` naked , except a piece of cotton cloth wrapped around their middle '' .
At last they saw Calcutta , largest city of Bengal and the Caravan's destination .
Founded August 24 , 1690 by Job Charnock of the East India Company , and commonly called `` The City of Palaces '' , it seemed a vast and elegant place to Ann Hasseltine Judson .
Solid brick buildings painted dazzling white , large domes and tall , picturesque palms stretched as far as the eye could see , while the wharves and harbor were filled with tall-masted sailing ships .
The noise stunned her .
Crowds flocked through the waterfront streets chattering loudly in their strange-sounding Bengali tongue .
Harriet's mouth watered with anticipation when after months of dreaming she sat down at last to her much-craved milk and fresh bread .
Ann , pleased to see her friend happy , was intrigued by the new fruits a friend of Captain Heard had sent on board for their enjoyment .
Cautiously she sampled her first pineapple and another fruit whose taste she likened to that of `` a rich pear '' .
Though she did not then know its name , this strange new fruit was a banana .
Six
The first act of Adoniram and Samuel on reaching Calcutta was to report at the police station , a necessity when landing in East India Company territory .
On the way they tried to discover all they could about Burma , and they were disturbed to find that Michael Symes's book had not presented an altogether true picture .
He had failed to realize that the Burmese were not really treating him as the important visitor he considered himself .
They were in fact quietly laughing at him , for their King wished to have nothing to do with the Western world .
When Captain John Gibault of Salem had visited Burma in 1793 his ship , the Astra , had been promptly commandeered and taken by her captors up the Irrawaddy River .
Although after much trouble he did manage to get it back , he discovered there was no trade to be had .
All Captain Gibault took back to Salem were a few items for the town's East India Museum .
A year later another Salem ship returned from Burma with a cargo of gum lacquer which nobody wanted to buy .
After that Salem ships decided to bypass unfriendly Burma .
The Burmese appeared to have little knowledge of British power or any idea of trade .
They despised foreigners .
Cruel Burmese governors could , on the slightest whim , take a man's life .
As for missionaries , even if they succeeded in getting into the country they probably would not be allowed to preach the Christian faith to the Burmans .
Unspeakable tortures or even execution might well be their fate .
`` Go back to America or any other place '' , well-meaning friends of Captain Heard advised them , `` but put thoughts of going to Burma out of your heads '' .
Somewhat daunted , the two American missionaries reached the police station where they were questioned by a most unfriendly clerk .
When he discovered they had received from the Company's Court of Directors no permission to live in India , coupled with the fact that they were Americans who had been sent to Asia to convert `` the heathen '' , he became more belligerent than ever .
They explained that they desired only to stop in India until a ship traveling on to Burma could be found .
She describes , first , the imaginary reaction of a foreigner puzzled by this `` unseasonable exultation '' ; ;
he is answered by a confused , honest Englishman .
The reasons for the Whig joy on this occasion are found to be their expectation of regaining control of the government , their delight at the prospect of a new war , their hopes of having the Tories hanged , and so on .
As for the author of the Englishman , Mrs. Manley sarcastically deplores that the sole defense of the Protestant cause should be left to `` Ridpath , Dick Steele , and their Associates , with the Apostles of Young Man's Coffee-House '' .
Another controversy typical of the war between the Englishman and the Examiner centered on Robert ( later Viscount ) Molesworth , a Whig leader in Ireland and a member of the Irish Privy Council .
On December 21 , the day that the Irish House of Commons petitioned for removal of Sir Constantine Phipps , their Tory Lord Chancellor , Molesworth reportedly made this remark on the defense of Phipps by Convocation : `` They that have turned the world upside down , are come hither also '' .
Upon complaints from the Lower House of Convocation to the House of Lords , he was removed from the Privy Council , his remark having been represented as a blasphemous affront to the clergy .
Steele , who had earlier praised Molesworth in Tatler No. 189 , now defended him in Englishman No. 46 , depicting his removal as a setback to the Constitution .
On the other hand , Molesworth was naturally assailed in the Tory press .
Swift , in the Dublin edition of A Preface to the Bishop of Sarum's Introduction , indicated his feelings by including Molesworth , along with Toland , Tindal , and Collins , in the group of those who , like Burnet , are engaged in attacking all Convocations of the clergy .
In the same way he coupled Molesworth and Wharton in a letter to Archbishop King , and he had earlier described him as `` the worst of them '' in some `` Observations '' on the Irish Privy Council submitted to Oxford .
A month later , in The Publick Spirit Of The Whigs , he used Steele's defense of Molesworth as evidence of his disrespect for the clergy , calling Steele's position an affront to the `` whole Convocation of Ireland '' .
On this issue , then , as on so many in these months , Steele and Swift took rigidly opposed points of view .
In the early months of 1714 , the battle between Swift and Steele over the issue of the Succession entered its major phase .
The preliminaries ended with the publication of Steele's Crisis on January 19 , and from that point on the fight proceeded at a rapid pace .
In answer to The Crisis , Swift produced The Publick Spirit Of The Whigs , his most extensive and bitter attack on his old friend .
By this time , as we shall see , the Tories were already planning to `` punish '' Steele for his political writing by expelling him from the House of Commons .
Despite his defense of himself in the final paper of the Englishman and in his speech before the House , their efforts were successful .
Steele lost his seat in Parliament , and his personal quarrel with Swift , by now a public issue , thus reached its climax .
Of all the Whig tracts written in support of the Succession , The Crisis is perhaps the most significant .
Certainly it is the most pretentious and elaborate .
Hanoverian agents assisted in promoting circulation , said to have reached 40,000 , and if one may judge by the reaction of Swift and other government writers , the work must have had considerable impact .
Steele's main business here is to arouse public opinion to the immediate danger of a Stuart Restoration .
To this end , the first and longest section of the tract cites all the laws enacted since the Revolution to defend England against the `` Arbitrary Power of a Popish Prince '' .
In his comment on these laws Steele sounds all the usual notes of current Whig propaganda , ranging from a criticism of the Tory peace to an attack on the dismissal of Marlborough ; ;
but his principal theme is that the intrigues of the Tories , `` our Popish or Jacobite Party '' , pose an immediate threat to Church and State .
Like Burnet , he deplores the indifference of the people in the face of the crisis .
Treasonable books striking at the Hanoverian Succession , he complains , are allowed to pass unnoticed .
In this connection , Swift , too , is drawn in for attack : `` The Author of The Conduct Of The Allies has dared to drop Insinuations about altering the Succession '' .
In his effort to stir the public from its lethargy , Steele goes so far as to list Catholic atrocities of the sort to be expected in the event of a Stuart Restoration , and , with rousing rhetoric , he asserts that the only preservation from these `` Terrours '' is to be found in the laws he has so tediously cited .
`` It is no time '' , he writes , `` to talk with Hints and Innuendos , but openly and honestly to profess our Sentiments before our Enemies have compleated and put their Designs in Execution against us '' .
Steele apparently professed his sentiments in this book too openly and honestly for his own good , since the government was soon to use it as evidence against him in his trial before the House .
In the final issues of the Englishman , which ended just as the new session of Parliament began , he provided his enemies with still more ammunition .
For example , No. 56 printed the patent giving the Electoral Prince the title of Duke of Cambridge .
In a few months the Duke was to be the center of a controversy of some significance on the touchy question of the Protestant Succession .
At the order of the Dowager Electress , the Hanoverian agents , supported by the Whig leaders , demanded that a writ of summons be issued which would call the Duke to England to sit in Parliament , thus further insuring the Succession by establishing a Hanoverian Prince in England before the Queen's death .
Anne was furious , and Bolingbroke advised that the request be refused .
Oxford , realizing that the law required the issuance of the writ , took the opposite view , for which the Queen never forgave him .
Accordingly the request was granted , but the Elector himself , who had not been consulted by his mother , rejected the proposal and recalled his agent Schutz , whose impolitic handling of the affair had caused the Hanoverian interest to suffer and had made Oxford's dismissal more likely than ever .
Steele in this paper is indicating his sympathy for such a plan .
A few days after this Englishman appeared , Defoe reported to Oxford that Steele was expected to move in Parliament that the Duke be called over ; ;
Defoe then commented , `` If they Could Draw that young Gentleman into Their Measures They would show themselves quickly , for they are not asham'd to Say They want only a head to Make a beginning '' .
The final issue of the Englishman , No. 57 for February 15 , ran to some length and was printed as a separate pamphlet , entitled The Englishman : Being the Close of the Paper So-called .
Steele's purpose is to present a general defense of his political writing and a resume of the themes which had occupied him in the Englishman ; ;
but there is much here also which bears directly on his personal quarrel with Swift .
Thus he complains , with considerable justice , that the Tory writers have resorted to libel instead of answering his arguments .
His birth , education , and fortune , he says , have all been ridiculed simply because he has spoken with the freedom of an Englishman , and he assures the reader that `` whoever talks with me , is speaking to a Gentleman born '' .
As notable examples of this abuse , he quotes passages from the Examiner , `` that Destroyer of all things '' , and The Character of Richard Steele , which he here attributes to Swift .
Though put in rather maudlin terms , Steele's defense of himself has a reasonable basis .
His point is simply that the Tories have showered him with personal satire , despite the fact that as a private subject he has a right to speak on political matters without affronting the prerogative of the Sovereign .
He claims , too , that his political convictions are simply those which are called `` Revolution Principles '' and which are accepted by moderate men in both parties .
The final section of this pamphlet is of special interest in a consideration of Steele's relations with Swift .
It purports to be a letter from Steele to a friend at court , who , in Miss Blanchard's opinion , could only be meant as Swift .
Steele first answers briefly the charges which his `` dear old Friend '' has made about his pamphlet on Dunkirk and his Crisis .
Then he launches into an attack on the Tory ministers , whom he calls the `` New Converts '' ; ;
by this term he means to ridicule their professions of acting in the interest of the Church despite their own education and manner of life -- a gibe , in other words , at the `` Presbyterianism '' in Harley's family and at Bolingbroke's reputed impiety .
The Tory leaders , he insinuates , are cynically using the Church as a political `` By-word '' to increase party friction and keep themselves in power .
This is the principal point made in this final section of Englishman No. 57 , and it caps Steele's efforts in his other writing of these months to counteract the notion of the Tories as a `` Church Party '' supported by the body of the clergy .
Next , Steele turns his attention to the `` Courtier '' he is addressing .
He explains that there are sometimes honorable courtiers , but that too often a man who succeeds at court does not hesitate to sacrifice his Sovereign and nation to his own avarice and ambition .
Such , he implies , is the case with his friend , who is not really a new convert himself but merely a favorer of new converts .
If `` Jack the Courtier '' is really to be taken as Swift , the following remark is obviously Steele's comment on Swift's change of parties and its effect on their friendship : `` I assure you , dear Jack , when I first found out such an Allay in you , as makes you of so malleable a Constitution , that you may be worked into any Form an Artificer pleases , I foresaw I should not enjoy your Favour much longer '' .
He closes his `` letter '' by demanding that Dunkirk be demolished , that the Pretender be forced to move farther away from the coast of England , and that the Queen and the House of Hanover come to a better understanding .
The last point was soon to be included in the `` seditious '' remarks used against him in Parliament .
The Examiner , during Steele's trial a month later , printed an answer from the `` Courtier '' addressed to `` R. S. '' at Button's coffee-house .
He reviews Steele's entrance into politics and finds that his present difficulties are due to his habit of attributing to his own abilities and talents achievements which more properly should be credited to the indulgence of his friends .
Once more , in other words , Steele is said to be indebted to Swift for his `` wit '' ; ;
this was the form in which their private feud most often appeared in the Tory press , especially the Examiner .
In The Publick Spirit of the Whigs , it may be noted , Swift himself contemptuously dismissed Steele's reference to his friend at court : `` I suppose by the Style of old Friend , and the like , it must be some Body there of his own Level ; ;
among whom , his Party have indeed more Friends than I could wish '' .
On February 16 , Steele took his seat in Parliament .
By now he was undergoing a fresh torrent of abuse from Tory papers and pamphlets , and action was being taken to effect his punishment by expulsion from Parliament .
On the very day that the parliamentary session began , another `` Infamous Libel '' appeared , entitled A Letter From The Facetious Dr. Andrew Tripe , At Bath , To The Venerable Nestor Ironside .
It is filled with the usual personal abuse of Steele , especially of his physical appearance ; ;
in the opening paragraph , too , Steele is accused of extreme egotism , of giving `` himself the preference to all the learned , his contemporaries , from Dr. Swift himself , even down to Poet Cr--spe of the Customhouse '' .
When Harold Arlen returned to California in the winter of 1944 , it was to take up again a collaboration with Johnny Mercer , begun some years before .
The film they did after his return was an inconsequential bit of nothing titled Out Of This World , a satire on the Sinatra bobby-soxer craze .
The twist lay in using Bing Crosby's voice on the sound track while leading man Eddie Bracken mouthed the words .
If nothing else , at least two good songs came out of the project , `` Out Of This World '' and `` June Comes Around Every Year '' .
Though they would produce some very memorable and lasting songs , Arlen and Mercer were not given strong material to work on .
Their first collaboration came close .
Early in 1941 they were assigned to a script titled Hot Nocturne .
It purported to be a reasonably serious attempt at a treatment of jazz musicians , their aims , their problems -- the tug-of-war between the `` pure '' and the `` commercial '' -- and seemed a promising vehicle , for the two men shared a common interest in jazz .
Johnny Mercer practically grew up with the sound of jazz and the blues in his ears .
He was born in Savannah , Georgia , in 1909 .
His father , George A. Mercer , was descended from an honored Southern family that could trace its ancestry back to one Hugh Mercer , who had emigrated from Scotland in 1747 .
The lyricist's father was a lawyer who had branched out into real estate .
His second wife , Lillian , was the mother of John H. Mercer .
By the age of six young Johnny indicated that he had the call .
One day he followed the Irish Jasper Greens , the town band , to a picnic and spent the entire day listening , while his family spent the day looking .
The disappearance caused his family to assign a full-time maid to keeping an eye on the boy .
But one afternoon Mrs. Mercer met her ; ;
both were obviously on the way to the Mercer home .
The mother inquired , `` Where's Johnny , and why did you leave him '' ? ?
`` There was nothing else I could do '' , the maid answered , satisfied with a rather vague explanation .
But Mrs. Mercer demanded more .
The maid then told her , `` Because he fired me '' .
With her son evidencing so strong a musical bent his mother could do little else but get him started on the study of music -- though she waited until he was ten -- beginning with the piano and following that with the trumpet .
Young Mercer showed a remarkable lack of aptitude for both instruments .
Still , he did like music making and even sang in the chapel choir of the Woodberry Forest School , near Orange , Virginia , where he sounded fine but did not matriculate too well .
When he was fifteen John H. Mercer turned out his first song , a jazzy little thing he called `` Sister Susie , Strut Your Stuff '' .
If his scholarship and formal musicianship were not all they might have been , Mercer demonstrated at an early age that he was gifted with a remarkable ear for rhythm and dialect .
From his playmates in Savannah , Mercer had picked up , along with a soft Southern dialect , traces also of the Gullah dialects of Africa .
Such speech differences made him acutely aware of the richness and expressivness of language .
During the summers , while he was still in school , Mercer worked for his father's firm as a messenger boy .
It generally took well into the autumn for the firm to recover from the summer's help .
`` We'd give him things to deliver , letters , checks , deeds and things like that '' , remembers his half-brother Walter , still in the real estate business in Savannah , `` and learn days later that he'd absent-mindedly stuffed them into his pocket .
There they stayed '' .
This rather detached attitude toward life's encumbrances has seemed to be the dominant trait in Mercer's personality ever since .
It is , however , a disarming disguise , or perhaps a shield , for not only has Mercer proved himself to be one of the few great lyricists over the years , but also one who can function remarkably under pressure .
He has also enjoyed a successful career as an entertainer ( his records have sold in the millions ) and is a sharp businessman .
He has also an extraordinary conscience .
In 1927 his father's business collapsed , and , rather than go bankrupt , Mercer senior turned his firm over to a bank for liquidation .
He died before he could completely pay off his debts .
Some years later the bank handling the Mercer liquidation received a check for $300,000 , enough to clear up the debt .
The check had been mailed from Chicago , the envelope bore no return address , and the check was not signed .
`` That's Johnny '' , sighed the bank president , `` the best-hearted boy in the world , but absent-minded '' .
But Mercer's explanation was simple : `` I made out the check and carried it around a few days unsigned -- in case I lost it '' .
When he remembered that he might have not signed the check , Mercer made out another for the same amount , instructing the bank to destroy the other -- especially if he had happened to have absent-mindedly signed both of them .
When the family business failed , Mercer left school and on his mother's urging -- for she hoped that he would become an actor -- he joined a local little theater group .
When the troupe traveled to New York to participate in a one-act-play competition -- and won -- Mercer , instead of returning with the rest of the company in triumph , remained in New York .
He had talked one other member of the group to stay with him , but that friend had tired of not eating regularly and returned to Savannah .
But Mercer hung on , living , after a fashion , in a Greenwich Village fourth-flight walk-up .
`` The place had no sink or washbasin , only a bathtub '' , his mother discovered when she visited him .
`` Johnny insisted on cooking a chicken dinner in my honor -- he's always been a good cook -- and I'll never forget him cleaning the chicken in the tub '' .
A story , no doubt apocryphal , for Mercer himself denies it , has him sporting a monacle in those Village days .
Though merely clear glass , it was a distinctive trade mark for an aspiring actor who hoped to imprint himself upon the memories of producers .
One day in a bar , so the legend goes , someone put a beer stein with too much force on the monacle and broke it .
The innocent malfeasant , filled with that supreme sense of honor found in bars , insisted upon replacing the destroyed monacle -- and did , over the protests of the former owner -- with a square monacle .
Mercer is supposed to have refused it with , `` Anyone who wears a square monacle must be affected '' ! !
Everett Miller , then assistant director for the Garrick Gaieties , a Theatre Guild production , needed a lyricist for a song he had written ; ;
he just happened not to need any actor at the moment , however .
