For him Mercer produced the lyric to `` Out Of Breath Scared To Death Of You '' , introduced in that most successful of all the Gaieties , by Sterling Holloway .
This 1930 edition also had songs in it by Vernon Duke and Ira Gershwin , by E. Y. Harburg and Duke , and by Harry Myers .
Entrance into such stellar song writing company encouraged the burgeoning song writer to take a wife , Elizabeth Meehan , a dancer in the Gaieties .
The Mercers took up residence in Brooklyn , and Mercer found a regular job in Wall Street `` misplacing stocks and bonds '' .
When he heard that Paul Whiteman was looking for singers to replace the Rhythm Boys , Mercer applied and got the job , `` not for my voice , I'm sure , but because I could write songs and material generally '' .
While with the Whiteman band Mercer met Jerry Arlen .
He had yet to meet Harold Arlen , for although they had `` collaborated '' on `` Satan's Li'l Lamb '' , Mercer and Harburg had worked from a lead sheet the composer had furnished them .
The lyric , Mercer remembers , was tailored to fit the unusual melody .
Mercer's Whiteman association brought him into contact with Hoagy Carmichael , whose `` Snowball '' Mercer relyriced as `` Lazybones '' , in which form it became a hit and marked the real beginning of Mercer's song-writing career .
After leaving Whiteman , Mercer joined the Benny Goodman band as a vocalist .
With the help of Ziggy Elman , also in the band , he transformed a traditional Jewish melody into a popular song , `` And The Angels Sing '' .
The countrywide success of `` Lazybones '' and `` And The Angels Sing '' could only lead to Hollywood , where , besides Harold Arlen , Mercer collaborated with Harry Warren , Jimmy Van Heusen , Richard Whiting , Walter Donaldson , Jerome Kern , and Arthur Schwartz .
Mercer has also written both music and lyrics for several songs .
He may be the only song writer ever to have collaborated with a secretary of the U. S. Treasury ; ;
he collaborated on a song with William Hartman Woodin , who was Secretary of the Treasury , 1932-33 .
When Johnny Mercer and Harold Arlen began their collaboration in 1940 , Mercer , like Arlen , had several substantial film songs to his credit , among them `` Hooray For Hollywood '' , `` Ride , Tenderfoot , Ride '' , `` Have You Got Any Castles , Baby ? ?
'' , and `` Too Marvelous For Words '' ( all with Richard Whiting ) ; ;
with Harry Warren he did `` The Girl Friend Of The Whirling Dervish '' , `` Jeepers Creepers '' , and `` You Must Have Been A Beautiful Baby '' .
Mercer's lyrics are characterized by an unerring ear for rhythmic nuances , a puckish sense of humor expressed in language with a colloquial flair .
Though versatile and capable of turning out a ballad lyric with the best of them , Mercer's forte is a highly polished quasi-folk wit .
His casual , dreamlike working methods , often as not in absentia , were an abrupt change from Harburg's , so that Arlen had to adjust again to another approach to collaboration .
There were times that he worked with both lyricists simultaneously .
Speaking of his work with Johnny Mercer , Arlen says , `` Our working habits were strange .
After we got a script and the spots for the songs were blocked out , we'd get together for an hour or so every day .
While Johnny made himself comfortable on the couch , I'd play the tunes for him .
He has a wonderfully retentive memory .
After I would finish playing the songs , he'd just go away without a comment .
I wouldn't hear from him for a couple of weeks , then he'd come around with the completed lyric '' .
Arlen is one of the few ( possibly the only ) composer Mercer has been able to work with so closely , for they held their meetings in Arlen's study .
`` Some guys bothered me '' , Mercer has said .
`` I couldn't write with them in the same room with me , but I could with Harold .
He is probably our most original composer ; ;
he often uses very odd rhythms , which makes it difficult , and challenging , for the lyric writer '' .
While Arlen and Mercer collaborated on Hot Nocturne , Mercer worked also with Arthur Schwartz on another film , Navy Blues .
Arlen , too , worked on other projects at the same time with old friend Ted Koehler .
Besides doing a single song , `` When The Sun Comes Out '' , they worked on the ambitious American-Negro Suite , for voices and piano , as well as songs for films .
The American-Negro Suite is in a sense an extension of the Cotton Club songs in that it is a collection of Negro songs , not for a night club , but for the concert stage .
The work had its beginning in 1938 with an eight-bar musical strain to which Koehler set the words `` There'll be no more work ; ;
there'll be no more worry '' , matching the spiritual feeling of the jot .
This grew into the song `` Big Time Comin' '' .
By September 1940 the Suite had developed into a collection of six songs , `` four spirituals , a dream , and a lullaby '' .
The Negro composer Hall Johnson studied the American-Negro Suite and said of it , `` Of all the many songs written by white composers and employing what claims to be a Negroid idiom in both words and music , these six songs by Harold Arlen and Ted Koehler easily stand far out above the rest .
Thoroughly modern in treatment , they are at the same time , full of simple sincerity which invariably characterizes genuine Negro folk-music and are by no means to be confused with the average ' Broadway Spirituals ' which depend for their racial flavor upon sundry allusions to the ' Amen Corner ' , ' judgement Day , ' Gabriel's Horn , and a frustrated devil -- with a few random hallelujahs thrown in for good measure .
I feel obliged to describe this cubbyhole .
It had a single porcelain stall and but one cabinet for the chairing of the bards .
It was here that the terror-stricken Dennis Moon played an unrehearsed role during the children's party .
A much larger room , adjacent to the lavatory , served as a passageway to and from the skimpy toilet .
That unused room was large enough for -- well , say an elephant could get into it and , as a matter of fact , an elephant did .
Something occurred on the morning of the children's party which may illustrate the kind of trouble our restricted toilet facilities caused us .
It so happened that sports writer Arthur Robinson got out of the hospital that morning after promising his doctor that he be back in an hour or two to continue his convalescence .
Arthur Robinson traveled with the baseball clubs as staff correspondent for the American .
He was ghost writer for Babe Ruth , whose main talent for literary composition was the signing of his autograph .
Robbie was a war veteran with battle-shattered knees .
He arrived on crutches at the Newspaper Club with one of his great pals , Oliver Herford , artist , author , and foe of stupidity .
Mr. Herford's appearance was that of a frustrated gnome .
He seemed timid ( at first , ) wore nose glasses from which a black ribbon dangled , and was no bigger than a jockey .
Robinson asked Herford to escort him to the club's lavatory before they sat down for a highball and a game of cards .
In the jakes , after Robbie and his crutches were properly stowed , Mr. Herford went to the adjoining facility .
He had barely assumed his stance there when a fat fellow charged through the doorway .
Without any regard for rest-room protocol , the hulking stranger almost knocked Herford off his pins .
The artist-author said nothing , but stood to one side .
He waited a long time .
Nothing was said , nothing accomplished .
The unrelieved stranger eventually turned away from the place of his -- shall we dare say his Waterloo ? ?
-- to go to the door .
Mr. Herford touched the fat man's arm .
`` Pardon me , sir .
May I say that you have just demonstrated the truth of an old proverb -- the younger Pliny's , if memory serves me -- which , translated freely from the archaic Latin , says , ' The more haste , the less peed ' '' .
Governor Alfred E. Smith was the official host at the children's party .
United States Senator Royal S. Copeland was wearing the robes of Santa Claus and a great white beard ; ;
the Honorable Robert Wagner , Sr. , at that time a justice of the New York Supreme Court , was on the reception committee .
I was in charge of the arrangements -- which were soon enough disarranged .
I had had difficulties from the very first day .
When , in my enthusiasm , I proposed the party , my city editor ( who disliked the club and many of its members ) tried to block my participation in the gala event .
Even earlier than that he had resented the fact that I had been chosen to edit the club's Reporter .
City editor Victor Watson of the New York American was a man of brooding suspicions and mysterious shifts of mood .
Mr. Hearst's telegraphic code word for Victor Watson was `` fatboy '' .
The staff saw in him the qualities of a Don Cossack , hence , as mentioned before , his nickname `` the Hetman '' .
The Hetman's physical aspects were not those of a savage rider of the steppes .
Indeed , he looked more like a well-fleshed lay brother of the Hospice of St. Bernard .
Nor were his manners barbaric .
He had a purring voice and poker player's immobility of features which somehow conveyed the feeling that he knew where all the bodies were buried .
He was the son of a Scottish father and an American Jewish mother , long widowed , with whom he lived in a comfortable home in Flushing .
He had worked in the newspaper business since he was nineteen years old , always for the Hearst service .
From the very first he regarded himself as Mr. Hearst's disciple , defender , and afterward his prime minister , self-ordained .
It was said that the Hetman plotted to take over the entire Hearst newspaper empire one day by means of various coups : the destruction of editors who tried to halt his course , the unfrocking of publishers whose mistakes of judgment might be magnified in secret reports to Mr. Hearst .
Whatever the Hetman's ambitions , his colleagues were kept ill at ease .
Among the outstanding members of the Hearst cabinet whom he successfully opposed for a time were the great Arthur Brisbane , Bradford Merrill , S.S. Carvalho , and Colonel Van Hamm .
He also disliked Runyon , for no good reason other than the fact that the Demon's talent was so marked as to put him well beyond the Hetman's say-so or his supervision .
Runyon , for his part , had a contemptuous regard for Mr. Watson .
`` He's a wrong-o '' , said Runyon , `` and I wouldn't trust him as far as I could throw the Statue of Liberty '' .
Arthur `` Bugs '' Baer wrote to me just recently , `` Vic wanted to die in harness , with his head towards the wagon .
He supported his mother and his brother , who afterwards committed suicide .
Watson told me that his brother always sent roses to his mother , blossoms bought with Vic's allowance to him .
' And would you believe it ' , Vic added , ' she likes him better than she does me .
Why ' '' ? ?
About the only time the Hetman seemed excited was when one of his own pet ideas was born .
Then he would get to his feet , as though rising in honor of his own remarkable powers , and say almost invariably , `` Gentlemen , this is an amazing story ! !
It's bigger than the Armistice '' .
Some of the Hetman's `` ideas '' were dream-ridden , vaguely imparted , and at times preposterous .
One day he assigned me to lay bare a `` plot '' by the Duponts to supply munitions to a wholly fictitious revolution he said was about to occur in Cuba .
He said that his information was so secret that he would not be able to confide in me the origin of his pipeline tip .
`` I can tell you this much '' , he said .
It's bigger than the Armistice '' .
I worked for a day on this plainly ridiculous assignment and consulted several of my own well-informed sources .
Then I spent the next two days at the baseball park and at Jack Doyle's pool parlors .
When I returned to make my report , the Hetman did not remember having sent me on the secret mission .
He was busy , he said , in having someone submit to a monkey-gland operation .
And I was to go to work on that odd matter .
I shall tell of it later on .
The Hetman had a strong liking for a story , any story which was to be had by means of much sleuthing or by roundabout methods .
Most of my stories were obtained by simply seeking out the person who could give me the facts , and not as a rule by playing clever tricks .
One day I tired of following the Hetman's advice of `` shadowing '' and of the `` ring-around-the-rosie '' approach to a report that Enrico Caruso had pinched a lady's hip while visiting the Central Park monkey house .
I explained my state of mind to artist Winsor McCay and to `` Bugs '' Baer .
Mr. Baer obtained a supply of crepe hair and spirit-gum from an actor at the Friars .
We fashioned beards , put them on , and reported to the Hetman at the city desk .
Mr. Baer had an auburn beard , like Longfellow's .
Mr. McCay had on a sort of Emperor Maximilian beard and mustache .
As for myself , I had on an enormous black `` muff '' .
This , together with a derby hat and horn-rim eyeglasses , gave me the appearance of a Russian nihilist .
`` We are ready for your next mysterious assignment '' , said Mr. Baer to the Hetman .
`` Where to , sir '' ? ?
Mr. Watson did not have much humor in his make-up , but he managed a mirthless smile .
Just then a reporter telephoned in from the Bronx to give the rewrite desk an account of a murder .
The Hetman told me to take the story over the phone and to write it .
While I was sitting at one of the rewrite telephones with my derby and my great beard , Arthur Brisbane whizzed in with some editorial copy in his hand .
He paused for a moment to look at me , then went on to the city desk to deliver his `` Today '' column .
I thought it expedient to take off my derby , my glasses , and the beard ; ;
and also to change telephones .
I managed to do this by the time the great A.B. returned to the place where he last had seen the fierce nihilist .
He stood there staring with disbelief at the vacant desk .
Then he wrinkled his huge brow and went slowly out of the room .
He had a somewhat goggle-eyed expression .
He had been `` seeing things '' .
The Hetman's `` ideas '' for news stories or editorial campaigns were by no means always fruitless or lacking in merit .
He campaigned successfully for the riddance of `` Death Avenue '' and also brought about the ending of pollution of metropolitan beaches by sewage .
He exposed the bucket-shop racket with the able assistance of two excellent reporters , Nat Ferber and Carl Helm .
In the conduct of these and many other campaigns , the Hetman proved to be a much abler journalist than his critics allowed .
It seems to me now , in a long backward glance , that many of the Hetman's conceits and odd actions -- together with his grim posture when brandishing the hatchet in the name of Mr. Hearst -- were keyed with the tragedy which was to close over him one day .
Alone , rejected on every hand , divorced , and in financial trouble , he leaped from an eleventh-floor window of the Abbey Hotel in 1937 .
One finds it difficult to pass censure on the lonely figure who waited for days for a saving word from his zealously served idol , W.R. Hearst .
That word was withheld when the need of it seemed the measure of his despair .
The unfinished note , written in pencil upon the back of a used envelope , and addressed to the coroner , makes one wonder about many things : `` God forgive me for everything .
I cannot ''
Much to Damon Runyon's amazement , as well as my own , I got along splendidly with the Hetman ; ;
that is , until I became an editor , hence , in his eyes , a rival .
Not long after Colonel Van Hamm had foisted me on the Watson staff I received a salary raise and a contract on the Hetman's recommendation .
During the next years he gave me the second of the five contracts I would sign with the Hearst Service .
It was a somewhat unusual thing for a reporter to have a contract in those days before the epidemic of syndicated columnists .
I would like to believe that my ability warranted this advancement .
Somehow I think that Watson paid more attention to me than he otherwise might have because his foe , Colonel Van Hamm , wouldn't touch me with a ten-foot blue pencil .
I remember one day when Mr. Hearst ( and I never knew why he liked me , either ) sent the Hetman a telegram : `` Please find some more reporters like that young man from Denver '' .
Watson showed this wire to Colonel Van Hamm .
The colonel grunted , then made a remark which might be construed in either of two ways .
`` Don't bother to look any further .
We already have the only one of its kind '' .
The Hetman did have friends , but they were mostly outside the newspaper profession .
Sergeant Mike Donaldson , Congressional Medal of Honor soldier , was one of them .
Dr. Menas S. Gregory was another .
I used to go with Watson to call on the eminent neurologist at his apartment , to sit among the doctor's excellent collection of statues , paintings , and books and drink Oriental coffee while Watson seemed to thaw out and become almost affable .
There was one time , however , when his face clouded and he suddenly blurted , `` Why did my brother commit suicide '' ? ?
I cannot remember Dr. Gregory's reply , if , indeed , he made one .
If she were not at home , Mama would see to it that a fresh white rose was there .
Sometimes , Mrs. Coolidge would close herself in the Green Suite on the second floor , and play the piano she had brought to the White House .
Mama knew she was playing her son's favorite pieces and feeling close to him , and did not disturb her .
All the rest of the days in the White House would be shadowed by the tragic loss , even though the President tried harder than ever to make his little dry jokes and to tease the people around him .
A little boy came to give the President his personal condolences , and the President gave word that any little boy who wanted to see him was to be shown in .
Backstairs , the maids cried a little over that , and the standing invitation was not mentioned to Mrs. Coolidge .
The President was even more generous with the First Lady than he had been before the tragedy .
He would bring her boxes of candy and other presents to coax a smile to her lips .
He brought her shawls .
Dresses were short in the days of Mrs. Coolidge , and Spanish shawls were thrown over them .
He got her dozens of them .
One shawl was so tremendous that she could not wear it , so she draped it over the banister on the second floor , and it hung over the stairway .
The President used to look at it with a ghost of a smile .
Mrs. Coolidge spent more time in her bedroom among her doll collection .
She kept the dolls on the Lincoln bed .
At night , when Mama would turn back the covers , she would have to take all the dolls off the bed and place them elsewhere for the night .
Mama always felt that the collection symbolized Mrs. Coolidge's wish for a little girl .
Among the dolls was one that meant very much to the First Lady , who would pick it up and look at it often .
It had a tiny envelope tied to its wrist .
An accompanying sympathetic letter explained that inside the envelope was a name for Mrs. Coolidge's first granddaughter .
Mama knew this doll was meant to help Mrs. Coolidge overcome her grief by turning her eyes to the future .
The name inside the envelope was `` Cynthia '' .
The Coolidges' life , after the death of their son , was quieter than ever .
John was away at school most of the time .
Mrs. Coolidge would knit , and the President would sit reading , or playing with the many pets around them .
Now and then , the President would call for `` Little Jack , Master of the Hounds '' , which was his nickname for a messenger who had worked in the White House since Teddy Roosevelt's administration , and discuss the welfare of some one of the animals .
It was part of Little Jack's work to look after the dogs .
One White House dog was immortalized in a painting .
That was Rob Roy , who posed with Mrs. Coolidge for the portrait by Howard Chandler Christy .
To get him to pose , Mrs. Coolidge would feed him candy , so he enjoyed the portrait sessions as well as she did .
I would like to straighten out a misconception about the dress Mrs. Coolidge is wearing in this painting .
It is not the same dress as the one on her manikin in the Smithsonian .
People think the dress in the picture was lengthened by an artist much later on .
This is not true .
The dress in the painting is a bright red , with rhinestones forming a spray on the right side .
There is a long train flowing from the shoulders .
Mrs. Coolidge gave Mama this dress for me , and I wore it many times .
I still have the dress , and I hope to give it to the Smithsonian Institution as a memento , or , as I more fondly hope , to present it to a museum containing articles showing the daily lives of the Presidents -- if I can get it organized .
But to get back to the Coolidge household , Mrs. Coolidge so obviously loved dogs , that the public sent her more dogs -- Calamity Jane , Timmy , and Blackberry .
The last two were a red and a black chow .
Rob Roy remained boss of all the dogs .
He showed them what to do , and taught them how to keep the maids around the White House in a state of terror .
The dogs would run through the halls after him like a burst of bullets , and all the maids would run for cover .
Mama didn't know what to do -- whether to tell on Rob Roy or not -- since she had the ear of Mrs. Coolidge more than the other maids .
But she was afraid the First Lady would not understand , because Rob Roy was a perfect angel with the First Family .
Every day , when the President took his nap , Rob Roy would stretch out on the window seat near him , like a perfect gentleman , and stare thoughtfully out the window , or he would take a little nap himself .
He would not make a sound until the President had wakened and left for the office ; ;
then he would bark to let everyone know the coast was clear .
His signal was for the other dogs to come running , but it was also the signal for Mama and the other maids to watch out .
Rob Roy was self-appointed to accompany the President to his office every morning .
Rob Roy was well aware of the importance of this mission , and he would walk in front of the President , looking neither to the right nor to the left .
At dinner , lunch , or breakfast , the President would call out , `` Supper '' ! !
-- he called all meals supper -- after the butler had announced the meal .
All the dogs would dash to get on the elevator with the President and go to the dining room .
They would all lie around on the rug during the meal , a very pretty sight as Rob Roy , Prudence , and Calamity Jane were all snow-white .
When Prudence and Blackberry were too young to be trusted in the dining room , they were tied to the radiator with their leashes , and they would cry .
Mama tried to talk to them and keep them quiet while she tidied up the sitting room before the First Family returned .
Finally , Mama did mention to Mrs. Coolidge that she felt sorry for the little dogs , and then Mrs. Coolidge decided to leave the radio on for them while she was gone , even though her husband disapproved of the waste of electricity .
Mama was now the first maid to Mrs. Coolidge , because Catherine , the previous first maid , had become ill and died .
Mrs. Coolidge chose Mama in her place .
It was a high mark for Mama .
Every First Family seems to have one couple upon whom it relies for true friendship .
For the Coolidges , it was Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Stearns of Boston , Massachusetts , owners of a large department store .
They seemed to be at the White House half the time .
The butlers were amused because when the Stearns were there , the President would say grace at breakfast .
If the Stearns were not there , grace would be omitted .
Speaking of breakfast , the President inaugurated a new custom -- that of conducting business at the breakfast table .
The word was that this too was part of an economy move on his part .
A new bill had been passed under Harding that designated the Government , rather than the President , as the tab-lifter for official meals .
So the President would make a hearty breakfast official by inviting Government officials to attend .
He caused a lot of talk when he also chose the breakfast hour to have the barber come in and trim his hair while he ate .
Mama said that if Presidents were supposed to be colorful , Mr. Coolidge certainly made a good president .
He knew exactly how to be colorful ! !
The favorite guest of the house , as far as the staff was concerned , was Mr. Wrigley , the chewing gum king .
The White House had chewing gum until it could chew no more , and every Christmas , Mr. Wrigley sent the President a check for $100 , to be divided among all the help .
You can imagine that he got pretty good service .
Another good friend of the Coolidges' was George B. Harvey , who was the Ambassador to Great Britain from 1921 to 1923 .
He had been a friend of the Hardings , and continued to be invited by the Coolidges .
The first royalty whom Mama ever waited on in the White House was Queen Marie of Rumania , who came to a State dinner given in her honor on October 21 , 1926 .
She was not an overnight guest in the White House , but Mr. Ike Hoover , the chief usher , had Mama check her fur coat when she came in , and take care of her needs .
Mama said she was one of the prettiest ladies she had ever seen .
Mama was very patriotic , and one of the duties she was proudest of was repairing the edges of the flag that flew above the White House .
Actually , two flags were used at the mansion -- a small one on rainy days , and a big one on bright days .
The wool would become frazzled around the edges from blowing in the wind , and Mama would mend it .
She would often go up on the roof to see the attendant take down the flag in the evening .
She used to tell me , `` When I stand there and look at the flag blowing this way and that way , I have the wonderful , safe feeling that Americans are protected no matter which way the wind blows '' .
Even when Mrs. Coolidge was in mourning for her son , she reached out to help other people in trouble .
One person she helped was my brother .
Mama had told her how Emmett's lungs had been affected when he was gassed in the war .
He was in and out of Mount Alto Hospital for veterans any number of times .
Taking a personal interest , she had the doctor assigned to the White House , Dr. James Coupal , look Emmett over .
As a result , he was sent to a hospital in Arizona until his health improved enough for him to come back to Washington to work in the Government service .
But again , there was danger that his lungs would suffer in the muggy Washington weather , and he had to return to the dry climate of the West to live and work .
When Mrs. Coolidge was in mourning , she did not wear black .
She wore grey every day , and white every evening .
Mama knew that she was out of mourning when she finally wore bright colors .
The President helped her a lot by selecting some lovely colored dresses to get her started .
She opened the boxes with a tear in her eye and a sad smile on her face .
On the social side , the chore Mama had at the formal receptions at the White House thrilled her the most .
It was her job to stand at the foot of the stairs , and , just as the First Lady stepped off the last tread , Mama would straighten out her long train before she marched to the Blue Room to greet her guests with the President .
Mama would enjoy the sight of the famous guests as much as anyone , and would note a gown here and there to tell me about that night .
One night , Mama came home practically in a state of shock .
She had stood at the bottom of the stairs , as usual , when Mrs. Coolidge came down , in the same dress that is now in the Smithsonian , to greet her guests .
Mama stooped down to fix the train , but there was no train there ! !
She reached and reached around the dress , but there was nothing there .
She looked up and saw that , without knowing it , Mrs. Coolidge was holding it aloft .
Mrs. Coolidge looked down , saw Mama's horrified expression and quickly let the whole thing fall to the floor .
Mama swirled the train in place , and not a step was lost .
The Coolidges did not always live at the White House during the Presidency .
Impressive as this enumeration is , it barely hints at the diverse perceptions of Jews , collectively or individually , that have been attested by their Gentile environment .
It is reasonable to affirm two propositions : Jews have been perceived by non-Jews as all things to all men ; ;
some Jews have in fact been all things to all men .
In the arena of power Jews have at one time or another been somebody's ally ; ;
they have observed correct neutrality ; ;
they have been someone's enemy .
In the market place Jews have in fact under various circumstances been valued customers and suppliers , or clannish monopolists and cutthroat competitors .
And so on through the roles referred to in the previous paragraph .
Diversity of perception , yes ; ;
diversity of fact , yes .
But the two do not invariably or even typically coincide .
The `` conventional '' image of a particular time and place is not necessarily congruent with the image of the facts as established over the years by scholarly and scientific research .
Conventional images of Jews have this in common with all perceptions of a configuration in which one feature is held constant : images can be both true and false .
The genuinely interesting question , then , becomes : What factors determine the degree of realism or distortion in conventional images of Jews ? ?
The working test of `` the facts '' must always be the best available description obtainable from scholars and scientists who have applied their methods of investigation to relevant situations .
Granted , such `` functional '' images are subject to human error ; ;
they are self-correcting in the sense that they are subject to disciplined procedures that check and recheck against error .
In accounting for realism or distortion two sets of factors can be usefully distinguished : current intelligence ; ;
predispositions regarding intelligence .
General Grant may have been the victim of false information in the instance reported in this book ; ;
if so , he would not be the first or last commanding officer who has succumbed to bad information and dubious estimates of the future .
But General Grant may have been self-victimized .
He may have entered the situation with predispositions that prepared him to act uncritically in the press of affairs .
Predispositions , in turn , fall conveniently into two categories for purposes of analysis .
To some extent predispositions are shaped by exposure to group environments .
In some measure they depend upon the structure of individual personality .
The anti-Semitism of Hitler owed something to his exposure to the ideology of Lueger's politically successful Christian socialist movement in Vienna .
But millions of human beings were exposed to Lueger's propaganda and record .
After allowing for group exposures , it is apparent that other factors must be considered if we are to comprehend fanaticism .
These are personality factors ; ;
they include harmonies and conflicts within the whole man , and mechanisms whereby inner components are more or less smoothly met .
Modern psychiatric knowledge provides us with many keys to unlock the significance of behavior of the kind .
The foregoing factors are pertinent to the analysis of perceptual images and the broad conditions under which they achieve realism or fall short of it .
Undoubtedly one merit of the vast panorama of Gentile conceptions of the Jew unfolded in the present anthology is that it provides a formidable body of material that invites critical examination in terms of reality .
Many selections are themselves convincing contributions to this appraisal .
Undoubtedly , however , the significance of the volume is greater than the foregoing paragraphs suggest .
Speaking as a non-Jew I believe that its primary contribution is in the realm of future policy .
Since we can neither undo nor redo the past , we are limited to the events of today and tomorrow .
In this domain the simple fact of coexistence in the same local , national , and world community is enough to guarantee that we cannot refrain from having some effect , large or small , upon Gentile-Jewish relations .
What shall these effects be ? ?
I am deliberately raising the policy problems involved in Gentile-Jewish relations .
Comprehensive examination of any policy question calls for the performance of the intellectual tasks inseparable from any problem-solving method .
The tasks are briefly indicated by these questions : What are my goals in Gentile-Jewish relations ? ?
What are the historical trends in this country and abroad in the extent to which these goals are effectively realized ? ?
What factors condition the degree of realization at various times and places ? ?
What is the probable course of future developments ? ?
What policies if adopted and applied in various circumstances will increase the likelihood that future events will coincide with desired events and do so at least cost in terms of all human values ? ?
It is beyond the province of this epilogue to cover policy questions of such depth and range .
The discussion is therefore limited to a suggested procedure for realizing at least some of the potential importance of this volume for future policy .
As a groundwork for the proposal I give some attention to the first task enumerated above , the clarification of goal .
My reply is that I associate myself with all those who affirm that Gentile-Jewish relations should contribute to the theory and practice of human dignity .
The basic goal finds partial expression in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , a statement initiated and endorsed by individuals and organizations of many religious and philosophical traditions .
Within this frame of reference policies appropriate to claims advanced in the name of the Jews depend upon which Jewish identity is involved , as well as upon the nature of the claim , the characteristics of the claimant , the justifications proposed , and the predispositions of the community decision makers who are called upon to act .
If Jews are identified as a religious body in a controversy that comes before a national or international tribunal , it is obviously compatible with the goal of human dignity to protect freedom of worship .
When decision makers act within this frame they determine whether a claim put forward in the name of religion is to be accepted by the larger community as appropriate to religion .
Since the recognition of Israel as a nation state , claims are made in many cases which identify the claimant as a member of the new body politic .
Community decision makers must make up their minds whether a claim is acceptable to the larger community in terms of prevailing expectations regarding members of nation states .
In free countries many controversies involve self-styled Jews who use the symbol in asserting a vaguely `` cultural '' rather than religious or political identity .
The decision maker who acts for the community as a whole must decide whether the objectives pursued and the methods used are appropriate to public policy regarding cultural groups .
We know that much is made of the multiplicity and ambiguity of the identities that cluster around the key symbol of the Jew .
Many public and private controversies will undoubtedly continue to reflect these confusions in the mind and usage of Gentile and Jew .
However , in the context of legal and civic policy , these controversies are less than novel .
They involve similar uncertainties regarding the multiple identities of any number of non-Jewish groups .
So far as the existing body of formal principle and procedure is concerned , categorical novelties are not to be anticipated in Jewish-Gentile relationships ; ;
claims are properly disposed of according to norms common to all parties .
It is not implied that formal principles and procedures are so firmly entrenched within the public order of the world community or even of free commonwealths that they will control in all circumstances involving Jews and Gentiles during coming years .
Social process is always anchored in past predisposition ; ;
but it is perennially restructured in situations where anchors are dragged or lost .
In conformance with the maximization principle we affirm that Gentile-Jewish relations will be harmonious or inharmonious to the degree that one relation or the other is expected by the active participants to yield the greatest net advantage , taking all value outcomes and effects into consideration .
It is not difficult to anticipate circumstances in which negative tensions will cumulate ; ;
for instance , imagine the situation if Israel ever joins an enemy coalition .
The formal position of Americans who identify themselves with one or more of the several identities of the Jewish symbol is already clear ; ;
the future weight of informal factors cannot be so easily assessed .
When we consider the disorganized state of the world community , and the legacy of predispositions adversely directed against all who are identified as Jews , it is obvious that the struggle for the minds and muscles of men needs to be prosecuted with increasing vigor and skill .
During moments of intense crisis the responsibility of political leaders is overwhelming .
But their freedom of policy is limited by the pattern of predisposition with which they and the people around them enter the crisis .
At such critical moments predispositions favorable to human dignity most obviously `` pay off '' .
By the same test predispositions destructive of human personality exercise their most sinister impact , with the result that men of good will are often trapped and nullified .
Among measures in anticipation of crisis are plans to inject into the turmoil as assistants of key decision makers qualified persons who are cognizant of the corrosive effect of crisis upon personal relationships and are also able to raise calm and realistic voices when overburdened leaders near the limit of self-control .
We are learning how to do these things in some of the vast organized structures of modern society ; ;
the process can be accelerated .
A truism is that the time to prepare for the worst is when times are best .
During intercrisis periods the educational facilities of the community have the possibility of remolding the perspectives and altering the behavior of vast numbers of human beings of every age and condition .
As more men and women are made capable of living up to the challenge of decency the chances are improved that the pattern of predisposition prevailing in positions of strength in future crises can be favorably affected .
Now an abiding difficulty of paragraphs like the foregoing is that they appear to preach ; ;
and in contemporary society we often complain of too much reaffirmation of the goodness of the good .
In any case I do not intend to let the present occasion pass without dealing more directly with the problem of implementing good intentions .
I assume that the number of readers of this anthology who regard themselves as morally perfect is small , and that most readers are willing to consider procedures by which they may gain more insight into themselves and better understanding of others .
Properly used , the present book is an excellent instrument of enlightenment .
Let us not confuse the issue by labeling the objective or the method `` psychoanalytic '' , for this is a well established term of art for the specific ideas and procedures initiated by Sigmund Freud and his followers for the study and treatment of disordered personalities .
The traditional method proceeds by the technique of free association , punctuated by interpretations proposed by the psychoanalytic interviewer .
What we have in mind does have something in common with the goals of psychoanalysis and with the methods by which they are sought .
For what we propose , however , a psychoanalyst is not necessary , even though one aim is to enable the reader to get beneath his own defenses -- his defenses of himself to himself .
For this purpose a degree of intellectual and emotional involvement is necessary ; ;
but involvement needs to be accompanied by a special frame of mind .
The relatively long and often colorful selections in this anthology enable the reader to become genuinely absorbed in what is said , whether he responds with anger or applause .
But simple involvement is not enough ; ;
self-discovery calls for an open , permissive , inquiring posture of self-observation .
The symposium provides an opportunity to confront the self with specific statements which were made at particular times by identifiable communicators who were addressing definite audiences -- and throughout several hundred pages everyone is talking about the same key symbol of identification .
An advantage of being exposed to such specificity about an important and recurring feature of social reality is that it can be taken advantage of by the reader to examine covert as well as overt resonances within himself , resonances triggered by explicit symbols clustering around the central figure of the Jew .
Two facets of this aspect of the literary process have special significance for our time .
One , a reservation on the point I have just made , is the phenomenon of pseudo-thinking , pseudo-feeling , and pseudo-willing , which Fromm discussed in The Escape From Freedom .
In essence this involves grounding one's thought and emotion in the values and experience of others , rather than in one's own values and experience .
There is a risk that instead of teaching a person how to be himself , reading fiction and drama may teach him how to be somebody else .
Clearly what the person brings to the reading is important .
Moreover , if the critic instructs his audience in what to see in a work , he is contributing to this pseudo-thinking ; ;
if he instructs them in how to evaluate a work , he is helping them to achieve their own identity .
The second timely part of this sketch of literature and the search for identity has to do with the difference between good and enduring literary works and the ephemeral mass culture products of today .
In the range and variety of characters who , in their literary lives , get along all right with life styles one never imagined possible , there is an implicit lesson in differentiation .
The reader , observing this process , might ask `` why not be different '' ? ?
And find in the answer a license to be a variant of the human species .
The observer of television or other products for a mass audience has only a permit to be , like the models he sees , even more like everybody else .
And this , I think , holds for values as well as life styles .
One would need to test this proposition carefully ; ;
after all , the large ( and probably unreliable ) Reader's Digest literature on the `` most unforgettable character I ever met '' deals with village grocers , country doctors , favorite if illiterate aunts , and so forth .
Scientists often turn out to be idiosyncratic , too .
But still , the proposition is worth examination .
It is possible that the study of literature affects the conscience , the morality , the sensitivity to some code of `` right '' and `` wrong '' .
I do not know that this is true ; ;
both Flugel and Ranyard West deal with the development and nature of conscience , as do such theologians as Niebuhr and Buber .
It forms the core of many , perhaps most , problems of psychotherapy .
I am not aware of great attention by any of these authors or by the psychotherapeutic profession to the role of literary study in the development of conscience -- most of their attention is to a pre-literate period of life , or , for the theologians of course , to the influence of religion .
Still , it would be surprising if what one reads did not contribute to one's ideas of right and wrong ; ;
certainly the awakened alarm over the comic books and the continuous concern over prurient literature indicate some peripheral aspects of this influence .
Probably the most important thing to focus on is not the development of conscience , which may well be almost beyond the reach of literature , but the contents of conscience , the code which is imparted to the developed or immature conscience available .
This is in large part a code of behavior and a glossary of values : what is it that people do and should do and how one should regard it .
In a small way this is illustrated by the nineteenth-century novelist who argued for the powerful influence of literature as a teacher of society and who illustrated this with the way a girl learned to meet her lover , how to behave , how to think about this new experience , how to exercise restraint .
Literature may be said to give people a sense of purpose , dedication , mission , significance .
This , no doubt , is part of what Gilbert Seldes implies when he says of the arts , `` They give form and meaning to life which might otherwise seem shapeless and without sense '' .
Men seem almost universally to want a sense of function , that is , a feeling that their existence makes a difference to someone , living or unborn , close and immediate or generalized .
Feeling useless seems generally to be an unpleasant sensation .
A need so deeply planted , asking for direction , so to speak , is likely to be gratified by the vivid examples and heroic proportions of literature .
The terms `` renewal '' and `` refreshed '' , which often come up in aesthetic discussion , seem partly to derive their import from the `` renewal '' of purpose and a `` refreshed '' sense of significance a person may receive from poetry , drama , and fiction .
The notion of `` inspiration '' is somehow cognate to this feeling .
How literature does this , or for whom , is certainly not clear , but the content , form , and language of the `` message '' , as well as the source , would all play differentiated parts in giving and molding a sense of purpose .
One of the most salient features of literary value has been deemed to be its influence upon and organization of emotion .
Let us differentiate a few of these ideas .
The Aristotelian notion of catharsis , the purging of emotion , is a persistent and viable one .
The idea here is one of discharge but this must stand in opposition to a second view , Plato's notion of the arousal of emotion .
A third idea is that artistic literature serves to reduce emotional conflicts , giving a sense of serenity and calm to individuals .
This is given some expression in Beardsley's notion of harmony and the resolution of indecision .
A fourth view is the transformation of emotion , as in Housman's fine phrase on the arts : they `` transform and beautify our inner nature '' .
It is possible that the idea of enrichment of emotion is a fifth idea .
F.S.C. Northrop , in his discussion of The `` Functions And Future Of Poetry '' , suggests this : `` One of the things which makes our lives drab and empty and which leaves us , at the end of the day , fatigued and deflated spiritually is the pressure of the taxing , practical , utilitarian concern of common-sense objects .
If art is to release us from these postulated things ( things we must think symbolically about ) and bring us back to the ineffable beauty and richness of the aesthetic component of reality in its immediacy , it must sever its connection with these common sense entities '' .
I take the central meaning here to be the contrast between the drab empty quality of life without literature and a life enriched by it .
Richards' view of the aesthetic experience might constitute a sixth variety : for him it constitutes , in part , the organization of impulses .
A sketch of the emotional value of the study of literature would have to take account of all of these .
But there is one in particular which , it seems to me , deserves special attention .
In the wide range of experiences common to our earth-bound race none is more difficult to manage , more troublesome , and more enduring in its effects than the control of love and hate .
The study of literature contributes to this control in a curious way .
William Wimsatt and Cleanth Brooks , it seems to me , have a penetrating insight into the way in which this control is effected : `` For if we say poetry is to talk of beauty and love ( and yet not aim at exciting erotic emotion or even an emotion of Platonic esteem ) and if it is to talk of anger and murder ( and yet not aim at arousing anger and indignation ) -- then it may be that the poetic way of dealing with these emotions will not be any kind of intensification , compounding , or magnification , or any direct assault upon the affections at all .
Something indirect , mixed , reconciling , tensional might well be the stratagem , the devious technique by which a poet indulged in all kinds of talk about love and anger and even in something like `` expressions '' of these emotions , without aiming at their incitement or even uttering anything that essentially involves their incitement '' .
The rehearsal through literature of emotional life under controlled conditions may be a most valuable human experience .
Here I do not mean catharsis , the discharge of emotion .
I mean something more like Freud's concept of the utility of `` play '' to a small child : he plays `` house '' or `` doctor '' or `` fireman '' as a way of mastering slightly frightening experiences , reliving them imaginatively until they are under control .
There is a second feature of the influences of literature , good literature , on emotional life which may have some special value for our time .
In B. M. Spinley's portrayal of the underprivileged and undereducated youth of London , a salient finding was the inability to postpone gratification , a need to satisfy impulses immediately without the pleasure of anticipation or of savoring the experience .
Perhaps it is only an analogy , but one of the most obvious differences between cheap fiction and fiction of an enduring quality is the development of a theme or story with leisure and anticipation .
Anyone who has watched children develop a taste for literature will understand what I mean .
It is at least possible that the capacity to postpone gratification is developed as well as expressed in a continuous and guided exposure to great literature .
In any inquiry into the way in which great literature affects the emotions , particularly with respect to the sense of harmony , or relief of tension , or sense of `` a transformed inner nature '' which may occur , a most careful exploration of the particular feature of the experience which produces the effect would be required .
In the calm which follows the reading of a poem , for example , is the effect produced by the enforced quiet , by the musical quality of words and rhythm , by the sentiments or sense of the poem , by the associations with earlier readings , if it is familiar , by the boost to the self-esteem for the semi-literate , by the diversion of attention , by the sense of security in a legitimized withdrawal , by a kind license for some variety of fantasy life regarded as forbidden , or by half-conscious ideas about the magical power of words ? ?
These are , if the research is done with subtlety and skill , researchable topics , but the research is missing .
One of the most frequent views of the value of literature is the education of sensibility that it is thought to provide .
Sensibility is a vague word , covering an area of meaning rather than any precise talent , quality , or skill .
Among other things it means perception , discrimination , sensitivity to subtle differences .
Both the extent to which this is true and the limits of the field of perceptual skill involved should be acknowledged .
Its truth is illustrated by the skill , sensitivity , and general expertise of the English professor with whom one attends the theatre .
The limits are suggested by an imaginary experiment : contrast the perceptual skill of English professors with that of their colleagues in discriminating among motor cars , political candidates , or female beauty .
Along these lines , the particular point that sensitivity in literature leads to sensitivity in human relations would require more proof than I have seen .
In a symposium and general exploration of the field of Personal Perception and Interpersonal Behavior the discussion does not touch upon this aspect of the subject , with one possible exception ; ;
Solomon Asch shows the transcultural stability of metaphors based on sensation ( hot , sweet , bitter , etc. ) dealing with personal qualities of human beings and events .
But to go from here to the belief that those more sensitive to metaphor and language will also be more sensitive to personal differences is too great an inferential leap .
I would say , too , that the study of literature tends to give a person what I shall call depth .
I use this term to mean three things : a search for the human significance of an event or state of affairs , a tendency to look at wholes rather than parts , and a tendency to respond to these events and wholes with feeling .
It is the obverse of triviality , shallowness , emotional anaesthesia .
I think these attributes cluster , but I have no evidence .
In fact , I can only say this seems to me to follow from a wide , continuous , and properly guided exposure to literary art .
The late R. G. Collingwood , a philosopher whose work has proved helpful to many students of literature , once wrote `` : :
We are all , though many of us are snobbish enough to wish to deny it , in far closer sympathy with the art of the music-hall and picture-palace than with Chaucer and Cimabue , or even Shakespeare and Titian .
By an effort of historical sympathy we can cast our minds back into the art of a remote past or an alien present , and enjoy the carvings of cavemen and Japanese colour-prints ; ;
but the possibility of this effort is bound up with that development of historical thought which is the greatest achievement of our civilization in the last two centuries , and it is utterly impossible to people in whom this development has not taken place .
The natural and primary aesthetic attitude is to enjoy contemporary art , to despise and dislike the art of the recent past , and wholly to ignore everything else '' .
One might argue that the ultimate purpose of literary scholarship is to correct this spontaneous provincialism that is likely to obscure the horizons of the general public , of the newspaper critic , and of the creative artist himself .
There results a study of literature freed from the tyranny of the contemporary .
Such study may take many forms .
The study of ideas in literature is one of these .
Of course , it goes without saying that no student of ideas can justifiably ignore the contemporary scene .
He will frequently return to it .
The continuities , contrasts , and similarities discernible when past and present are surveyed together are inexhaustible and the one is often understood through the other .
When we assert the value of such study , we find ourselves committed to an important assumption .
Most students of literature , whether they call themselves scholars or critics , are ready to argue that it is possible to understand literary works as well as to enjoy them .
Many will add that we may find our enjoyment heightened by our understanding .
This understanding , of course , may in its turn take many forms and some of these -- especially those most interesting to the student of comparative literature -- are essentially historical .
But the historian of literature need not confine his attention to biography or to stylistic questions of form , `` texture '' , or technique .
He may also consider ideas .
It is true that this distinction between style and idea often approaches the arbitrary since in the end we must admit that style and content frequently influence or interpenetrate one another and sometimes appear as expressions of the same insight .
But , in general , we may argue that the student can direct the primary emphasis of his attention toward one or the other .
At this point a working definition of idea is in order , although our first definition will have to be qualified somewhat as we proceed .
The term idea refers to our more reflective or thoughtful consciousness as opposed to the immediacies of sensuous or emotional experience .
It is through such reflection that literature approaches philosophy .
An idea , let us say , may be roughly defined as a theme or topic with which our reflection may be concerned .
In this essay , we are , along with most historians , interested in the more general or more inclusive ideas , that are so to speak `` writ large '' in history of literature where they recur continually .
Outstanding among these is the idea of human nature itself , including the many definitions that have been advanced over the centuries ; ;
also secondary notions such as the perfectibility of man , the depravity of man , and the dignity of man .
One might , indeed , argue that the history of ideas , in so far as it includes the literatures , must center on characterizations of human nature and that the great periods of literary achievement may be distinguished from one another by reference to the images of human nature that they succeed in fashioning .
We need not , to be sure , expect to find such ideas in every piece of literature .
An idea , of the sort that we have in mind , although of necessity readily available to imagination , is more general in connotation than most poetic or literary images , especially those appearing in lyric poems that seek to capture a moment of personal experience .
Thus Burns's `` My love is like a red , red rose '' and Hopkins' `` The thunder-purple sea-beach , plumed purple of Thunder '' although clearly intelligible in content , hardly present ideas of the sort with which we are here concerned .
On the other hand , Arnold's `` The unplumbed , salt , estranging sea '' , taken in its context , certainly does so .
Understanding a work of art involves recognition of the ideas that it reflects or embodies .
Thus the student of literature may sometimes find it helpful to classify a poem or an essay as being in idea or in ideal content or subject matter typical or atypical of its period .
Again , he may discover embodied within its texture a theme or idea that has been presented elsewhere and at other times in various ways .
Our understanding will very probably require both these commentaries .
Very likely it will also include a recognition that the work we are reading reflects or `` belongs to '' some way of thought labelled as a `` school '' or an `` -ism '' , i.e. a complex or `` syndrome '' of ideas occurring together with sufficient prominence to warrant identification .
Thus ideas like `` grace '' , `` salvation '' , and `` providence '' cluster together in traditional Christianity .
Usually the work studied offers us a special or even an individualized rendering or treatment of the ideas in question , so that the student finds it necessary to distinguish carefully between the several expressions of an `` -ism '' or mode of thought .
Accordingly we may speak of the Platonism peculiar to Shelley's poems or the type of Stoicism present in Henley's `` Invictus '' , and we may find that describing such Platonism or such Stoicism and contrasting each with other expressions of the same attitude or mode of thought is a difficult and challenging enterprise .
After all , Shelley is no `` orthodox '' or Hellenic Platonist , and even his `` romantic '' Platonism can be distinguished from that of his contemporaries .
Again , Henley's attitude of defiance which colors his ideal of self-mastery is far from characteristic of a Stoic thinker like Marcus Aurelius , whose gentle acquiescence is almost Christian , comparable to the patience expressed in Milton's sonnet on his own blindness .
In recent years , we have come increasingly to recognize that ideas have a history and that not the least important chapters of this history have to do with thematic or conceptual aspects of literature and the arts , although these aspects should be studied in conjunction with the history of philosophy , of religion , and of the sciences .
When these fields are surveyed together , important patterns of relationship emerge indicating a vast community of reciprocal influence , a continuity of thought and expression including many traditions , primarily literary , religious , and philosophical , but frequently including contact with the fine arts and even , to some extent , with science .
Here we may observe that at least one modern philosophy of history is built on the assumption that ideas are the primary objectives of the historian's research .
Let us quote once more from R. G. Collingwood : `` History is properly concerned with the actions of human beings Regarded from the outside , an action is an event or series of events occurring in the physical world ; ;
regarded from the inside , it is the carrying into action of a certain thought The historian's business is to penetrate to the inside of the actions with which he is dealing and reconstruct or rather rethink the thoughts which constituted them .
It is a characteristic of thoughts that in re-thinking them we come , ipso facto , to understand why they were thought '' .
Such an understanding , although it must seek to be sympathetic , is not a matter of intuition .
`` History has this in common with every other science : that the historian is not allowed to claim any single piece of knowledge , except where he can justify his claim by exhibiting to himself in the first place , and secondly to any one else who is both able and willing to follow his demonstration , the grounds upon which it is based .
This is what was meant , above , by describing history as inferential .
The knowledge in virtue of which a man is an historian is a knowledge of what the evidence at his disposal proves about certain events '' .
It is obvious that the historian who seeks to recapture the ideas that have motivated human behavior throughout a given period will find the art and literature of that age one of his central and major concerns , by no means a mere supplement or adjunct of significant historical research .
The student of ideas and their place in history will always be concerned with the patterns of transition , which are at the same time patterns of transformation , whereby ideas pass from one area of activity to another .
Let us survey for a moment the development of modern thought -- turning our attention from the Reformation toward the revolutionary and romantic movements that follow and dwelling finally on more recent decades .
We may thus trace the notion of individual autonomy from its manifestation in religious practice and theological reflection through practical politics and political theory into literature and the arts .
Finally we may note that the idea appears in educational theory where its influence is at present widespread .
No one will deny that such broad developments and transitions are of great intrinsic interest and the study of ideas in literature would be woefully incomplete without frequent reference to them .
Still , we must remember that we cannot construct and justify generalizations of this sort unless we are ready to consider many special instances of influence moving between such areas as theology , philosophy , political thought , and literature .
The actual moments of contact are vitally important .
These moments are historical events in the lives of individual authors with which the student of comparative literature must be frequently concerned .
Perhaps the most powerful and most frequently recurring literary influence on the Western world has been that of the Old and New Testament .
Certainly one of the most important comments that can be made upon the spiritual and cultural life of any period of Western civilization during the past sixteen or seventeen centuries has to do with the way in which its leaders have read and interpreted the Bible .
This reading and the comments that it evoked constitute the influence .
A contrast of the scripture reading of , let us say , St. Augustine , John Bunyan , and Thomas Jefferson , all three of whom found in such study a real source of enlightenment , can tell us a great deal about these three men and the age that each represented and helped bring to conscious expression .
In much the same way , we recognize the importance of Shakespeare's familarity with Plutarch and Montaigne , of Shelley's study of Plato's dialogues , and of Coleridge's enthusiastic plundering of the writings of many philosophers and theologians from Plato to Schelling and William Godwin , through which so many abstract ideas were brought to the attention of English men of letters .
We may also recognize cases in which the poets have influenced the philosophers and even indirectly the scientists .
English philosopher Samuel Alexander's debt to Wordsworth and Meredith is a recent interesting example , as also A. N. Whitehead's understanding of the English romantics , chiefly Shelley and Wordsworth .
Hegel's profound admiration for the insights of the Greek tragedians indicates a broad channel of classical influence upon nineteenth-century philosophy .
Again the student of evolutionary biology will find a fascinating , if to our minds grotesque , anticipation of the theory of chance variations and the natural elimination of the unfit in Lucretius , who in turn seems to have borrowed the concept from the philosopher Empedocles .
Here an important caveat is in order .
We must avoid the notion , suggested to some people by examples such as those just mentioned , that ideas are `` units '' in some way comparable to coins or counters that can be passed intact from one group of people to another or even , for that matter , from one individual to another .
`` Suppose you take Mr. Hearst's morning American at $10,000 a year '' , Brisbane proposed .
`` You could come down to the office once a day , look over a few exchanges , dictate an editorial , and then have the remainder of your time for your more serious literary labors .
If within one year you can make a success out of the American , you can practically name your own salary thereafter .
Of course , if you don't make the American a success , Hearst will have no further use for you '' .
The blue-eyed Watson decided that he would dislike living in New York , and the deal fell through .
Hearst's luck was even poorer when he had a chat with Franklin K. Lane , a prominent California journalist and reform politician , whom he asked for his support .
Lane was still burning because he had narrowly missed election as governor of California in 1902 and laid his defeat to the antagonism of Hearst's San Francisco Examiner .
Hearst disclaimed blame for this , but the conversation , according to Lane , ended on a tart note .
`` Mr. Lane '' , Hearst said , `` if you ever wish anything that I can do , all you will have to do will be to send me a telegram asking , and it will be done '' .
`` Mr. Hearst '' , Lane replied as he left , `` if you ever get a telegram from me asking you to do anything , you can put the telegram down as a forgery '' .
Hearst took a brief respite to hurry home to New York to become a father .
On April 10 , 1904 , his first child was born , a son named George after the late Senator .
Hearst saw his wife and child , sent a joyful message to his mother in California , and soon returned to Washington , where on April 22 , for the first time , he opened his mouth in Congress .
This was not before the House but before the Judiciary Committee , where he asked for action on one of his pet bills , that calling for an investigation of the coal-railroad monopoly .
Attorney Shearn had worked on this for two years and had succeeded in getting a report supporting his stand from the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York .
Hearst had spent more than $60,000 of his own money in the probe , but still Attorney General Knox was quiescent .
Six of the railroads carrying coal to Tidewater from the Pennsylvania fields , Hearst said , not only had illegal agreements with coal operators but owned outright at least eleven mines .
They had watered their stock at immense profit , then had raised the price of coal fifty cents a ton , netting themselves another $20,000,000 in annual profit .
`` The Attorney General has been brooding over that evidence like an old hen on a doorknob for eighteen months '' , Hearst said .
`` He has not acted in any way , and won't let anyone take it away from him .
What I want is to have this evidence come before Congress and if the Attorney General does not report it , as I am very sure he won't , as he has refused to do anything of the kind , I then wish that a committee of seven Representatives be appointed with power to take the evidence .
''
The Congressman tried hard , but failed .
This was the very sort of legislation that Roosevelt himself had in mind .
There can be little doubt that there was a conspiracy in Washington , overt or implied , to block anything Hearst wanted , even if it was something good .
Hatred tied his hands in Congress .
Roosevelt and others considered him partly responsible for the murder of McKinley .
They were repelled by his noisy newspapers , his personal publicity , his presumptuous campaign for the Presidential nomination , and by the swelling cloud of rumor about his moral lapses .
He might get votes from his constituents , but he would never get a helping hand in Congress .
He was the House pariah .
Even the regular Democrats disowned him .
Inherently incapable of cooperating with others , he ran his own show regardless of how many party-line Democratic toes he stepped on .
He was a political maverick , a reformer with his own program , determined to bulldoze it through or to blazon the infamy of those who balked him .
He showed little interest in measures put forward by the regular Democrats .
He sought to run Congress as he ran his New York American or Journal , a scheme veteran legislators resisted .
For a freshman Congressman to read political Lessons to graybeard Democrats was poor policy for one who needed to make friends .
He soon quarreled with all the party leaders in the House , and came to be regarded with detestation by regular Democrats as a professional radical leading a small pack of obedient terriers whose constant snapping was demoralizing to party discipline .
To old-line Democrats , the Hearst Presidential boom , now in full cry , was the joke of the new century .
Yet no leader had come to the fore who seemed likely to give the puissant T. R. a semblance of a race .
There was talk of dragging old ex-President Cleveland out of retirement for another try .
Some preferred Judge Alton B. Parker of New York .
There was a host of dark horses .
The sneers at Hearst changed to concern when it was seen that he had strong support in many parts of the country .
Platoons of Hearst agents were traveling from state to state in a surprisingly successful search for delegates at the coming convention , and there were charges that money was doing a large part of the persuading .
Just when it was needed for the campaign , Hearst Paper No. 8 , the Boston American , began publication .
A Bay State supporter said , `` Mr. Hearst's fight has been helped along greatly by the starting of his paper in Boston '' .
His candidacy affected his journalism somewhat .
He ordered his editors to tone down on sensationalism and to refrain from using such words as `` seduction '' , `` rape '' , `` abortion '' , `` criminal assault '' and `` born out of wedlock '' .
In a story headed , `` Hearst Offers Cash '' , the Republican New York Tribune spread the money rumor , quoting an unnamed `` Hearst supporter '' as saying :
`` The argument that is cutting most ice is that Hearst is the only candidate who is fighting the trusts fearlessly and who would use all the powers of government to disrupt them if he were elected .
The Hearst men say that if Hearst is nominated , he and his immediate friends will contribute to the Democratic National Committee the sum of $1,500,000 .
This , it is urged , would relieve the national committee from the necessity of appealing to the trust magnates .
The alternative to this is that if a conservative candidate is nominated the national committee will have to appeal to the trusts for their campaign funds , and in doing this will incur obligations which would make a Democratic victory absolutely fruitless .
The average Democratic politician , especially in the country districts , is hungry for the spoils of office .
It has been a long time since he has seen any campaign money , and when the proposition is laid down to him as the friends of Mr. Hearst are laying it down these days he is quite likely to get aboard the Hearst bandwagon '' .
If anything , the conservative Democrats were more opposed to Hearst than the Republicans .
In his own state of New York , the two Democratic bellwethers , State Leader Hill and Tammany Boss Murphy , were saying nothing openly against Hearst but industriously boosting their own favorites , Murphy being for Cleveland and Hill for Parker .
They had lost twice with the radical Bryan , and were having no part of Hearst , whom they considered more radical than Bryan .
But his increasing strength in the West looked menacing .
It caused Henry Watterson to sound a blast in his Louisville Courier-Journal :
`` Does any sane Democrat believe that Mr. Hearst , a person unknown even to his constituency and his colleagues , without a word or act in the public life of his country , past or present , that can be shown to be his to commend him , could by any possibility be elected President of the United States ? ?
But there is a Hearst barrel .
''
More splenetic was Senator Edward Carmack of Tennessee , a Parker man .
`` The nomination of Hearst would compass the ruin of the party '' , Carmack said .
`` It would be a disgrace , and , as I have already said to the people of Tennessee , if Hearst is nominated , we may as well pen a dispatch , and send it back from the field of battle : ' All is lost , including our honor ' '' .
A lone pro-Hearst voice from New York City was that of William Devery , who had been expelled as a Tammany leader but still claimed strong influence in his own district .
`` I understand [ Hearst ] is a candidate for Presidential honors '' , Devery said without cracking a smile .
`` There's nothing like buildin' from the bottom up .
If he's going to the St. Louis convention as a delegate we ought to know it .
He's got a lot of friends , and he ought to come along and let us know if he wants our help '' .
Hearst won the Iowa state convention , but ran into a bitter battle in Indiana before losing to Parker , drawing an angry statement from Indiana's John W. Kern :
`` We are menaced for the first time in the history of the Republic by the open and unblushing effort of a multi-millionaire to purchase the Presidential nomination .
Our state has been overrun with a gang of paid agents and retainers .
As for the paid Hessians from other states , we are here to instruct the Indiana Democracy in their duty , I have nothing but contempt .
The Hearst dollar mark is all over them .
''
The talk of a Hearst `` barrel '' was increasing .
Another Indiana observer later commented , `` Perhaps we shall never know how much was spent ( by Hearst ) , but if as much money was expended elsewhere as in Indiana a liberal fortune was squandered '' .
In his fight for the Illinois and Indiana delegations , Hearst made several trips to Chicago to confer with Andrew Lawrence , the former San Francisco Examiner man who was now his Chicago kingpin , and once to meet with Bryan .
On one visit he stopped at the office of the American , where he was known surreptitiously as `` the Great White Chief '' , and for the first time met his managing editor , fat Moses Koenigsberg .
Koenigsberg never did learn what Hearst wanted , for the latter shook hands and moved toward the door .
`` Never mind , thank you '' , he said .
`` I must hurry to catch my train '' .
Another editor pointed despairingly at a bundle of letters that had accumulated for him , saying , `` But Mr. Hearst , what shall I do with this correspondence '' ? ?
`` I'll show you '' , Hearst replied , grinning .
He took the stack of mail and tossed it into the waste basket .
`` Don't bother .
Every letter answers itself in a couple of weeks '' .
2 .
The Hearst `` barrel ''
Hearst hopped into a private railroad car with Max Ihmsen and made an arduous personal canvass for delegates in the western and southern states , always wearing a frock coat , listening intently to local politicians , and generally making a good impression .
He laughed at a story that he planned to bolt the party if he was not nominated .
`` I should , of course '' , he said , `` like any other man , be honored and gratified should the Democrats see fit to nominate me .
But I do not have to be bribed by office to be a Democrat .
I have supported the Democratic party in the last five campaigns .
I supported Cleveland three times and Bryan twice .
I intend to support the nominee of the party at St. Louis , whoever he may be '' .
The Hearst press followed the Chief's progress at the various state conventions with its usual admiring attention , stressing the `` enthusiasm '' and `` loyalty '' he inspired .
This was historic in its way , for it marked the first time an American Presidential aspirant had advertised his own virtues in his own string of newspapers spanning the land .
Yet his editors did not abandon their sense of story value .
When Nan Patterson , a stunning and money-minded chorus girl who had appeared in a Floradora road show , rode down Broadway in a hansom cab with her married lover , Frank Young , she stopped the cab to disclose that Young had been shot dead , tearfully insisting that he had shot himself although experts said he could not have done so .
Trevelyan's Liberalism was above all a liberalism of the spirit , a deep feeling of communion with men fighting for country and for liberty .
His passion and enthusiasm convey the courage and high adventure of Garibaldi's exploits and give the reader a unique sense of participation in the events described .
The three volumes brought to the fore a characteristic of Trevelyan's prose which remained conspicuous through his later works -- a genius for describing military action with clarity and with authority .
The confused rambling of guerrilla warfare , such as most of Garibaldi's campaigns were , was brought to life by Trevelyan's pen in some of the best passages in the books .
His personal familiarity with the scenes of action undoubtedly contributed much to the final result , but familiarity alone would not have been enough without other qualities .
Military knowledge , love of detail , and a sure feeling for the portrayal of action were the added ingredients .
But the Garibaldi volumes were more than a romantic story .
Trevelyan contributed considerable new knowledge of the issues connected with his subject .
The outstanding example was in Garibaldi And The Thousand , where he made use of unpublished papers of Lord John Russell and English consular materials to reveal the motives which led the British government to permit Garibaldi to cross the Straits of Messina .
In looking back over the volumes , it is possible to find errors of interpretation , some of which were not so evident at the time of writing .
Thus Trevelyan repeats the story which pictured Victor Emmanuel as refusing to abandon the famous Statuto at the insistence of General Radetzky .
Later research has shown this part of the legend of the Re Galantuomo to be false .
Trevelyan accepts Italian nationalism with little analysis , he is unduly critical of papal and French policy , and he is more than generous in assessing British policy .
But fifty years later the trilogy still maintains a firm place in the list of standard works on the unification of Italy , a position cautiously prophesied by the reviewers at the time of publication .
Trevelyan's Manin And The Venetian Revolution Of 1848 , his last major volume on an Italian theme , was written in a minor key .
Published in 1923 , it did not gain the popular acclaim of the Garibaldi volumes , probably because Trevelyan felt less at home with Manin , the bourgeois lawyer , than with Garibaldi , the filibuster .
The complexities of Venetian politics eluded him , but the story of the revolution itself is told in restrained measures , with no superfluous passages and only an occasional overemphasis of the part played by its leading figure .
If it is not one of his best books , it can only be considered unsatisfactory when compared with his own Garibaldi .
Already Trevelyan had begun to parallel his nineteenth-century Italian studies with several works on English figures of the same period .
First The Life Of John Bright appeared and seven years later Lord Grey Of The Reform Bill .
Of the two , The Life Of Bright is incomparably the better biography .
Trevelyan centers too exclusively on Bright , is insufficiently appreciative of the views of Bright's opponents and critics , and makes light of the genuine difficulties faced by Peel .
Yet he is right when he claims in his autobiography that he drew the real features of the man , his tender and selfless motives and his rugged fearless strength .
In the story of Bright and the Corn Law agitation , the Crimean War , the American Civil War , and the franchise struggle Trevelyan reflects something of the moral power which enabled this independent man to exercise so immense an influence over his fellow countrymen for so long .
Because Bright's speeches were so much a part of him , there are long and numerous quotations , which , far from making the biography diffuse , help to give us the feel of the man .
Associated in a sense with the Manchester School through his mother's family , Trevelyan conveys in this biography something of its moral conviction and drive .
Nineteenth-century virtues , however , seem somehow to have gone out of fashion and the Bright book has never been particularly popular .
The biography of Lord Grey is strictly speaking not a biography at all .
It is a Whig history of the `` Tory reaction '' which preceded the Reform Bill of 1832 , and it uses the figure of Grey to give some unity to the narrative .
The volume is a piece of passionate special pleading , written with the heat -- and often with the wisdom , it must be said -- of a Liberal damning the shortsightedness of politicians from 1782 to 1832 .
Characteristically , Trevelyan enjoyed writing the work .
The theme of glorious summer coming after a long winter of discontent and repression was , he has told us , congenial to his artistic sense .
And Grey's Northumberland background was close to Trevelyan's own .
But his concentration on personalities and his categorical assessment of their actions fail to convey the political complexities of a long generation harassed by world-wide war and confronted with the problem of adjustment to an unprecedented industrial and social transformation .
Some historians have found his point of view not to their taste , others have complained that he makes the Tory tradition appear `` contemptible rather than intelligible '' , while a sympathetic critic has remarked that the `` intricate interplay of social dynamics and political activity of which , at times , politicians are the ignorant marionettes is not a field for the exercise of his talents '' .
The Liberal-Radical heritage which informs all of Trevelyan's interpretations of history here seems clearly to have distorted the issues and oversimplified the period .
For once his touch deserted him .
Research in the period of Grey and Bright led naturally to a more ambitious work .
Britain in the nineteenth century is a textbook designed `` to give the sense of continuous growth , to show how economic led to social , and social to political change , how the political events reacted on the economic and social , and how new thoughts and new ideals accompanied or directed the whole complicated process '' .
The plan is admirably fulfilled for the period up to 1832 .
More temperately than in the study of Grey and despite his Liberal bias , Trevelyan vividly sketches the England of pre-French Revolution days , portrays the stresses and strains of the revolutionary period in rich colors , and brings developments leading to the Reform Bill into sharp and clear focus .
His technique is genuinely masterful .
By what one reader called a `` series of dissolving views '' , he merges one period into another and gives a sense of continuous growth .
But after 1832 , the narrative tends to lose its balanced , many-sided quality and to become a medley of topics , often unconnected by any single thread .
Economic analysis was never Trevelyan's strong point and the England of the industrial transformation cries out for economic analysis .
Yet after 1832 , the interrelations of economic and social and political affairs become blurred and the narrative becomes largely a conventional political account .
Finally , the period after 1870 receives little attention and that quite superficial .
Yet Britain In The Nineteenth Century became the vade mecum of beginning students of history , went through edition after edition , and continues to be reprinted up to the very present .
Its success is a tribute , above all , to Trevelyan's brilliance as a literary stylist .
In 1924 Trevelyan traveled to the United States , where he delivered the Lowell lectures at Harvard University .
These lectures formed the nucleus of a general survey of English development which took form afterward as A History Of England .
In short order , the general history became his most popular work and has remained , aside from his later Social history , the work most widely favored by the public .
The History Of England has often been compared with Green's Short History .
Like Green , Trevelyan aimed to write a history not of `` English kings or English conquests '' , but of the English people .
The result was fortunate .
The History takes too much for granted to serve as a text for other than English schoolboys , and like Britain in the nineteenth century it deteriorates badly as it goes beyond 1870 .
Trevelyan's excursions into contemporary history were rarely happy ones .
But as a stimulating , provocative interpretation of the broad sweep of English development it is incomparable .
Living pictures of the early boroughs , country life in Tudor and Stuart times , the impact of the industrial revolution compete with sensitive surveys of language and literature , the common law , parliamentary development .
The strength of the History is also its weakness .
Trevelyan is militantly sure of the superiority of English institutions and character over those of other peoples .
His nationalism was not a new characteristic , but its self-consciousness , even its self-satisfaction , is more obvious in a book that stretches over the long reach of English history .
And yet the elements which capture his liberal and humanistic imagination are those which make the English story worth telling and worth remembering .
Tolerance and compromise , social justice and civil liberty , are today too often in short supply for one to be overly critical of Trevelyan's emphasis on their central place in the English tradition .
Like most major works of synthesis , The History Of England is informed by the positive views of a first-class mind , and this is surely a major work .
Four years after the publication of The History Of England , the first volume of Trevelyan's Queen Anne trilogy appeared .
By now he had become Regius Professor of Modern History at Cambridge and had been honored by the award of the Order of Merit .
His academic duties had little evident effect on his prolific pen .
Blenheim was followed in rapid succession by Ramillies And The Union With Scotland and by The Peace And The Protestant Succession , the three forming together a detailed picture of England under Queen Anne .
Like his volume on Wycliffe , the work was accompanied by the publication of a selected group of documents , in this case illustrative of the history of Queen Anne's reign down to 1707 .
Trevelyan was at least in part attracted to the period by an almost unconscious desire to take up the story where Macaulay's History Of England had broken off .
In addition , he believed in the `` dramatic unity and separateness of the period from 1702-14 , lying between the Stuart and Hanoverian eras with a special ethos of its own '' .
He saw the age as one in which Britain `` settled her free constitution '' and attained her modern place in the world .
To most observers , there is little doubt that he placed an artificial strait jacket of unity upon the years of Anne's reign which in reality existed only in the pages of his history .
Of the three volumes , Blenheim is easily the best .
In four opening chapters reminiscent of Macaulay's famous third chapter , Trevelyan surveys the state of England at the opening of the eighteenth century .
His delightful picture of society and institutions is filled with warm detail that brings the period vividly to life .
He tends to underestimate -- or perhaps to view charitably -- the brutality and the violence of the age , so that there is an idyllic quality in these pages which hazes over some of its sharp reality .
Yet as an evocation of time past , there are few such successful portraits in English historical literature .
Once the scene is set , Trevelyan skilfully builds up the tense story until it reaches its climax in the dramatic victory of Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy at Blenheim .
The account of the battle is , next to his descriptions of Garibaldi's campaigns , Trevelyan's outstanding military narrative .
The scene is etched in sharp detail , the military problems brilliantly explained , and the excitement and importance of the battle made evident .
If only for this modest masterpiece of military history , Blenheim is likely to be read and reread long after newer interpretations have perhaps altered our picture of the Marlborough wars .
Ramillies And The Union With Scotland has fewer high spots than Blenheim and much less of its dramatic unity .
Yet in several chapters on Scotland in the eighteenth century , Trevelyan copes persuasively with the tangled confusion of Scottish politics against a vivid background of Scottish religion , customs , and traditions .
I stood on a table , surrounded by hundreds of expectant young faces .
Questions came to me from all sides about my world citizenship activities .
After making a short statement about human rights , and the freedom to travel , I told them I would be going to the Kehl bridge the next morning in order to cross the Rhine into Germany .
`` May we come with you '' ? ?
Called out a dozen young voices .
`` Well , I might not get that far '' , I told them , `` as actually I have no papers to enter Germany and , as a matter of fact , no permit to return to France once I leave '' .
That was all they needed .
They would champion me .
We would all meet at ten o'clock at the Kehl bridge , five miles from Strasbourg , and march triumphantly across into Germany .
There was only one hitch : the small town of Kehl , on the other side of the Rhine , was still under French jurisdiction .
The real Franco-German frontier was beyond the town's limits .
In fact , all persons were permitted to cross the Rhine into Kehl , there being no sentry posted on the west side of the river .
That evening , as I learned later , the students , enjoying that spontaneous immodesty in action known only to university students , surged out onto the streets of Strasbourg , overturning empty streetcars , marking up store fronts , and shouting imprudently , `` Garry Davis to power '' ! !
As I got off the trolley at Kehl bridge the next morning , I was met by what looked like 5,000 students , some of whom were carrying sticks apparently for the coming `` battle '' with the police .
Alarmed by this display of weapons , I looked toward the bridge and there saw , stretched across the near side , a cordon of policemen , their bicycles forming a roadblock before which stood several French officers in uniform and a small waspish man in a brown derby .
`` Listen please '' , I called to the students in French .
`` I thank you most heartily for being here .
This is full evidence of your support for my principles .
These principles , however , will not be served by violence in any form .
If they are right , they will prevail of and by themselves .
I ask you all to support me in this .
If one finger is raised against the authorities , all our moral power will vanish .
Your self-control in this respect will be the only witness to your understanding of what I am saying .
I have full confidence in you .
Now , let's go '' .
I marched up to the waiting officials , the students massed behind me .
As usual , the press photographers were on hand .
The waspish man stopped me three paces from the bicycle barricade , and asked me in French if I had papers to leave France .
I replied in the affirmative , taking out my recently acquired titre d'identite et de voyage , on which was stamped a permission to leave France .
He examined it carefully , handed it back and said , `` Eh bien , you may leave France '' .
I took one step eastward .
One of the uniformed officers stepped in my way , demanding to know whether I had permission to enter Germany .
`` No , I have no permission to enter Germany '' , I told him .
`` Alors , you may go no farther '' , he said imperiously .
`` Is this then the frontier '' ? ?
I asked him .
`` Yes '' .
At this , the students let out a yell , knowing full well the actual frontier was beyond the town of Kehl .
`` But I have no permission to re-enter France , and I have just left '' , I told him .
`` I must then be standing on the line between France and Germany '' .
The waspish man stepped forward .
`` Line ? ?
Line ? ?
But there is no line between France and Germany , that is , no actual line .
I mean ''
`` No line '' ? ?
I asked .
`` But if there is no line , how can there be two countries ? ?
You have just given me permission to leave France , which I did .
I have witnesses .
And as you know , I have no permission to re-enter France once out .
Now I learn I cannot enter Germany .
Obviously I'm stuck on the line between the two countries '' .
The students were laughing uproariously at this piece of logic , and even the policemen were trying hard not to smile .
`` Mais non '' , the Interior Ministry man coaxed , `` you may come back to Strasbourg , now , if you wish '' .
`` Oh ? ?
Then will you give me a visa to re-enter France '' ? ?
`` Visa ? ?
But there is no question of a visa .
You are still in France '' .
`` Ah , then please tell me where the frontier is because this gentleman here '' -- I indicated the French occupation officer -- `` informs me that Germany is just on the other side of him '' .
The Interior man looked uneasily at his French compatriot .
From the crowd were coming cries of `` He's right '' ! !
`` There must be a line '' ! !
And `` Bravo , Garry , continue '' ! !
Seeing their hesitation , I said , `` Well , until I have permission to enter Germany , or a visa to re-enter France , I shall be obliged to remain here on the line between two countries '' , whereupon I moved to the side of the road , parked my backpack against the small guardhouse on the sidewalk , sat down , took out my typewriter , and began typing the above conversation .
The reporters were questioning the Interior man and the French officer , both of whom remained noncommittal as to what action , if any , would be taken in my regard .
Finally they went off to file their stories , after the photographers had taken pictures of my latest vigil .
The students crowded around asking questions , slapping me on the back , and generally being friendly .
`` But what will you do this evening , Mr. Davis '' ? ?
Asked a young mustached Frenchman .
`` It will be very cold '' .
`` I don't know '' , I told him , `` except that I will be here '' .
`` I shall see about getting you a tent '' , he said .
`` I have a small sports shop in Strasbourg '' .
That would be a great help , I told him , thanking him for his thoughtfulness .
A special guard was posted at my end of the bridge to make sure I didn't cross , the ludicrousness of the situation being revealed fully in that everyone else -- men , women , and children , dogs , cats , horses , cars , trucks , baby carriages -- could cross Kehl bridge into Kehl without surveillance .
The day passed eventfully enough , with a constant stream of visitors , some stopping only to say hello , others getting into serious conversations , such as one Andre Fuchs , a free-lance journalist from Strasbourg who wrote an article for the Nouvelle Alsatian in highly sympathetic terms .
Some students from the University returned around six with a large pot containing enough hot soup to last me a week .
A volunteer food brigade had been arranged , they told me , which would supply me with the necessities as long as I remained at the bridge .
A little later , the sports shop man returned with a small pup tent .
One of the girl students , sitting by while I ate the thick soup , asked me if I had a sleeping bag .
When I informed her that I didn't , she said she would borrow her brother's and bring it to me later that evening .
`` You do not know me '' , she said in good English , `` but my mother was your governess in Philadelphia when you were a child '' .
Her name was Esther Peter .
I was delighted to make that personal contact in such trying and unusual circumstances .
The Peter family proved wonderful and helpful friends in the following days , Mrs. Peter , little Esther , and Raoul , who generously lent me his sleeping bag for my `` Watch on the Rhine '' .
Sighting a line from the bridge to a small field directly to the side , I pitched the tent that evening on the stateless `` line '' , digging a small trench around it as best I could with a toy spade donated by a neighborhood child .
The wind from the Rhine was damp and chill , necessitating a fire for warmth .
After scouring around a bit in the open area , I came across what proved to be tar-soaked logs which crackled and burned brightly , giving off vast rolls of smoke into the ashen sky .
Each evening the students appeared with the soup kettle and several petits pains , Esther usually being among them .
I had advised friends to write me to `` No Man's Land , Pont Kehl , Between Strasbourg and Kehl , France-Germany '' .
Sure enough , mail began trickling in , delivered by a talkative , highly amused French postman who informed me there had been quite a debate at the post office as to whether that address would be recognized .
On Christmas Eve , students brought out two small Christmas trees which I placed on either side of the tent .
As the field on which my tent was pitched was a favorite natural playground for the kids of the neighborhood , I had made many friends among them , taking part in their after-school games and trying desperately to translate Grimm's Fairy Tales into an understandable French as we gathered around the fire in front of the tent .
To my great surprise and delight , when they saw the two trees they went rushing off , returning shortly with decorations from their own trees .
It was a merry if somewhat soggy Christmas for me that year .
In the mail were invitations to speak at the universities of Cologne , Heidelberg , and Baden-Baden .
Twenty thousand world citizens at Stuttgart had signed a petition inviting me to visit their town .
When Dr. Adenauer was approached by a world citizen delegation to find out his disposition of my case , he gave them his personal approval of my entry , saying that all men advocating peace should be welcomed into Germany .
The special guard , however , was still posted on Kehl bridge .
As it began raining at around eight o'clock on December 26th , I retired into my tent early , somewhat tired and discouraged , my body reacting sluggishly because of the continued exposure .
No matter how large the fire , I couldn't seem to shake off the chill that day .
`` Oh , Mr. Davis , are you there '' ? ?
A voice drifted in to me above the patter of the rain shortly after I had fallen into a fitful sleep .
`` Who is it '' ? ?
`` We're from the Council of Europe , British delegation .
May we have a word with you '' ? ?
`` I'm sorry .
I've had a trying day and I just can't make it out again '' , I told them .
I heard nothing more .
Later I learned that Sir Hugh Dalton had expressed a desire to see me , hence their trip to `` No Man's Land '' .
On the evening of December 27th , Esther noticed my pallid look and rasping voice .
She entreated me to see a doctor , and when I refused , brought one out to see me .
He advised immediate hospitalization .
I wouldn't hear of it because it meant giving up the `` line '' , though I realized I was in poor shape physically .
Esther , mistaking my hesitation , assured me that the hospital expense would be taken care of by a leading merchant in Strasbourg whom she had already approached .
`` No , it's not that '' , I told her .
`` You see , once I relinquish the position I've already established here , I couldn't regain it without sacrificing the logic of it '' .
At that moment , up walked a tall young man with glasses who announced himself as a world citizen from Basel , Switzerland .
Without preliminaries , Esther asked him , `` If you are a world citizen , will you take Garry Davis' place in his tent while he goes to the hospital '' ? ?
`` But of course , with pleasure '' , he replied .
Esther looked at me .
I looked from her to him .
`` What is your name '' ? ?
I asked him .
`` Jean Babel '' .
`` Shake '' , I said .
`` You have just enlisted for the ' Rhine Campaign ' '' .
Esther jumped up , ran to him and gave him a little hug .
`` I am so happy .
Now come , Garry , we must go quickly .
There is a police car outside .
Maybe they will take us '' .
Such were the incongruities of the situation that the very police assigned to check up on me were drafted into driving me to the Strasbourg Hospital while World Citizen Jean Babel waved adieu from the `` Line '' ! !
He remembered every detail of his pre-assault movements but nothing of the final , desperate rush to come to grips with the enemy .
When the victory cheer went up this officer found himself still mounted , with his horse pressed broadside against Cleburne's log parapet in a tangled group of infantrymen .
His hat was gone , the tears were streaming from his eyes .
He never knew how he got there .
Six climactic minutes in an individual's life left no memory .
Eight hundred and sixty-five Rebels surrendered within their works and a thousand more were captured or surrendered themselves that night and the next day .
Eight field guns were captured in position .
Seven battle flags and fourteen officers' swords were sent to Thomas' headquarters .
It was the only sizable assault upon infantry and artillery behind breastworks successfully made by either side during the Atlanta campaign .
The Fourteenth Regiment of Ohio Volunteers lost one-third of its numbers within a few minutes , among them being several men whose time of service had expired but who had volunteered to advance with their regiment .
The Thirty-eighth Regiment of Ohio Volunteers , one of the regiments in Thomas' First Division during Buell's command , suffered its greatest loss of the war in this action .
A popular belief grew up after the war that the only time during the Civil War that Thomas ever put his horse to a gallop was when he went to hurry up Stanley for this assault .
Sherman was responsible for the story when he said in his memoirs that this was the only time he could recall seeing Thomas ride so fast .
While Thomas' injured back led him to restrain his mount from its most violent gait he moved quickly enough when he had to .
It is not in the record , but he must have galloped his horse at Peach Tree Creek when he brought up Ward's guns to save Newton's crumbling line .
While the final combat of the campaign was being worked out at Jonesborough , Thomas , on Sherman's instructions , ordered Slocum , now commanding the Twentieth Corps , to make an effort to occupy Atlanta if he could do so without exposing his bridgehead to a counterattack .
The dispatch must have been sent after sundown on September 1 .
Slocum made his reconnaissanace the next morning , found the town empty , accepted the surrender of the mayor and occupied the city a little before noon .
On the morning of September 2 the Fourth Corps and the Armies of the Tennessee and the Ohio followed the line of Hardee's retreat .
About noon they came up with the enemy two miles from Lovejoy's Station and deployed .
The Fourth Corps assaulted and carried a small portion of the enemy works but could not hold possession of the gain for want of cooperation from the balance of the line .
That night a note written in Slocum's hand and dated from inside the captured city came to Sherman stating that the Twentieth Corps was in possession of Atlanta .
Before making the news public Sherman sent an officer with the note to Thomas .
In a short time the officer returned and Thomas followed on his heels .
The cautious Thomas re-examined the note and then , making up his mind that it was genuine , snapped his fingers , whistled and almost danced in his exuberance .
The next day Sherman issued his orders ending the campaign and pulled his armies back to Atlanta .
The measure of combat efficiency in an indecisive campaign is a matter of personal choice .
Sherman laid great store by place captures .
Hood refused to notice anything except captured guns and colors .
By both standards Thomas had the right to be proud .
Thomas thanked his men for their tenacity of purpose , unmurmuring endurance , cheerful obedience , brilliant heroism and high qualities in battle .
Sherman felt that his own part in the campaign was skillful and well executed but that the slowness of a part of his army robbed him of the larger fruits of victory .
He supposed the military world would approve of his accomplishment .
Whatever the military world thought , the political world approved it wholeheartedly .
For some time , despondency in some Northern quarters had been displayed in two ways -- an eagerness for peace and a dissatisfaction with Lincoln .
Proposals were in the air for a year's armistice .
Lincoln was sure that he would not be re-elected .
In the midst of this gloom , at 10:05 P.M. on September 2 , Slocum's telegram to Stanton , `` General Sherman has taken Atlanta '' , shattered the talk of a negotiated peace and boosted Lincoln into the White House .
To the Republicans no victory could have been more complete .
Official congratulations showered upon Sherman and his army .
Lincoln mentioned their distinguished ability , courage and perseverance .
He felt that this campaign would be famous in the annals of war .
Grant called it prompt , skillful and brilliant .
Halleck described it as the most brilliant of the war .
Actually the Atlanta campaign was a military failure .
Next best to destroying an army is to deprive it of its freedom of action .
Sherman had accomplished this much of his job and then inexplicably nullified it by his thirty-mile retreat from Lovejoy's to Atlanta .
But , so far as its territorial objectives were concerned , the campaign was successful .
Within the narrow frame of military tactics , too , the experts agree that the campaign was brilliant .
In seventeen weeks the military front was driven southward more than 100 miles .
There was a battle on an average of once every three weeks .
The skirmishing was almost constant .
In the summary of the principal events of the campaign compiled from the official records there are only ten days which show no fighting .
The casualties in the Army of the Cumberland were 22,807 , while for all three armies they were 37,081 .
Men were killed in their camps , at their meals and in their sleep .
Rifle fire often kept the opposing gunners from manning their pieces .
Modern warfare was born in this campaign -- periscopes , camouflage , booby traps , land mines , extended order , trench raids , foxholes , armored cars , night attacks , flares , sharpshooters in trees , interlaced vines and treetops , which were the forerunners of barbed wire , trip wires to thwart a cavalry charge , which presaged the mine trap , and the general use of anesthetics .
The use of map coordinates was begun when the senior officers began to select tactical points by designating a spot as `` near the letter o in the word mountain '' .
A few weeks later the maps were being divided into squares and a position was described as being `` about lots 239 , 247 and 272 with pickets forward as far as 196 '' .
This system was dependent upon identical maps and Thomas supplied them from a mobile lithograph press .
Orders of the day began to specify the standard map for the movement .
Sherman proved that a railway base could be movable and the most brilliant feature of the Atlanta campaign was the rapid repair of the tracks .
To the Rebels it seemed as if Sherman carried tunnels and bridges in his pockets .
The whistle of Sherman's locomotives often drowned out the rattle of the skirmish fire .
As always , the ranks worked out new and better tactics , but there was brilliance in the way the field commands adopted these methods and in the way the army commanders incorporated them into their military thinking .
The fossilized , formalized , precedent-based thinking of the legendary military brain was not evident in Sherman's armies .
Sherman could never be accused of sticking too long with the old .
One of Sherman's most serious shortcomings , however , was his mistrust of his cavalry .
He never saw that it was a complement to his infantry and not a substitute for it .
Then , in some way , this lack of faith in the cavalry became mixed up in his mind with the dragging effect of wagon trains and was hardened into a prejudice .
A horse needed twenty pounds of food a day but the infantryman got along with two pounds .
The horseman required eleven times more than the footman .
So Sherman tried a compromise .
He would ship by rail five pounds per day per animal and the other fifteen pounds that were needed could be picked up off the country .
It failed to work .
Already debilitated by the Chattanooga starvation , the quality of Sherman's horseflesh ran downhill as the campaign progressed .
Every recorded request by Thomas for a delay in a flank movement or an advance was to gain time to take care of his horses .
Well led , properly organized cavalry , in its complementary role to infantry , had four functions .
First , it could locate the enemy infantry , learn what they were doing , and hold them until the heavy foot columns could come up and take over .
Second , it could screen its own infantry from the sight of the enemy .
Third , it could threaten at all times , and destroy when possible , the enemy communications .
It could reach key tactical points faster than infantry and destroy them or hold them as the case might be for the foot soldier .
Its climactic role was to pursue and demoralize a defeated enemy but this chance never came in the Atlanta campaign .
Thomas tried hard to have his cavalry ready for the test it was to meet , but his plans were wrecked when it was forced into a campaign without optimum mobility and with its commander stripped from it .
Sherman knew the uses of cavalry as well as Thomas but he imagined a moving base with infantry wings instead of cavalry wings .
His conception proved workable but slower and it enabled his enemy to make clean , deft , well organized retreats with small materiel losses .
Sherman insisted that cavalry could not successfully break up hostile railways , yet Garrard's Covington raid and Rousseau's Opelika raid cut two-thirds of the rail lines he had to break and Sherman lived in mortal fear of what Forrest might do to his communications .
When McPherson pushed blindly through Snake Creek Gap in a potentially decisive movement , the only cavalry in his van was the Ninth Illinois Mounted Infantry , totally inadequate for its role .
It stumbled on infantry where no infantry should have been and McPherson's aggressive impulse faded out , overwhelmed by fears of the unknown .
A proper cavalry command in his front would have developed the fact that he had run into one division of Polk's Army of the Mississippi moving up from the direction of Mobile to join Johnston at Dalton .
From the night of August 30 to the morning of September 2 there was no Union cavalry east of the Macon railway to disclose to Sherman that he was missing the greatest opportunity of his career .
A great part of the time , Thomas' infantry never knew the location of the enemy line .
At such times Thomas wondered when and where a counterattack would strike him .
It was the hard way to fight a war but Thomas did it without making any disastrous mistakes .
Heat during the Atlanta campaign , coupled with unsuitable clothing , caused individual irritation that was compounded by a lack of opportunity to bathe and shift into clean clothing .
To relieve the itch and sweat galls , the men got into the water whenever they could and since each sizable stream was generally the dividing line between the armies the pickets declared a private truce while the men went swimming .
Johnston believed that Sherman put his naked engineers into the swimming parties to locate the various fords .
Lieutenant Colonel James P. Brownlow , who commanded the First Brigade of Thomas' First Cavalry Division , was ordered across one of these fords .
The water was deep and Brownlow took his troopers across naked -- except for guns , cartridge boxes and hats .
They kicked their horses through the deep water with their bare heels , drove the Rebels out of their rifle pits and captured four men .
Most of the Rebels got away since they could make better time through the stiff brush than their naked pursuers .
Rank was becoming an explosive issue in all three of Sherman's armies .
Merited recommendations from army commanders were passed over in favor of political appointees from civil life .
In one of the very few letters in which he ever complained of Meynell , Thompson told Patmore of his distress at having had to leave London before this new friendship had developed further : ``
That was a very absurd and annoying situation in which I was placed by W. M.'s curious methods of handling me .
He never let me know that my visit was about to terminate until the actual morning I was to leave for Lymington .
The result was that I found myself in the ridiculous position of having made a formal engagement by letter for the next week , only two days before my departure from London .
Luckily both women knew my position and if anyone suffered in their opinion it was not I '' .
It need hardly be remarked that Thompson was not generally known for his scrupulosity about keeping his social engagements , which makes his irritation in this letter all the more significant .
When Thompson and her daughter began a correspondence which included fervent verses from Pantasaph , Mrs. King felt a proper Victorian alarm .
Some , she knew , looked upon Thompson almost as a saint , but others read in `` The Hound Of Heaven '' what they took to be the confessions of a great sinner , who , like Oscar Wilde , had -- as one pious writer later put it -- thrown himself `` on the swelling wave of every passion '' .
Consequently , on October 31 , 1896 , Mrs. King wrote to Thompson , quite against her daughter's wishes , asking him not to `` recommence a correspondence which I believe has been dropped for some weeks '' .
Katherine was staying at a convent , and her mother felt that , as Thompson himself seems to have suggested , she might eventually stay there .
This prospect did not please Mrs. King any more than did the possibility that her daughter might marry a Bohemian , but she used it to suggest to Thompson that , `` It is not in her nature to love you '' .
For his part , Thompson had explained in a previous letter that there would be nothing but an honorable friendship between Katie and himself .
At no time does he seem to have proposed marriage , and Mrs. King was evidently torn between a concern for her daughter's emotions and the desire to believe that the friendship might be continued without harm to her reputation .
In any case , she told Thompson that she saw no reason why he might not see Katie again , `` now that this frank explanation has been made & no one can misunderstand '' .
She ended her letter with the assurance that she considered his friendship for her daughter and herself to be an honor , from which she could not part `` without still more pain '' .
After Thompson came to London to live , he received a letter from Katie , which was dated February 8 , 1897 .
She regretted what she described as the `` unwarrantable & unnecessary '' check to their friendship and said that she felt that they understood one another perfectly .
This letter concluded with an invitation : ``
I am a great deal at the little children's Hospital .
Mr. Meynell knows the way .
I know you are very busy now , you are writing a great deal & your book is coming out , isn't it ? ?
But if you are able & care to come , you know how glad I shall be .
Ever yours sincerely ,
Katherine Douglas King '' The invitation was accepted and other letters followed , in which she spoke of her concern for his health and her delight in seeing him so much at home among the crippled children she served .
It is difficult to say what Thompson expected would come of their relationship , which had begun so soon after his emotions had been stirred by Maggie Brien , but when Katie wrote on April 11 , 1900 , to tell him that she was to be married to the Rev. Godfrey Burr , the vicar of Rushall in Staffordshire , the news evidently helped to deepen his discouragement over the failure of his hopes for a new volume of verse .
In a letter to Meynell , which was written in June , less than a month before Katie's wedding , he was highly melodramatic in his despair and once again announced his intention of returning to the life of the streets : ``
A week in arrears , and without means to pay , I must go , it is the only right thing .
Perhaps Mrs. Meynell would do me the undeserved kindness to keep my own copy of the first edition of my first book , with all its mementos of her and the dear ones .
Last , not least , there are some poems which K. King sent me ( addressed to herself ) when I was preparing a fresh volume , asking me to include them .
The terrible blow of the New Year put an end to that project .
I wish you would return them to her .
I have not the heart .
I never had the courage to look at them , when my projected volume became hopeless , fearing they were poor , until now when I was obliged to do so .
O my genius , young and ripening , you would swear , -- when I wrote them ; ;
and now ! !
What has it all come to ? ?
All chance of fulfilling my destiny is over .
I want you to be grandfather to these orphaned poems , dear father-brother , now I am gone ; ;
and launch them on the world when their time comes .
For them a box will be lodgment enough .
Katie cannot mind your seeing them now ; ;
since my silence must have ended when I gave the purposed volume to you .
I ask you to do me the last favour of reading them by 8 to-morrow evening , about which time I shall come to say my sad good-bye .
If you don't think much of them , tell me the wholesome truth .
If otherwise , you will give me a pleasure .
O Wilfrid ! !
It is strange ; ;
but this -- yes , terrible step I am about to take is lightened with an inundating joy by the new-found hope that here , in these poems , is treasure -- or at least some measure of beauty , which I did not know of '' .
Thompson , of course , was persuaded not to take the `` terrible step '' ; ;
Meynell once again paid his debts and it was Katie , rather than Thompson , whose life was soon ended , for she died in childbirth in April , 1901 , in the first year of her marriage .
The `` orphaned poems '' mentioned in the letter to Meynell comprised a group of five sonnets , which were published in the 1913 edition of Thompson's works under the heading `` Ad Amicam '' , plus certain other completed pieces and rough drafts gathered together in one of the familiar exercise books .
The publication of Father Connolly's The Man Has Wings has made more of the group available in print so that a general picture of what it contained can now be had without difficulty .
Some of the poems express a mood of joy in a newly discovered love ; ;
others suggest its coming loss or describe the poet's feelings when he learns of a final separation .
The somewhat Petrarchan love story which these poems suggest cannot obscure the fact that undoubtedly they have more than a little of autobiographical sincerity .
When they were first written , there was evidently no thought of their being published , and those which refer to the writer's love for Mrs. Meynell particularly have the ring of truth .
In `` My Song's Young Virgin Date '' , for example , Thompson wrote : `` Yea , she that had my song's young virgin date Not now , alas , that noble singular she , I nobler hold , though marred from her once state , Than others in their best integrity .
My own stern hand has rent the ancient bond , And thereof shall the ending not have end : But not for me , that loved her , to be fond Lightly to please me with a newer friend Then hold it more than bravest-feathered song , That I affirm to thee , with heart of pride , I knew not what did to a friend belong Till I stood up , true friend , by thy true side ; ;
Whose absence dearer comfort is , by far , Than presences of other women are '' ! !
Taking into account Thompson's capacity for self-dramatization and the possibility of a wish to identify his own life with the misfortunes of other poets who had known unhappy loves , there can be no doubt about his genuine emotion for Katie King .
That she was affected by his protestations seems obvious , but since she was evidently a sensible young woman -- as well as an outgoing and sympathetic type -- it would seem that for her the word friendship had a far less intense emotional significance than that which Thompson gave it .
From the outset , she must have realized that marriage with him was out of the question , and although she was displeased by the `` unwarrantable '' interference , it seems probable that she did agree with her mother's suggestion that the poet was `` perhaps '' a man `` most fitted to live & die solitary , & in the love only of the Highest Lover '' .
The poems which were addressed to her , while they are far more restrained than those of `` Love In Dian's Lap '' , show no great technical advance over those of the `` Narrow Vessel '' group and are , if anything , somewhat more labored .
Their interest remains chiefly biographical , for they throw some light on the utter despair which overtook Thompson in the spring and early summer of 1900 .
Whether or not Danchin is correct in suggesting that Thompson's resumption of the opium habit also dates from this period is , of course , a matter of conjecture .
Reid simply states , without offering any supporting evidence , that `` after he returned to London , he resumed his draughts of laudanum , and continued this right up to his death '' .
There is every reason to recognize that in the very last years of his life , as we shall see , Thompson did take the drug in carefully rationed doses to ease the pains of his illness , but the exact date at which this began has never been determined .
If , as Reid says , `` nearly all his poetry was produced when he was not taking opium '' , there may be some reason to doubt that he was under its influence in the period from 1896 to 1900 when he was writing the poems to Katie King and making plans for another book of verse .
In any event , the critical productivity of that time is abundant proof that if he was taking laudanum , it was never in command of him to the extent that it had been during his vagrant years .
Meynell's remedy for Thompson's despondent mood was typically practical .
He simply found more work for him to do , and the articles and reviews continued without an evident break .
3 ,
As a reviewer , Thompson generally displayed a judicious attitude .
That he read some of the books assigned to him with a studied carefulness is evident from his notes , which are often so full that they provide an unquestionable basis for the identification of reviews that were printed without his signature .
On the basis of this careful reading , Thompson frequently gave a clear , complete , and interesting description of a prose work or chose effective quotations to illustrate his discussions of poetry .
He was seldom an unmethodical critic , and his reviews generally followed a systematic pattern : a description of what the work contained , a treatment of the things that had especially interested him in it , and , wherever possible , a balancing of whatever artistic merits and faults he might have found .
It was , of course , in this drawing of the balance sheet of judgment that he most clearly displayed his desire to do full justice to an author .
Reviewing Davidson's The Testament Of An Empire Builder , for example , Thompson found that there was `` too much metrical dialectic '' .
Poetry , he said , must be `` dogmatic '' : it must not stoop to argue like a `` K.C. in cloth-of-gold '' .
Yet Davidson impressed him as a poet capable of `` sustained power , passion , or beauty '' , and he cited specific passages to illustrate not only these qualities but Davidson's command of imagery as well .
Similarly , he wrote that Laurence Housman had a `` too deliberate manner '' as well as a lack of `` inevitable felicity in diction '' .
But he admired Housman's `` subtle intellectuality '' and delighted in the inversion by which Divine Love becomes the most `` fatal '' allurement in `` Love The Tempter '' .
Of course , there were books about which nothing good could be said .
Understanding , as he did , the difficulty of the art of poetry , and believing that the `` only technical criticism worth having in poetry is that of poets '' , he felt obliged to insist upon his duty to be hard to please when it came to the review of a book of verse .
As he had done on his first Imperial sortie a year and a half before , Lewis trekked southeast through Red Russia to Kamieniec .
Thence he pushed farther south than he had ever been before into Podolia and Nogay Tartary or the Yedisan .
There , along the east bank of the Southern Bug , opposite the hamlet of Zhitzhakli a few miles north of the Black Sea , he arrived at General Headquarters of the Russian Army .
By June 19 , 1788 , he had presented himself to its Commander in Chief , the Governor of the Southern Provinces , the Director of the War College -- The Prince .
Catherine's first war against the Grand Turk had ended in 1774 with a peace treaty quite favorable to her .
By 1783 her legions had managed to annex the Crimea amid scenes of wanton cruelty and now , in this second combat with the Crescent , were aiming at suzerainty over all of the Black Sea's northern shoreline .
Through most of 1787 operations on both sides had been lackadaisical ; ;
those of 1788 were going to prove decisive , though many of their details are obscure .
To consolidate what her Navy had won , the Czarina was fortunate that , for the first time in Russian history , her land forces enjoyed absolute unity of command under her favorite Giaour .
Potemkin was directing this conflict on three fronts : in the Caucasus ; ;
along the Danube and among the Carpathians , in alliance with the Emperor Joseph's armies ; ;
and in the misty marshlands and shallow coastal waters of Nogay Tartary and Taurida , including the Crimean peninsula .
Here the war would flame to its focus , and here Lewis Littlepage had come .
Potemkin's Army of Ekaterinoslav , totaling , it was claimed , 40,000 regular troops and 6,000 irregulars of the Cossack Corps , had invested Islam's principal stronghold on the north shore of the Black Sea , the fortress town of Oczakov , and was preparing to test the Turk by land and sea .
During a sojourn of slightly more than three months Chamberlain Littlepage could see action on both elements .
As his second in command The Prince had Marshal Repnin , one-time Ambassador to Poland .
Repnin , who had a rather narrow face , longish nose , high forehead , and arching brows , looked like a quizzical Mephistopheles .
Some people thought he lacked both ability and character , but most agreed that he was noble in appearance and , for a Russian , humane .
The Marshal came to know Littlepage quite well .
At General Headquarters the newcomer in turn got to know others .
There was the Neapolitan , Ribas , a capable conniver whose father had been a blacksmith but who had fawned his way up the ladder of Catherine's and Potemkin's favor till he was now a brigadier ( and would one day be the daggerman designated to do in Czar Paul 1 , , after traveling all the way to Naples to procure just the right stiletto ) .
Then there were the distinguished foreign volunteers .
Representing the Emperor were the Prince De Ligne , still as impetuous as a youth of twenty ; ;
and General the Count Pallavicini , founder of the Austrian branch of that celebrated Italian house , a courtier Littlepage could have met at Madrid in December , 1780 .
From Milan came the young Chevalier De Litta , an officer in the service of Malta .
Out of Saxony rode the Prince of Anhalt-Bernburg , one of the Czarina's cousins and a lieutenant general in her armies , a frank , sensitive , popular soldier whose kindnesses Littlepage would `` always recall with the sincerest gratitude '' .
Though Catherine was vexed at the number of French officers streaming to the Turkish standard , there were several under her own , such as the Prince De Nassau ; ;
the energetic Parisian , Roger De Damas , three year's Littlepage's junior , to whom Nassau had taken a liking ; ;
and the artillerist , Colonel Prevost , whom the Count De Segur had persuaded to lend his technical skills to Nassau .
England contributed a young subaltern named Newton and the naval architect Samuel Bentham , brother to the economist , who for his colonel's commission was proving a godsend to the Russian fleet .
From America were the Messrs. Littlepage and Jones .
Lewis had expected to report at once to Jones's and Nassau's naval command post .
On arrival at headquarters he had , however -- in King Stanislas' words to Glayre -- `` found such favor with Pe Potemkin that he made him his aide-de-camp and up to now does not want him to go join Paul Jones .
'' So of course he stayed put .
Having done so , he began to experience all the frustrations of others who attempted to get along with Serenissimus and do a job at the same time .
The Prince's perceptions were quick and his energy monstrous , but these qualities were sapped by an Oriental lethargy and a policy of letting nothing interfere with personal passions .
At headquarters -- sufficiently far from the firing line to make you forget occasionally that you were in a war -- Lewis found that the Commander in Chief's only desk was his knees ( and his only comb , his fingers ) .
An entire theater had been set up for his diversion , with a 200-man Italian orchestra under the well-known Sarti .
In the great one's personal quarters , a portable house , almost every evening saw an elegant banquet or reception .
Lewis could let his eye caress The Prince's divan , covered with a rose-pink and silver Turkish cloth , or admire the lovely tapis , interwoven with gold , that spread across the floor .
Filigreed perfume boxes exuded the aromas of Araby .
Around the billiard tables were always at least a couple of dozen beribboned generals .
At dinner the courses were carried in by tall cuirassiers in red capes and black fur caps topped with tufts of feathers , marching in pairs like guards from a stage tragedy .
Among the visitors arriving every now and then there were , of course , women .
For if Serenissimus made the sign of the Cross with his right hand , and meant it , with his left he beckoned lewdly to any lady who happened to catch his eye .
Usually Lewis would find at headquarters one or more of The Prince's various nieces .
Right now he found Sophie De Witt , that magnificent young matron he had spotted at Kamieniec four years ago .
The Prince took her with him on every tour around the area , and it was rumored he was utilizing her knowledge of Constantinople as part of his espionage network .
One evening he passed around the banquet table a crystal cup full of diamonds , requesting every female guest to select one as a souvenir .
When a lady chanced to soil a pair of evening slippers , Brigadier Bauer was dispatched to Paris for replacements .
But if The Prince fancied women and was fascinated by foreigners , he could be haughtiness personified to his subordinates .
He had collared one of his generals in public .
His coat trimmed in sable , diamond stars of the Orders of Saints Andrew or George agleam , he was often prone to sit sulkily , eye downcast , in a Scheherazade trance .
When this happened , everything stopped .
As Littlepage noted : `` A complete picture of Prince Potemkin may be had in his 1788 operations .
He stays inactive for half the summer in front of Oczakov , a quite second-rate spot , begins to besiege it formally only during the autumn rains , and finally carries it by assault in the heart of winter .
There's a man who never goes by the ordinary road but still arrives at his goal , who gratuitously gets himself into difficulty in order to get out of it with eclat , in a word a man who creates monsters for himself in order to appear a Hercules in destroying them '' .
To help him do so The Prince had conferred control of his land forces on a soldier who was different from him in almost every respect save one : both were eccentrics of the purest ray serene .
Alexander Vasilievitch Suvorov , now in his fifty-ninth year ( ten years Potemkin's senior ) , was a thin , worn-faced person of less than medium height who looked like a professor of botany .
He had a small mouth with deep furrows on either side , a large flat nose , and penetrating blue eyes .
His gray hair was thin , his face beginning to attract a swarm of wrinkles .
He was ugly .
But Suvorov's face was also a theater of vivacity , and his tough , stooping little frame was briskness embodied .
Like all Russians he was an emotional man , and in him the emotions warred .
Kind by nature , he never refused charity to a beggar or help to anyone who asked him for it ( as Lewis would one day discover ) .
But he was perpetually engaged in a battle to command his own temper .
When Littlepage was introduced , if the General behaved as usual , the newcomer faced a staccato salvo of queries : origin ? ?
Age ? ?
Mission ? ?
Current status ? ?
Woe betide the interviewee if he answered vaguely .
Suvorov's contempt for don't-know's was proverbial ; ;
better to give an asinine answer than none at all .
Despising luxuries of any sort for a soldier , he slept on a pile of hay with his cloak as blanket .
He rose at 4:00 A.M. the year round and was apt to stride through camp crowing like a cock to wake his men .
His breakfast was tea ; ;
his dinner fell anywhere from nine to noon ; ;
his supper was nothing .
He hadn't worn a watch or carried pocket money for years because he disliked both , but highest among his hates were looking glasses : he had snatched one from an officer's grasp and smashed it to smithereens .
He kept several pet birds and liked cats well enough that if one crept by , he would mew at it in friendly fashion .
Passing dogs were greeted with a cordial bark .
Yet General Suvorov -- who had never forgotten hearing his adored Czarina declare that all truly great men had oddities -- was mad only north , northwest .
He had come to learn that a reputation for peculiarity allowed mere field officers a certain leeway at Court ; ;
in camp he knew it won you the affection of your men .
He had accordingly cultivated eccentricity to the point of second nature .
Underneath , he remained one of the best-educated Russians of his day .
He dabbled in verse , could get along well among most of the European languages , and was fluent in French and German .
He had also mastered the Cossack tongue .
For those little men with the short whiskers , shaven polls , and top knots Suvorov reserved a special esteem .
Potemkin -- as King Stanislas knew , and presently informed Littlepage -- looked on the Cossacks as geopolitical tools .
To Serenissimus such tribes as the Cossacks of the Don or those ex-bandits the Zaporogian Cossacks ( in whose islands along the lower Dnieper the Polish novelist Sienkiewicz would one day place With Fire And Sword ) were just elements for enforced resettlement in , say , Bessarabia , where , as `` the faithful of the Black Sea borders '' , he could use their presence as bargaining points in the Czarina's territorial claims against Turkey .
Suvorov saw in these scimitar-wielding skirmishers not demographic units but military men of a high potential .
He knew how to channel their exuberant disorderliness so as to transform them from mere plunderers into A-1 guerrilla fighters .
He always kept a few on his personal staff .
He often donned their tribal costumes , such as the one featuring a tall , black sheepskin hat from the top of which dangled a little red bag ornamented by a chain of worsted lace and tassels ; ;
broad red stripes down the trouser leg ; ;
broader leather belt round the waist , holding cartridges and light sabre .
Suvorov played parent not just to his Cossacks but to all his troops .
It was probably at this period that Littlepage got his first good look at the ordinary Russian soldier .
These illiterate boors conscripted from villages all across the Czarina's empire had , Suvorov may have told Lewis , just two things a commander could count on : physical fitness and personal courage .
When their levies came shambling into camp , they were all elbows , hair , and beard .
They emerged as interchangeable cogs in a faulty but formidable machine : shaved nearly naked , hair queued , greatcoated , jackbooted , and best of all -- in the opinion of the British professional , Major Semple-Lisle -- `` their minds are not estranged from the paths of obedience by those smatterings of knowledge which only serve to lead to insubordination and mutiny '' .
Mando , pleading her cause , must have said that Dr. Brown was the most distinguished physician in the United States of America , for our man poured out his symptoms and drew a madly waving line indicating the irregularity of his pulse .
`` He's got high blood pressure , too , and bum kidneys '' , the doctor said to me .
`` Transparent look , waxy skin -- could well be uremia '' .
He looked disapprovingly at an ash tray piled high with cigarette stubs , shook his head , and moved his hand back and forth in a strong negative gesture .
The little official hung his head in shame .
Seeing this , his colleague at the next desk gave a short , contemptuous laugh , pushed forward his own ash tray , innocent of a single butt , thumped his chest to show his excellent condition , and looked proud .
The doctor gravely nodded approval .
At this moment Mando came hurrying up to announce that the problem was solved and all Norton had to do was to sign a sheaf of papers .
We went out of the office and down the hall to a window where documents and more officials awaited us , the rest of the office personnel hot upon our heels .
By this time word had got around that an American doctor was on the premises .
One fellow who had liver spots held out his hands to the great healer .
It was funny but it was also touching .
`` You know '' , Norton said to me later , `` I am thinking of setting up the Klinico Brownapopolus .
I might not make any money but I'd sure have patients '' .
After luncheon we took advantage of the siesta period to try to get in touch with a few people to whom our dear friend Deppy had written .
Deppy is Despina Messinesi , a long-time member of the Vogue staff who , although born in Boston , was born there of Greek parents .
Several years of her life have been spent in the homeland , and she had written to friends to alert them of our coming .
`` All you have to do , Ilka dear , is to phone on your arrival .
They are longing to see you '' .
The wear and tear of life have taught me that very few friends of mutual friends long to see foreign strangers , but I planned on being the soul of tact , of giving them plenty of outs was there the tiniest implication that their cups were already running over without us .
My diplomacy was needless .
Greek phone service is worse than French , so that it was to be some little time before contact of any sort was established .
In the late afternoon Mando came back to fetch us , and we drove to the Acropolis .
We stopped first at the amphitheater that lies at the foot of the height crowned by the Parthenon .
The curving benches are broken , chipped , tumbled , but still in place , as are the marble chairs , the seats of honor for the legislators .
The carved statues of the frieze against the low wall are for the most part headless , but their exquisitely graceful nude and draped torsos and the kneeling Atlantes are well preserved in their perfect proportion .
Having completed our camera work , we started our climb .
I suppose the same emotion holds , if to a lesser degree , with any famous monument .
Will it live up to its reputation ? ?
The weight of fame and history is formidable , and dreary steel engravings in schoolbooks do little to quicken interest and imagination .
Uh huh , we think , looking at them , so that's the Parthenon .
And then perhaps one day we get to Athens .
We are here ! !
We've come a long way and spent a lot of money .
It had better be good .
Don't worry about the Acropolis .
It is awe-inspiring .
Probably every visitor has a favorite time for his first sight of it .
We saw it frequently afterward , but our suggestion for the very first encounter is near sunset .
The light at that time is a benediction .
The serene , majestic columns of the Parthenon , tawny in color against the pure deep blue sky , frame incredible vistas .
All we wanted to do was to stand very quietly and look and look and look .
More than twenty-four hundred years old , bruised , battered , worn and partially destroyed , combining to an astounding degree solidity and grace , it still stands , incomparable testimony to man's aspiration .
In 1687 the Turks , who had been in control of the city since the fifteenth century , with a truly shattering lack of prudence used the Parthenon as a powder magazine .
It was hit by a shell fired by the bombarding Venetian army and the great central portion of the temple was blown to smithereens .
Nearby is the temple of Athena .
The architectural feature , the caryatides upholding the portico , famous around the world as the Porch of the Maidens , was referred to airily by Mando as the Girls' Place .
Another beautiful building is the Propylaea , the entrance gate of the Acropolis .
My other nugget of art and architectural knowledge -- besides remembering that it was Ghiberti who designed the doors of the baptistery in Florence -- is the three styles of Greek columns .
For some happy reason Doric , Ionic , and Corinthian have always stuck in my mind .
Furthermore I can identify each design .
It remained , however , for Mando to teach me that Doric symbolized strength , Ionic wisdom , and Corinthian beauty , the three pillars of the ancient world .
The columns of the Parthenon are fluted Doric .
Another classic sight that gave us considerable pleasure was the Evzone sentry , in his ballet skirt with great pompons on his shoes , who was patrolling up and down in front of the palace .
Gun on shoulder , he would march smartly for a few yards , bring his heels together with a click , make a brisk pirouette , skirts flaring , and march back to his point of departure .
We did not dare speak to so exalted a being , but Norton aimed his camera and shot him , so to speak , on the rise , the split second between the halt and the turn .
The evening of our first day we drove with Christopher and Judy Sakellariadis , who were friends and patients of Norton , to dine at a restaurant on the shores of the Aegean .
On the way out Mr. Sakellariadis detoured up a special hill from which one may obtain a matchless view of the Acropolis lighted by night .
The great spectacle was a source of rancor , and Son et Lumiere , which the French were trying to promote with the Athenians , was the reason .
These performances were being staged at historical monuments throughout Europe .
By a combination of music , lighting effects , and narration , famous events that have transpired in these locations are evoked and re-created for large audiences usually to considerable acclaim .
The Acropolis had been scheduled for the treatment too , but apparently it was to take place at the time of the full moon when the Athenians themselves , out of respect for the natural beauty of the occasion , were wont to forgo their own usual nocturnal illumination .
Athenian society was split into two factions , the Philistines and the Artists .
The Artists contended that the Philistines , gross of soul , were all for having Son et Lumiere , since the French were footing the bill and the attraction , wherever it had been done , had proven popular .
This was the crassest kind of materialism and they , the Artists , would have no truck with it .
The Acropolis was unique in the world and if that imcomparable work flooded by moonlight wasn't enough for both natives and tourists , then they were quite simply barbarians and the hell with them .
It was very stimulating .
The restaurant to which the Sakellariadises took us on this night of controversy was the Asteria , on Asteria beach .
This is a public bathing beach , easily accessible by tramway from the center of Athens .
Office workers frequently go out there to lunch and swim during the siesta period , which , during the summer , lasts from two until five in the afternoon , when shops and offices are again open for business .
They close sometime after eight .
Nine o'clock is the rush hour , when the busses are jammed , and by nine-thirty the restaurants are beginning to fill .
Bedtime is late , for the balmy evenings are delightful and everyone wants to linger under the stars .
The sand is fine and pleasant , the cabanas are clean , and the parasols , green , raspberry , and butter yellow , are very gay .
Although open to the general public it is not overcrowded ; ;
the atmosphere is that of an attractive private beach club at home .
We went there a couple of times to swim and enjoyed ourselves thoroughly .
This agreeable state of affairs is explicable , I think , on two counts .
One is Greece is not yet suffering from overpopulation .
The public may still find pleasure in public places .
The other is that the charge for cabanas and parasols , though modest from an American point of view , still is a little high for many Athenians .
We were struck by the notable absence of banana skins and beer cans , but just so that we wouldn't go overboard on Greek refinement , perfection was side-stepped by a couple of braying portable radios .
Greek boys and girls also go for rock-and-roll , and the stations most tuned to are those carrying United States overseas programs .
A good deal of English was spoken on the beach , most educated Greeks learn it in childhood , and there were also American wives and children of our overseas servicemen .
For a delightful drive out of Athens I should recommend Sounion , at the end of the Attic Peninsula .
The road , a comparatively new one , is very good , winding along inlets , coves , and bays of deep and brilliant blue .
I suppose the day will inevitably come when the area will be encrusted with developments , but at present it is deserted and seductive .
Three beneficial hurdles to progress are the lack of water , electricity , and telephones .
At Sounion there is a group of beautiful columns , the ruins of a temple to Poseidon , of particular interest at that time , as active reconstruction was in progress .
Gaunt scaffoldings adjoined the ruins , and on the ground segments of columns two and a half to three feet in thickness were being fitted with sections cunningly chiseled to match exactly the fluting and proportion of the original .
Later they would be hoisted into place .
There is a mediocre restaurant at Sounion and I fed a thin little Grecian cat and gave it two saucers of water -- there was no milk -- which it lapped up as though it were nectar .
I think its thirst had never been assuaged before .
Norton and I dined one night in a sea-food restaurant in Piraeus right on the water's edge .
To enter it , you go down five or six steps from the road .
Across the road is the kitchen , and waiters bearing great trays of dishes dodge traffic as nimbly as their French colleagues at the restaurant in the Place Du Tertre in Paris .
This restaurant , too , had a cat , a dusty , thin little creature .
How can a cat be thin in a fish restaurant ? ?
But this one was .
When offered a morsel it glanced right and left and winced , obviously frightened and expecting a kick , but too hungry not to snatch the tidbit .
Greece was one of the highlights of our trip , but beginning in Greece and continuing around the world throughout Southeast Asia the treatment of animals was horrifying , ranging from callous indifference to active cruelty .
This of course was not true of the educated and sophisticated people we met , who loved their pets , but kindness is not a basic human instinct .
We met some charming Athenians , and among them our chauffeur Panyotis ranked high .
His English was limited , and the little he knew he found irritating .
A particularly galling phrase was `` O.K. , Panyotis , we have time at our disposal '' .
This he claimed was the favorite refrain of the English .
They would be lolling under a tree sipping Ouzo , relishing the leisurely life , assuring him that the day was yet young .
`` Let him become honest , and they discard him .
-- But let him be ready to invent whatever falsehood -- to assail whatever character -- and to prostitute his paper to whatever ends -- and they hug him to their heart .
In proportion to the degradation of his moral worth , is the increase of his worth to them '' .
To exonerate the legislature and thereby extricate himself from a sticky situation , Pike took another course and made it appear that the legislature had been bilked .
He claimed in his attacks that Woodruff , with scurrilous underhandedness , had deliberately written an ambiguous bid that had so confused the honest members of the legislature that they had awarded him the contract without knowing what they were doing .
The charge was so farfetched that Woodruff paid little attention to it , and answered Pike in a rather bored way , wearily declaring that a `` new hand '' was pumping the bellows of the Crittenden organ , and concluding : `` In a controversy with an adversary so utterly destitute of moral principles , even a triumph would entitle the victor to no laurels .
The game is not worth the ammunition it would cost .
We therefore leave the writer to the enjoyment of the unenvied reputation which the personal abuse he has heaped on us will entitle him to from the low and vulgar herd to which he belongs '' .
Despite Woodruff's continuing refusal to debate with Pike through the columns of his newspaper , Pike did not let up his attack for a moment .
Over the months he became a political gadfly with an incessant barrage of satirical poems ridiculing Woodruff , the `` Casca '' letters belittling Woodruff , and long analytical articles vilifying Woodruff .
So persistent were these attacks that in March of the following year , Woodruff was finally moved to action , and Pike was to learn his first lesson in frontier politics , the subtle art of diversion .
To attack Pike directly would gain Woodruff little , for as a penniless newcomer Pike had nothing to lose .
By this time Woodruff had accurately measured Pike as a man of great personal pride , a man who would fly into a towering rage if his integrity were questioned , and who would be anxious to avenge himself .
Pike's honor would now come under attack , but not by Woodruff himself .
The charges would be made in The Gazette by an anonymous correspondent , and Pike would be so busy trying to track down the illusive character assassin that he would forget about harassing Woodruff .
The strategy worked perfectly .
Pike was stunned by the first blast against his character , which was published in the March 4th issue of The Gazette under the name `` Vale '' .
The anonymous correspondent did not resort to innuendoes .
He called Pike a thief .
He said Pike had stolen mules from Harris during the Santa Fe expedition ; ;
he accused Pike of continuing his sticky-fingered career in Arkansas with the theft of some otter skins in Van Buren .
The charges caught Pike off balance , coming as they did from an unexpected quarter .
Outraged , he used the Advocate of March 7th for a denial , sending immediately to Santa Fe and Van Buren for documents to vindicate himself , and demanding that Woodruff reveal the name of this perfidious slanderer who disguised himself under a pastoral pseudonym .
Woodruff said nothing , and Pike , frustrated , stormed throughout Little Rock in an unsuccessful search for `` Vale '' , asking his friends to keep their ears open .
Finally he learned through the grapevine that the culprit might be one James W. Robinson in Pope County .
Without further inquiry , Pike jumped to the conclusion that Robinson was guilty , and , following the honorable route that would eventually lead to the dueling ground , sent a message to Robinson through his friends , demanding that he either confirm or deny his complicity .
Robinson did neither .
To Pike , silence was tantamount to an admission of guilt , and he determined to get Robinson onto the dueling ground at all costs .
On April 11th he wrote an open letter in The Advocate , making it known `` to the world that Jas. W. Robinson is by his own admission a base liar and a slanderer '' .
If Robinson was a liar and a slanderer , he was also a very canny gentleman , for nothing that Pike could do would pry so much as a single word out of him .
Preoccupied with his own defense and his attempts to get Robinson to fight , Pike lessened his attacks on Woodruff , and finally stopped them altogether .
And Pike never did find out if Robinson was really responsible for the `` Vale '' letter .
Woodruff's strategy had been immensely successful .
It took Pike a long time to realize what Woodruff had done , and it had a profound effect on him .
Once he learned a lesson , he never forgot it .
In the next few months of comparative silence , Pike waited patiently until conditions were perfect for a new attack , and then , displaying a remarkable grasp of the subtleties of political infighting , gained from his first bout with Woodruff , he used these changed conditions to excellent advantage .
Shortly after the `` Vale '' incident , a rift began to develop between William Woodruff and Governor Pope .
One-armed , gruff , frugally honest , Governor Pope had been the ideal man to assume office in Arkansas after the disgraceful antics of political bosses like Crittenden , and he ruled the state with an iron fist , tolerating no nonsense .
Woodruff had supported him all the way , both as a chief executive and as a man .
Besides being political allies , they were also friends .
This warm relationship came to an abrupt end in June of 1834 when the National Congress appropriated $3,000 for compiling and printing the laws of Arkansas Territory , and , taking note of the recent wave of corruption in the legislature , left it to the governor to award the contract .
Woodruff wanted this political windfall very badly , and everyone assumed that he would get it because he was a close friend of the governor and his stanchest supporter .
After all , Woodruff owned a competent printing plant and was the logical man for the job .
But because the governor was determined that friendship should not influence him one way or the other , he looked for a printer with a knowledge of the law ( which Woodruff did not have ) , and awarded the contract to a lawyer named John Steele who had started a newspaper in Helena the year before .
Woodruff was furious .
Considering the governor's act a personal rebuff , he aired his feelings in The Gazette on August 26 , 1834 : :
`` We think the governor treated us rather shabbily , to say the least of it .
It is but justice to Mr. Steele for us to add that , in the above remarks , nothing is intended to his disparagement , either as a lawyer or as a printer .
He got a good fat job and we congratulate him on his good luck .
We hope that he will execute it in a manner that will entitle him to credit '' .
As summer cooled into fall and winter , even so the relationship between the two men continued to grow colder by the day , and by December of 1834 it was icy .
It was at this point that Pike decided to capitalize on the bad feelings between the two men .
The eventual prize in this new battle was the public printing contract that Woodruff still held .
From his first bout with the canny Woodruff , Pike had learned that it was better not to attack him directly , so , harping on the theme that the cost of printing was too high , he condemned the governor for permitting such a state of affairs to exist .
To document his charge , Pike set up two parallel columns in The Advocate showing the price charged by The Gazette and the considerably lower price for which the work could be done elsewhere .
Then he called on the governor to explain why .
The governor was not used to having his integrity questioned , and he promptly passed the charges on to Woodruff , demanding that Woodruff answer them .
If Woodruff could not furnish a strong explanation , the governor insisted that he lower his prices in accord with the scale printed in The Advocate .
Woodruff was now impaled on the horns of a dilemma .
As a proud man , his prestige would suffer if he let Pike dictate to him through the governor's office , but to lower his prices would be tantamount to an admission that they had been too high in the first place .
As a consequence , he did neither .
Very angry at Woodruff , the governor used his personal influence to have the printing contract withdrawn from The Gazette and awarded to the lowest bidder , which , by a strange coincidence , happened to be Pike's Advocate .
And , for the moment at least , the governor now found himself allied with the head of the Crittenden faction he had formerly opposed , and Pike was credited with a clear triumph over Woodruff .
But in the confused atmosphere of frontier politics , alliances were as quickly broken as they were formed , and as Pike came to favor with the governor of the Territory , the governor fell out of favor with the President of the United States .
On January 28 , 1835 , Andrew Jackson removed Pope from office and elevated Territorial Secretary William S. Fulton to the position .
Fulton was a very close friend of Jackson , and had been his private secretary for a number of years in the old days .
As a stanch party man and a rabid Democrat , he had little tolerance for Whigs like Pike , and Pike lost any immediate personal advantage his victory over Woodruff might have gained him .
2
; ;
as Pike proved himself adept in the political arena , he also became a social lion in the village of Little Rock , where he served as a symbol of the culture that the ladies of the town were striving so eagerly to cultivate .
After all , Pike was an established poet and his work had been published in the respectable periodicals of that center of American culture , Boston .
His accomplishments , and the fact that he was resident , did much to offset the unkind words travelers used to describe Little Rock after a visit there .
For some reason , none of them were impressed with the territorial capital .
The internationally known sportsman and traveler Friedrich Gerstacker was typical of its detractors in the mid-thirties .
`` Little Rock is a vile , detestable place .
'' He wrote .
`` Little Rock is , without any flattery , one of the dullest towns in the United States and I would not have remained two hours in the place , if I had not met with some good friends who made me forget its dreariness '' .
Pike enjoyed his new social position tremendously , and cultivated in himself those traits necessary to its preservation .
He was especially popular with women , for , like the romantic poetry he wrote , he was personally gracious , gallant , and chivalrous .
He again began to play the violin , and tucking the instrument beneath his chin , performed soulful and romantic airs to match the expressions on the faces of the lovely women who gathered to hear him .
His artistic accomplishments guaranteed him entry into any social gathering .
He composed songs and set them to music and sang them in a soft , melodious voice , and when his audience had had enough of music he would discourse on politics or tell stories of his western adventures guaranteed to excite the emotions of men and women alike .
The bulk of his early reputation , however , came not from his poetry or his music , but from his excellence as an orator .
By 1834 the art of oratory had reached a very high level in the United States as a literary form .
The orator of this period , in order to earn a reputation , had to pay close attention to the formal composition of his speech , judging how it would appear in print as well as the effect it would have on the audience that heard it .
Very soon after his arrival in Little Rock , Pike had joined one of the most influential organizations in town , the Little Rock Debating Society , and it was with this group that he made his debut as an orator , being invited to deliver the annual Fourth of July address the club sponsored every year .
Samuel Gorton , founder of Warwick , was styled by the historian Samuel Greene Arnold `` one of the most remarkable men who ever lived '' .
A biographer called him `` the premature John the Baptist of New England Transcendentalism '' .
The historian Charles Francis Adams called him `` a crude and half-crazy thinker '' .
His contemporaries in Massachusetts called him an arch-heretic , a beast , a miscreant , a proud and pestilent seducer , a prodigious minter of exorbitant novelties .
Edward Rawson , secretary of the colony of Massachusetts Bay , described him as `` a man whose spirit was stark drunk with blasphemies and insolence , a corrupter of the truth , a disturber of the peace wherever he comes '' .
Nathaniel Morton stated he `` was deeply leavened with blasphemous and familistical opinions '' .
He was thrown out , more or less , from Boston , Plymouth , Pocasset , Newport , and Providence .
On the other hand , Dr. Ezra Styles recorded the following testimony of John Angell , the last disciple of Gorton : ``
He said Gorton was a holy man ; ;
wept day and night for the sins and blindness of the world had a long walk through the trees and woods by his house , where he constantly walked morning and evening , and even in the depths of the night , alone by himself , for contemplation and the enjoyment of the dispensation of light .
He was universally beloved by his neighbours , and the Indians , who esteemed him , not only as a friend , but one high in communion with God in Heaven '' .
Gorton sometimes signed himself `` a professor of the mysteries of Christ '' .
There is plenty more to recommend Gorton , the facts of whose life are given in The Life And Times Of Samuel Gorton , by Adelos Gorton .
He fought like a fiend for the helpless and oppressed , worked for the abolition of slavery , helped the Quakers and Indians , and worked against the prosecution of witches .
He defied the Boston hierarchy , and after they sent a small army to get him he befuddled the court , including John Cotton , with one of the most complicated religious discourses ever heard .
Samuel Gorton was born at Gorton , England , near the present city of Manchester , about 1592 .
Although he did not attend any celebrated schools or universities , he was a master of Greek and Hebrew and could read the Bible in the original .
He worked as a `` clothier '' in London , but was greatly concerned with religion .
Gorton left England , he said , `` to enjoy libertie of conscience in respect to faith towards God , and for no other end '' .
With his wife and three or more children he arrived in Boston in March , 1637 , and soon found it was no place for anyone looking for liberty of conscience .
Roger Williams had recently been thrown out , and Anne Hutchinson and her Antinomians were slugging it out with the powers-that-be .
Gorton and his family moved to Plymouth .
Soon he was in trouble there , for defending a woman who was accused of smiling in church .
She was Ellen Aldridge , a widow of good repute who was employed by Gorton's wife and lived with the family .
The report was : ``
It had been whispered privately that she had smiled in the congregation , and the Governor Prence sent to knoe her business , and command , after punishment as the bench see fit , her departure and also anyone who brought her to the place from which she came ' '' .
Gorton said they were preparing to deport her as a vagabond , and to escape the shame she fled to the woods for several days , returning at night .
He advised the poor woman not to appear in court as what she was charged with was not in violation of law .
Gorton appeared for her , however , and what he told the magistrates must have been plenty , for he was charged with deluding the court , fined , and told to leave the colony within fourteen days .
He left in a storm for Pocasset , December 4 , 1638 .
His wife was in delicate health and nursing an infant with measles .
The unconquerable Mrs. Hutchinson was residing at Pocasset , after having been excommunicated by the Boston church and thrown out of the colony .
One can imagine that with her and Gorton there it was no place for anyone with weak nerves .
William Coddington , who was running the colony , felt constrained to move seven miles south where , with others -- as mentioned above -- he founded Newport .
When , in March , 1640 , the two towns were united under Coddington , Gorton claimed the union was irregular and illegally constituted and that it had never been sanctioned by the majority of freeholders .
Then he became involved in a ruckus remarkably similar to the one in Plymouth .
A cow owned by an old woman trespassed on Gorton's land .
While driving the cow back home the woman was assaulted by a servant maid of Gorton .
The old woman complained to the deputy governor , who ordered the servant brought before the court .
Gorton reverted to his Plymouth tactics , refused to let her go , and appeared himself before the Portsmouth grand jury .
During the trial he told off the jury , called them `` Just Asses '' and called a freeman `` a saucy boy and Jack-an-Apes '' .
He was jailed and banished .
Gorton then moved to Providence and soon put the town in a turmoil .
He held that no group of colonists could set up or maintain a government without royal sanction .
Since Rhode Island at that time did not have such sanction , his opinion was not popular .
Roger Williams wrote his friend Winthrop as follows : ``
Master Gorton , having foully abused high and low at Aquidneck is now bewitching and bemaddening poor Providence , both with his unclean and foul censures of all the ministers of this country ( for which myself have in Christ's name withstood him ) , and also denying all visible and external ordinances in depth of Familism : almost all suck in his poison , as at first they did at Aquidneck .
Some few and myself withstand his inhabitation and town privileges , without confession and reformation of his uncivil and inhuman practices at Portsmouth ; ;
yet the tide is too strong against us , and I fear ( if the framer of hearts help not ) it will force me to little Patience , a little isle next to your Prudence '' .
Williams also stated : `` Our peace was like the peace of a man who hath the tertian ague '' .
Providence finally managed to get Gorton out of the town , and he and some friends bought land at Pawtuxet on the west side of Narragansett Bay , five miles south but still within the jurisdiction of the Providence colony .
This town should not be confused with Pawtucket , just north of Providence , or Pawcatuck , Connecticut , on the Pawcatuck River , opposite Westerly , Rhode Island .
Up to now , Gorton had been looking for trouble , and now that he was trying to get away from it , trouble started looking for him .
Upon intelligence that the formidable agitator was to favor them with his presence , the benighted inhabitants of Pawtuxet , alas , gave their allegiance to Massachusetts and asked that colony to expel the newcomers .
As it was the custom of that alert colony to take over the property of persons asking for protection , this was an act roughly equivalent to throwing open the door to a pack of wolves and saying `` Come and get it '' .
Gorton and company , however , promptly bought land from Miantonomi a few miles south of Pawtuxet , extending from the present Gaspee Point south to Warwick Neck and twenty miles inland .
The settlement was called Shawomet .
It was not within the jurisdiction of anybody or anything , including Providence and Massachusetts .
If Gorton wanted peace and quiet for his complicated meditations this is where he should have had it .
Instead of that he was engulfed by bedlam .
Pomham and Soconoco , a couple of minor sachems ( of something less than exalted character ) under Miantonomi , declared that they had never assented to the sale of land to Gorton and had never received anything for it .
Following the glorious lead of the heroes of Pawtuxet , they also submitted themselves to the protection of Massachusetts .
One historical authority presents laborious and circuitous testimony tending to arouse suspicion that Massachusetts was behind the clouds settling down on the embattled Gorton .
However , the General Court at Boston ordered the purchasers of Shawomet to appear before them to answer the sachems' claim .
The purchasers rejected the order in two letters written in vigorous terms .
Then Massachusetts switched to its standard tactics .
It pointed out twenty-six instances of blasphemy in the letters , and ordered the writers to submit or force of arms would be used .
The next week , forty soldiers were sent to get the miscreants .
The latter tried to arbitrate through a delegation from Providence , which offer was declined by the invaders .
The Commissioners at Boston wrote the victims to see their misdeeds and repent or they should `` look upon them as men prepared for slaughter '' .
At Shawomet , women and children fled in terror across the Bay .
The men fortified a blockhouse and got ready to fight , but meanwhile appealed to the King and again tried to arbitrate .
Gorton evidently still had plenty to learn about Massachusetts , but he was learning fast .
Governor Winthrop wrote : ``
You may do well to take notice , that besides the title to land between the English and the Indians there , there are twelve of the English that have subscribed their names to horrible and detestable blasphemies , who are rather to be judged as blasphemous than they should delude us by winning time under pretence of arbitration '' .
The attack started on October 2 , 1643 , and the Gortonists held out for a day and a night .
The attackers sent for more soldiers , and the defenders , to save bloodshed , surrendered under the promise that they would be treated as neighbors .
Promptly their livestock was taken and according to Gorton the soldiers were ordered to knock down anyone who should utter a word of insolence , and run through anyone who might step out of line .
When the captives arrived in Boston , `` the chaplain ( of their captors ) went to prayers in the open streets , that the people might take notice what they had done in a holy manner , and in the name of the Lord '' .
Gorton and ten of his friends were thrown in jail .
On Sunday they refused to attend church .
The magistrates were determined to compel them .
The prisoners agreed , provided they might speak after the sermon , which was permitted .
Here was Gorton's chance to indulge in something at which he was supreme .
The Boston elders were great at befuddling the opposition with torrents of ecclesiastical obscurities , but Gorton was better .
Reverend Cotton preached to them about Demetrius and the shrines of Ephesus .
Gorton replied with blasts that scandalized the congregation .
At the trial which took place later , the Pomham matter was completely omitted .
The Gortonists were charged with blasphemy and tried for their lives .
Four ecclesiastical questions were presented by the General Court to Gorton : `` 1 .
Whether the Fathers , who died before Christ was born of the Virgin Mary , were justified and saved only by the blood which he shed , and the death which he suffered after his incarnation ? ?
2 .
Whether the only price of our redemption were not the death of Christ on the cross , with the rest of his sufferings and obediences , in the time of his life here , after he was born of the Virgin Mary ? ?
3 .
Who was the God whom he thinke we serve ? ?
4 .
What he means when he saith , wee worship the starre of our God Remphan , Chion , Moloch '' ? ?
Gorton answered in writing .
All of the elders except three voted for death , but a majority of the deputies refused to sanction the sentence .
Seven of the prisoners were sentenced to be confined in irons for as long as it pleased the court , set to work and , if they broke jail or proclaimed heresy , to be executed if convicted .
The three others got off easier .
The convicts were put in chains , paraded before the congregation at the Reverend Cotton's lecture as an example , and sent to prisons in various towns , where they languished all winter , chains included .
When Fred wheeled him back into his room , the big one looking out on the back porch , and put him to bed , Papa told him he was very tired but that he had enjoyed greatly the trip downtown .
`` I've been cooped up so long '' , he added .
Getting out again , seeing old friends , had given his spirits a lift .
That night after supper I went back over to 48 Spruce Street -- Ralph and I at that time were living at 168 Chestnut -- and Ralph went with me .
Papa was still elated over his afternoon visit downtown .
`` Baby , I saw a lot of old friends I hadn't seen in a long time '' , he told me , his eyes bright .
`` It was mighty good for the old man to get out again '' .
The next day he seemed to be in fairly good shape and still in excellent spirits .
But a few days after Fred's return he began hemorrhaging and that was the beginning of early and complete disintegration .
It began in the morning , and very quickly the hemorrhage was a massive one .
We got Dr. Glenn to him as quickly as we could , and we wired Tom of Papa's desperate condition .
The hemorrhage was in the prostate region ; ;
Dr. Glenn saw at once what had happened .
`` He has lost much blood '' , he said .
`` It'll take a lot to replace it '' .
`` Dr. Glenn , I've got a lot of blood '' , Fred spoke up , `` plenty of it .
Let me give Papa blood '' .
The doctor agreed , but explained that it would be necessary first to check Fred's blood to ascertain whether or not it was of the same type as Papa's .
To give a patient the wrong type of blood , said the doctor , would likely kill him .
That was in the days before blood banks , of course , and transfusions had to be given directly from donor to patient .
One had to find a donor , and usually very quickly , whose blood corresponded with the patient's .
And then it took considerably longer to make preparations for giving transfusions .
They had to take blood samples to the laboratory to test them , for one thing , and there was much required preliminary procedure .
They made the tests and came to Fred ; ;
by now it was perhaps two days or longer after Papa had begun hemorrhaging .
`` Fred , your blood matches your father's , all right '' , Dr. Glenn said .
`` But we aren't going to let you give him any '' .
`` But why in the name of God can't I give my father blood '' ? ?
Fred demanded .
`` Why can't I , Doctor '' ? ?
`` Because , Fred , it could do him no good .
It's too late now .
He's past helping .
He's as good as gone '' .
And in a few minutes Papa was dead .
It was well past midnight .
Papa had left us about the same hour of the night that Ben had passed on .
The date was June 20 , 1922 .
`` W. O. Wolfe , prominent business man and pioneer resident of this section , died shortly after midnight Tuesday at his home 48 Spruce Street '' , the Asheville Times of Wednesday , June 21 , announced .
`` Mr. Wolfe had been in declining health for many years and death was not unexpected '' .
A biographical sketch followed .
Funeral services were held Thursday afternoon at four o'clock at the home .
Beloved Dr. R. F. Campbell , our First Presbyterian Church pastor , was in charge .
The burial was out in Riverside Cemetery .
All about him stood tombstones his own sensitive great hands had fashioned .
A few years before his death Papa had agreed with Mama to make a joint will with her in which it would be provided that in the event of the death of either of them an accounting would be made to their children whereby each child would receive a bequest of $5000 cash .
At his death Fred and Ralph , my husband , were named executors of the estate under the terms of the will .
Fred and Ralph qualified as executors and paid off what debts were currently due , and they were all current , since Papa was never one to allow bills to go unpaid .
The bills were principally for hospitalization and doctors' fees during the last years of his life , and when he died he owed in the main only current doctor's bills .
After they had paid all his debts and the funeral costs , Ralph and Fred had some fourteen thousand dollars , as I remember , with which to pay the bequests .
This , manifestly , would not provide $5000 to each of the surviving five children .
So what Fred and Ralph did was to attempt to prorate the money fairly by taking into account what each of the five had received , if anything , from the estate before Papa's death .
Consequently , Fred and Tom , the two who had been provided college educations , signed statements to the effect that each had received his bequest in full , and Effie and I were each allotted $5000 .
Frank had been given about half his legacy to use in a business venture before Papa's death ; ;
he was given the difference between that amount and $5000 .
Tom had received four years of education at the University of North Carolina and two at Harvard , and Fred had been in and out of Georgia Tech and Carneigie Tech and part of the time had been a self-help student .
So , because he had received less than Tom , it was felt proper that Fred should receive the few hundred dollars that remained .
And that's how Papa's estate was divided .
Papa , I should emphasize , had been an invalid the last several years of his life ; ;
his hospital and doctor bills had been large and his income had been cut until he was receiving little except small rentals on some properties he still owned .
Had he been able to escape this long siege of invalidism , I'm convinced , Papa would have left a sizable estate .
But he had succeeded well , we agreed .
He had left us a legacy far more valuable than houses and lands and stocks and bonds .
For years Papa and Mama had been large taxpayers .
I recall that several years their taxes exceeded $800 .
In those years of lower property valuations and lower tax rates , that payment represented ownership of much property .
`` Merciful God , Julia '' ! !
I have known Papa to exclaim on getting his tax bill , `` we're going to the dogs '' ! !
But he never expected to do that .
And he didn't , by a long shot ! !
35 .
In the spring of his second year at Harvard , Tom had been offered a job at Northwestern University as an instructor in the English Department .
But he had delayed accepting this job , and as he was leaving to come home to Papa in response to our telegram , he dropped a postcard to Miss McCrady , head of the Harvard Appointment Office , asking her please to write Northwestern authorities and explain the circumstances .
Actually Tom had been postponing giving them an answer , I'm confident , because he did not want to go out there to teach .
In fact , he didn't want to teach anywhere .
He wanted to go back to Harvard for another year of playwriting .
But Papa's death had further complicated the financing of Tom's hoped-for third year , and for the weeks following it Tom did not know whether his return to Harvard could be arranged .
But things were worked out in the family and late in August he wrote Miss McCrady an explanatory letter in which he told her that matters at home had been in an unsettled condition after Papa's death and he had not known whether he would stay at home with Mama , accept the Northwestern job , or return to Harvard .
But he was happy to tell her that his finances were now in such condition that he could go back to Harvard for a third year with Professor Baker .
And that's what he did .
That third year he wrote plays with a fury .
I believe there are seventeen short plays by Tom now housed in the Houghton Library at Harvard ; ;
I think I'm right in that figure .
That fall he submitted to Professor Baker the first acts and outlines of the following acts of several plays , six of them , according to some of his associates , and he also worked on a play that he first called Niggertown , the material for which he had collected during the summer at home .
Later this play would be called Welcome To Our City .
In the spring , it must have been , he began working on the play that he called The House , which later would be Mannerhouse .
That spring Welcome To Our City was selected for production by the 47 Workshop and it was staged in the middle of May .
It ran two nights , and though it was generally praised , there was considerable criticism of its length .
It ran until past one o'clock .
That was Tom's weakness ; ;
it was demonstrated , many critics would later point out , in the length of his novels .
In this play there were so many characters and so much detail .
Tom never knew how to condense , to boil down .
He was always concerned with life , and he tried to picture it whole ; ;
he wanted nothing compressed , tight .
He was a big man , and he wanted nothing little , squeezed ; ;
he despised parsimony , and particularly of words .
In this play there were some thirty or more named characters and I don't know how many more unnamed .
In describing it to Professor Baker after it had been chosen for production , he defended his great array of characters by declaring that he had included that many not because `` I didn't know how to save paint '' , but because the play required them .
And he threatened someday to write a play `` with fifty , eighty , a hundred people -- a whole town , a whole race , a whole epoch '' .
He said he would do it , though probably nobody would produce it , for his own `` soul's ease and comfort '' .
That summer Tom attended the summer session at Harvard , but he did not ask Mama to send him back in the fall .
Instead , he went down to New York and submitted Welcome To Our City to the Theatre Guild , which had asked him to let them have a look at it after Professor Baker had recommended it highly .
He hung around New York , waiting to hear whether they would accept it for production and in that time came down to Asheville and also paid a short visit to Chapel Hill , where with almost childish delight he visited old friends and favorite campus spots .
On returning to New York he had a job for several weeks ; ;
it was visiting University of North Carolina alumni in New York to ask them for contributions to the Graham Memorial Building fund .
The Graham Memorial would be the campus student union honoring the late and much beloved Edward Kidder Graham , who had been president when Tom entered the university .
Well , the Theatre Guild kept that play , and kept it , and finally in December they turned it down .
But they would reconsider it , they assured him , if he would rewrite it .
Tom told me about it , how one evening he went over to see the Theatre Guild man .
This man , Tom said , had the play shut up in his desk , I believe , and when Tom sat down , he pulled it out and apologetically told Tom that they wouldn't be able to use it .
Tom said he almost burst into tears , he was so disappointed and put out .
The man , Tom said , explained that it was not only too long and detailed but that as it stood it wasn't the sort of thing the public wanted .
The public , Tom said the man told him , wanted realism , and his play wasn't that .
It was fantastic writing , beautiful writing , the man declared , but the public , he insisted , wanted realism .
Tom was not willing to revise the play according to the plan the man suggested .
Such a revision , he said , would ruin it , would change his whole conception of the play as well as the treatment .
He thought about it and he told the man he just couldn't do it over in accordance with the suggestions he had made .
It was not until we had returned to the city to live , while I was still at Brown and Sharpe's , that I felt the full impact of evangelical Christianity .
I came under the spell of a younger group in the church led by the pastor's older son .
The spirit of this group was that we were -- and are -- living in a world doomed to eternal punishment , but that God through Jesus Christ has provided a way of escape for those who confess their sins and accept salvation .
There are millions who accept this doctrine , but few indeed are those who accept it so truly that the fate of humanity lies as a weight on their souls night and day .
This group in Park Place Church was made up of the earnest few .
I was drawn deeper and deeper into these concerns and responsibilities .
I engaged more and more in religious activities .
Besides Church and Sunday School I went to out-of-door meetings on the sidewalk at the church door .
I went to an afternoon service at the Aj .
I went to the Christian Endeavor Society and to the evening service of the church .
Much of this lacked the active support of the pastor .
The young people were self-energizing , and I was energized .
Once or twice my father asked me if I wasn't overdoing a bit in my churchgoing .
Meanwhile I myself was not yet saved .
At least I had been unable to lay hold on the experience of conversion .
Try as I might to confess my sins and accept salvation , no answer came to me from heaven .
Finally , after years , I gave up .
The basic difficulty , I suppose , was in my ultimate inability to feel a burden of sin from which I sought relief .
I was familiar with Pilgrim's Progress , which I read as literature .
No load of sin had been laid on my shoulders , nor did earnest effort enable me to become conscious of one .
There is , of course , the doctrine of original sin , which asserts that each of us as individuals partakes of the guilt of our first ancestor .
In the rhyming catechism this doctrine is worded thus : `` In Adam's fall We sin-ned all '' .
This doctrine was repugnant to my moral sense .
I did not feel it presumptuous to expect that the Creator would be at least as just as the most righteous of His creatures ; ;
and the doctrine of original sin is compounded of injustice .
Some of these thoughts -- not all of them -- have taken organized form in later years .
The actual impelling force which severed me from evangelical effort was of another sort .
I became disgusted at being so preoccupied with the state of my own miserable soul .
I found myself becoming one of that group of people who , in Carlyle's words , `` are forever gazing into their own navels , anxiously asking ' Am I right , am I wrong ' '' ? ?
I bethought me of the Lord's Prayer , and these words came to mind : `` Thy kingdom come , Thy will be done , on earth as it is in heaven '' .
They have remained on the opened page of my mind in all the years which since have passed .
From that time to this my religious concern is that I might give effective help to the bringing in of God's kingdom on earth .
I do not claim to be free from sin , or from the need for repentance and forgiveness .
In my experience the assurance of forgiveness comes only when I have confessed to the wronged one and have made as full reparation as I can devise .
There was one further step in my religious progress .
This was taken after I came to live in Springfield , and it was made under the guidance of the Reverend Raymond Beardslee , a young preacher who came to the Congregational Church there at about the same time that I moved from New York .
His father was a professor at Hartford Theological Seminary , and from him he acquired a conviction , which he passed along to me , that there is in the universe of persons a moral law , the law of love , which is a natural law in the same sense as is the physical law .
It is most important that we recognize the law of love as being unbreakable in all personal relationships , whether individually , socially or as between whole nations of people .
If obeyed , the law brings order and satisfaction .
If disobeyed , the result is turmoil and chaos .
As we observe moral law and physical law they appear as being inevitable .
We can conceive of no alternatives .
Their basis seems deeper than mere authority .
They are not true because scientists or prophets say they are true .
It is not the authority of God Himself which makes them true .
Because God is what He is , the laws of the universe , material and spiritual , are what they are .
Deity and Law are one and inseparable .
With this conviction , the partition between the sacred and the secular disappears .
One's daily work becomes sacred , since it is performed in the field of influence of the moral law , dealing as it does with people as well as with matter and energy .
In his book Civilization And Ethics Albert Schweitzer faces the moral problems which arise when moral law is recognized in business life , for example .
His Ethics defines `` possessions as the property of the community , of which the individual is sovereign steward .
One serves society by conducting a business from which a certain number of employees draw their means of subsistence ; ;
another by giving away his property in order to help his fellow man .
Each will decide on his own course somewhere between these two extreme cases according to the sense of responsibility which is determined for him by the particular circumstances of his own life .
No one is to judge others '' .
He is uncompromising in assigning guilt to the man who finds it necessary to inflict or permit injury to one individual or group for the sake of a larger good .
For this decision a man must take personal responsibility .
Says he , `` I may never imagine that in the struggle between personal and supra-personal responsibility it is possible to make a compromise between the ethical and the purposive in the shape of a relative ethic ; ;
or to let the ethical be superseded by the purposive .
On the contrary it is my duty to make my own decision as between the two '' .
Schweitzer seems , in fact , to acquire for himself a burden of sin , not bequeathed by Adam , but accumulated in the inevitable judgments which life requires of him as between greater and lesser responsibilities .
This viewpoint I find interesting , but it has never weighed on my soul .
Perhaps it should have .
My own experience has followed simpler lines .
An uncompromising belief in the moral law has the advantage of making religion natural , even as physical law is natural .
Neither the engineer nor the ordinary citizen feels any self-consciousness in obeying the laws of matter and energy , nor can he achieve a sense of self-righteousness in such obedience .
To obey the moral law is just ordinary common sense , applied to a neglected field .
Religion thus becomes integrated with life .
This truth that the moral law is natural has other important corollaries .
One of them is that it gives meaning and purpose to life .
In seeking for such meaning and purpose , Albert Schweitzer seized upon the concept of the `` sacredness of life '' .
It is puzzling to the occidental mind ( to mine at least ) to assign `` sacredness '' to animal , insect , and plant life .
These lives are in themselves outside of the moral order and are unburdened with moral responsibility .
There is indeed a moral responsibility on man himself , for his own soul's sake , to respect lower life and to avoid the infliction of suffering , but this viewpoint Schweitzer rejects .
So far as `` sacredness '' inheres in any aspect of creation it seems to me to be found in human personality , whether in Lambarene , Africa , or in Washington , D.C. .
One cannot read the records of scientists , officials and travelers who have penetrated to the minds of the most savage races without realizing that each individual met with is a person .
Read , for instance , in Malcolm MacDonald's Borneo People of Segura and her wise father Tomonggong Koh , and her final adjustment to encroaching civilization .
Above all read in Jens Bjerre's The Last Cannibal Show the old man of the Wailbri tribe ( not cannibals ) in central Australia gave to the white man his choicest possession , while the tears streamed down his face .
The Australian aborigine is the conventional exemplar of degraded humanity ; ;
yet here was a depth of sensibility which is lacking in a considerable portion of the beneficiaries of our civilization .
Persons , whether white , black , brown or yellow , are a concern of God .
Respect for personality is a privilege and a duty for us as brothers .
Such is the field for exercising our reverence .
As to our action , let us align ourselves with the purpose expressed by Jesus in the Lord's Prayer : `` Thy kingdom come , Thy will be done , on earth as it is in heaven '' .
With the knowledge that the kingdom comes by obedience to the moral law in our relations with all people , we have a firm intellectual grasp on both the means and the ends of our lives .
This intellectual approach to spiritual life suited me well , because I was never content to lead a divided life .
As I have said , words from Tennyson remain ever in my memory : `` That mind and soul , according well , May make one music as before '' .
Let us now give some thought to the soul .
When the young biologist , Dr. Ballard , began to show interest in our daughter Elizabeth , this induced a corresponding interest , on our part , in him .
I asked one day what he was doing .
He told me that he had a big newt and a little newt and that he was transplanting a big eye of the big newt onto the little newt and a little eye of the little newt onto the big newt .
He was then noting that the big eye on the little newt hung back until the little eye had grown up to it , while the little eye on the big newt grew rapidly until it was as big as the other .
Then I asked , `` What does that teach you '' ? ?
Said he , `` It teaches me to wonder '' .
This was a profound statement .
In the face of the unfolding universe , our ultimate attitude is that of wonder .
Wonder is indeed the intellectual gateway to the spiritual world .
Gone are the days when , in the nineteenth century , scientists thought that they were close to the attainment of complete knowledge of the physical universe .
For them only a little more needed to be learned , and then all physical knowledge could be neatly sorted , packaged and put in the inventory to be drawn on for the solution of any human problem .
This complacency was blown to bits by the relativity of Einstein , the revelation of the complex anatomy of the atom and the discovery of the expanding universe .
None of these discoveries were neatly rounded off bits of knowledge .
Each faded out into the unexplored areas of the future .
It is as if we , in our center of human observation , from time to time penetrate more deeply into the unknown .
As our radius of penetration , R , increases , the area of new knowledge increases by Af , and the total of human knowledge becomes measured in terms of Af .
Wonder grows .
It is endless .
There are some people , intelligent people , who seem to be untouched by the sea of wonder in which we are immersed and in which we spend our lives .
One such is Abraham Meyer , the writer of a recent book , Speaking Of Man .
This is a straightforward denial of the spiritual world and a vigorous defense of pure materialism .
His inability to wonder vitiates his argument .
The subject of immortality brings to mind a vivid incident which took place in 1929 at Montreux in Switzerland .
Criticism is as old as literary art and we can set the stage for our study of three moderns if we see how certain critics in the past have dealt with the ethical aspects of literature .
I have chosen five contrasting pairs , ten men in all , and they are arranged in roughly chronological order .
Such a list must naturally be selective , and the treatment of each man is brief , for I am interested only in their general ideas on the moral measure of literature .
Altogether , the list will give us considerable variety in attitudes and some typical ones , for these critics range all the way from censors to those who consider art above ethics , all the way from Plato to Poe .
And most of the great periods are represented , because we will compare Plato and Aristotle from the golden age of Greece ; ;
Stephen Gosson and Sir Philip Sidney from renaissance England ; ;
Dr. Johnson and William Hazlitt of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries in England ; ;
and James Russell Lowell and Edgar Allan Poe of nineteenth century American letters .
Plato and Aristotle
Plato and Aristotle agree on some vital literary issues .
They both measure literature by moral standards , and in their political writings both allow for censorship , but the differences between them are also significant .
While Aristotle censors literature only for the young , Plato would banish all poets from his ideal state .
Even more important , in his Poetics , Aristotle differs somewhat from Plato when he moves in the direction of treating literature as a unique thing , separate and apart from its causes and its effects .
All through The Republic , Plato attends to the way art relates to the general life and ultimately to a good life for his citizens .
In short , he is constantly concerned with the ethical effects .
When he discusses the subject matter of poetry , he asks what moral effect the scenes will have .
When he turns briefly to literary style , in the Third Book , he again looks to the effect on the audience .
He explains that his citizens must not be corrupted by any of the misrepresentations of the gods or heroes that one finds in much poetry , and he observes that all `` these pantomimic gentlemen '' will be sent to another state .
Only those story tellers will remain who can `` imitate the style of the virtuous '' .
Plato is , at times , just as suspicious of the poets themselves as he is of their work .
When he discusses tyrants in the Eighth Book of The Republic , he pictures the poets as willing to praise the worst rulers .
But the most fundamental objection he has to poets appears in the Tenth Book , and it is derived from his doctrine of ideal forms .
In Plato's mind there is an irresolvable conflict between the poet and the philosopher , because the poet imitates only particular objects and is incapable of rising to the first level of abstraction , much less the highest level of ideal forms .
True reality , of course , is the ideal , and the poet knows nothing of this ; ;
only the philosopher knows the truth .
Poets , moreover , dwell on human passions .
And with this point about the passions , we encounter Plato's dualism .
The same sort of thinking plays so large a part in both Babbitt and More , that we must examine it in some detail .
Plato feels that man has two competing aspects , his rational faculty and his irrational .
We can be virtuous only if we control our lower natures , the passions in this case , and strengthen our rational side ; ;
and poetry , with all its emphasis on the passions , encourages the audience to give way to emotion .
For this reason , then , poetry tends to weaken the power of control , the reason , because it tempts one to indulge his passions , and even the best of men , he maintains , may be corrupted by this subtle influence .
Plato's attitude toward poetry has always been something of an enigma , because he is so completely sensitive to its charm .
His whole objection , indeed , seems to rise out of a deep conviction that the poets do have great power to influence , but Plato seldom pays any attention to what might be called the poem itself .
He is , rather , concerned with the effect on society and he wants the poets to join his fight for justice .
He wants them to use their great power to strengthen man's rational side , to teach virtue , and to encourage religion .
While Plato finally allows a few acceptable hymns to the gods and famous men , still he clearly leaves the way open for further discussion of the issue .
He even calls upon the poets to defend the Muse and to show that poetry may contribute to virtue .
He says : ``
We may further grant to those of her ( Poetry's ) defenders who are lovers of poetry and yet not poets , the permission to speak in prose on her behalf : let them show not only that she is pleasant but also useful to States and to human life , and we will listen in a kindly spirit ; ;
for if this can be proved we shall surely be the gainers -- I mean , if there is a use in poetry as well as a delight '' .
When we turn to Aristotle's ideas on the moral measure of literature , it is at once apparent that he is at times equally concerned about the influence of the art .
In the ideal state , for instance , he argues that the young citizens should hear only the most carefully selected tales and stories .
For this reason , he would banish indecent pictures and speeches from the stage ; ;
and the young people should not even be permitted to see comedies till they are old enough to drink strong wine and sit at the public tables .
By the time they reach that age , however , Aristotle no longer worries about the evil influence of comedies .
In Aristotle's analysis of tragedy in the Poetics , we find an attempt to isolate the art , to consider only those things proper to it , to discover how it differs from other arts , and to deal with the effects peculiar to it .
He assures us , early in the Poetics , that all art is `` imitation '' and that all imitation gives pleasure , but he distinguishes between art in general and poetic art on the basis of the means , manner , and the objects of the imitation .
Once the poetic arts are separated from the other forms , he lays down his famous definition of tragedy , which sets up standards and so lends direction to the remainder of the work .
A tragedy , by his definition , is an imitation of an action that is serious , of a certain magnitude , and complete in itself .
It should have a dramatic form with pleasing language , and it should portray incidents which so arouse pity and fear that it purges these emotions in the audience .
Any tragedy , he maintains , has six elements : plot , character , and thought ( the objects of imitation ) , diction and melody ( the means of imitation ) , and spectacle ( the manner of imitation ) .
Throughout the rest of the Poetics , Aristotle continues to discuss the characteristics of these six parts and their interrelationship , and he refers frequently to the standards suggested by his definition of tragedy .
Aristotle's method in the Poetics , then , does suggest that we should isolate the work .
The Chicago contingent of modern critics follow Aristotle so far in this direction that it is hard to see how they can compare one poem with another for the purpose of evaluation .
But there are , however , several features of Aristotle's approach which open the way for the moral measure of literature .
For one thing , Aristotle mentions that plays may corrupt the audience .
In addition , his definition of a tragedy invites our attention , because a serious and important action may very well be one that tests the moral fiber of the author or of the characters .
And there is one other point in the Poetics that invites moral evaluation : Aristotle's notion that the distinctive function of tragedy is to purge one's emotions by arousing pity and fear .
He rejects certain plots because they do not contribute to that end .
The point is that an ethical critic , with an assist from Freud , can seize on this theory to argue that tragedy provides us with a harmless outlet for our hostile urges .
In his study Samuel Johnson , Joseph Wood Krutch takes this line when he says that what Aristotle really means by his theory of catharsis is that our evil passions may be so purged by the dramatic ritual that it is `` less likely that we shall indulge them through our own acts '' .
In Krutch's view , this is one way to show how literature may be moral in effect without employing the explicit methods of a moralist .
And we can add that Krutch's interpretation of purgation is also one answer to Plato's fear that poetry will encourage our passions .
If Krutch is correct , tragedy may have quite the opposite effect .
It may allay our passions and so restore the rule of reason .
Or in more Freudian terms , the experience may serve to sublimate our destructive urges and strengthen the ego and superego .
Gosson and Sidney
The second half of the sixteenth century in England was the setting for a violent and long controversy over the moral quality of renaissance literature , especially the drama .
No one suggested that the ethical effects of the art were irrelevant .
Both sides agreed that the theater must stand a moral test , but they could not agree on whether the poets were a good or a bad influence .
Both sides claimed that Plato and Aristotle supported their cause .
Those who wanted to close the theaters , for example , pointed to Plato's Republic and those who wished to keep them open called on the Plato of the Ion to testify in their behalf .
The most famous document that comes out of this dispute is perhaps Sir Philip Sidney's An Apologie For Poetrie , published in 1595 .
Many students of literature know that classical defense .
What is not so well known , however , and what is quite important for understanding the issues of this early quarrel , is the kind of attack on literature that Sidney was answering .
For this reason , then I want to describe , first , two examples of the puritanical attacks : Stephen Gosson's The School Of Abuse , 1579 , and his later Playes Confuted , published in 1582 .
Second , we will see how Sidney answered the charges , for while Sidney's essay was not specifically a reply to Gosson , his arguments do support the new theater .
According to William Ringler's study , Stephen Gosson , the theater business in London had become a thriving enterprise by 1577 , and , in the opinion of many , a thoroughly bad business .
Aroused by what they considered an evil influence , some members of the clergy , joined by city authorities , merchants , and master craftsmen , began the attack on the plays and the actors for what they called `` the abuses of the art '' , but by 1582 some of them began to denounce the whole idea of acting .
Although this kind of wholesale objection came at first from some men who were not technically Puritans , still , once the Puritans gained power , they climaxed the affair by passing the infamous ordinance of 1642 which decreed that all `` public stage-plays shall cease and be forborne '' .
With that act of Parliament the opponents of the stage won the day , and for more than two decades after that England had no legitimate public drama .
In the early days of this controversy over the theater one of the interested parties , Stephen Gosson , published a little tract in which he objected mildly to the abuses of art , rather than the art itself .
But his opposition hardened and by 1579 , in The School Of Abuse , he was ready to banish all `` players '' .
He advises women to beware `` of those places which in sorrows cheere you and beguile you in mirth '' .
He does not really approve of levity and laughter , but sex is the deadly sin .
He warns that a single glance can lead us into temptation , for `` Looking eies have lyking hartes , and lyking hartes may burne in lust '' .
But it would not be very satisfactory to leave our conclusions at the point just reached .
Fortunately , it is possible to be somewhat more concrete and factual in diagnosing the involvement of values in education .
For this purpose we now draw upon data from sociological and psychological studies of students in American colleges and universities , and particularly from the Cornell Values Studies .
In the latter research program , information is available for 2,758 Cornell students surveyed in 1950 and for 1,571 students surveyed in 1952 .
Of the latter sample , 944 persons had been studied two years earlier ; ;
hence changes in attitudes and values can be analyzed for identical individuals at two points in time .
In addition , the 1952 study collected comparable data from 4,585 students at ten other colleges and universities scattered across the country : Dartmouth , Harvard , Yale , Wesleyan , North Carolina , Fisk , Texas , University of California at Los Angeles , Wayne , and Michigan .
We find , in the first place , that the students overwhelmingly approve of higher education , positively evaluate the job their own institution is doing , do not accept most of the criticisms levelled against higher education in the public prints , and , on the whole , approve of the way their university deals with value-problems and value inculcation .
It is not our impression that these evaluations are naively uncritical resultants of blissful ignorance ; ;
rather , the generality of these students find their university experience congenial to their own sense of values .
Students are approximately equally divided between those who regard vocational preparation as the primary goal of an ideal education and those who chose a general liberal education .
Other conceivable goals , such as character-education and social adjustment , are of secondary importance to them .
The ideal of a liberal education impresses itself upon the students more and more as they move through college .
Even in such technical curricula as engineering , the senior is much more likely than the freshman to choose , as an ideal , liberal education over specific vocational preparation .
In the university milieu of scholarship and research , of social diversity , of new ideas and varied and wide-ranging interests , `` socialization '' into a campus culture apparently means heightened appreciation of the idea of a liberal education in the arts and sciences .
Students' choices of ideal educational goals are not arbitrary or whimsical .
There is a clear relationship between their educational evaluations and their basic pattern of general values .
The selective and directional qualities of basic value-orientations are clearly evident in these data : the `` success-oriented '' students choose vocational preparation , the `` other-directed '' choose goals of social adjustment ( `` getting along with people '' ) , the `` intellectuals '' choose a liberal arts emphasis .
The same patterned consistency shows itself in occupational choices .
There is impressive consistency between specific occupational preferences and the student's basic conception of what is for him a good way of life .
And , contrary to many popular assertions , the goal-values chosen do not seem to us to be primarily oriented to materialistic success nor to mere conformity .
Our students want occupations that permit them to use their talents and training , to be creative and original , to work with and to help other people .
They also want money , prestige , and security .
But they are optimistic about their prospects in these regards ; ;
they set limits to their aspirations -- few aspire to millions of dollars or to `` imperial '' power and glory .
Within the fixed frame of these aspirations , they can afford to place a high value on the expressive and people-oriented aspects of occupation and to minimize the instrumental-reward values of power , prestige , and wealth .
Occupational choices are also useful -- and interesting -- in bringing out clearly that values do not constitute the only component in goals and aspirations .
For there is also the `` face of reality '' in the form of the individual's perceptions of his own abilities and interests , of the objective possibilities open to him , of the familial and other social pressures to which he is exposed .
We find `` reluctant recruits '' whose values are not in line with their expected occupation's characteristics .
Students develop occupational images -- not always accurate or detailed -- and they try to fit their values to the presumed characteristics of the imagined occupation .
The purely cognitive or informational problems are often acute .
Furthermore , many reluctant recruits are yielding to social demands , or compromising in the face of their own limitations of opportunity , or of ability and performance .
Thus , many a creativity-oriented aspirant for a career in architecture , drama , or journalism , resigns himself to a real estate business ; ;
many a people-oriented student who dreams of the M.D. decides to enter his father's advertising agency ; ;
and many a hopeful incipient business executive decides it were better to teach the theory of business administration than to practice it .
The old ideal of the independent entrepreneur is extant -- but so is the recognition that the main chance may be in a corporate bureaucracy .
In their views on dating , courtship , sex , and family life , our students prefer what they are expected to prefer .
For them , in the grim words of a once-popular song , love and marriage go together like a horse and carriage .
Their expressed standards concerning sex roles , desirable age for marriage , characteristics of an ideal mate , number of children desired are congruent with the values and stereotypes of the preceding generation -- minus compulsive rebellion .
They even accept the `` double standard '' of sex morality in a double sense , i.e. , both sexes agree that standards for men differ from standards for women , and women apply to both sexes a standard different from that held by men .
`` Conservatism '' and `` traditionalism '' seem implied by what has just been said .
But these terms are treacherous .
In the field of political values , it is certainly true that students are not radical , not rebels against their parents or their peers .
And as they go through college , the students tend to bring their political position in line with that prevalent in the social groups to which they belong .
Yet they have accepted most of the extant `` welfare state '' provisions for health , security , and the regulation of economic affairs , and they overwhelmingly approve of the traditional `` liberalism '' of the Bill of Rights .
When their faith in civil liberties is tested against strong pressures of social expediency in specific issues , e.g. , suppression of `` dangerous ideas '' , many waver and give in .
The students who are most willing to acquiesce in the suppression of civil liberties are also those who are most likely to be prejudiced against minority groups , to be conformist and traditionalistic in general social attitudes , and to lack a basic faith in people .
As one looks at the existing evidence , one finds a correlation , although only a slight one , between high grades and `` libertarian '' values .
But the correlation is substantial only among upperclassmen .
In other words , as students go through college , those who are most successful academically tend to become more committed to a `` Bill of Rights '' orientation .
College in gross -- just the general experience -- may have varying effects , but the students who are successful emerge with strengthened and clarified democratic values .
This finding is consistent also with the fact that student leaders are more likely to be supporters of the values implicit in civil liberties than the other students .
There is now substantial evidence from several major studies of college students that the experience of the college years results in a certain , selective homogenization of attitudes and values .
Detached from their prior statuses and social groups and exposed to the pervasive stimuli of the university milieu , the students tend to assimilate a new common culture , to converge toward norms characteristic of their own particular campus .
Furthermore , in certain respects , there are norms common to colleges and universities across the country .
For instance , college-educated people consistently show up in study after study as more often than others supporters of the Bill of Rights and other democratic rights and liberties .
The interesting thing in this connection is that the norms upon which students tend to converge include toleration of diversity .
To the extent that our sampling of the orientations of American college students in the years 1950 and 1952 may be representative of our culture -- and still valid in 1959 -- we are disposed to question the summary characterization of the current generation as silent , beat , apathetic , or as a mass of other-directed conformists who are guided solely by social radar without benefit of inner gyroscopes .
Our data indicate that these students of today do basically accept the existing institutions of the society , and , in the face of the realities of complex and large-scale economic and political problems , make a wary and ambivalent delegation of trust to those who occupy positions of legitimized responsibility for coping with such collective concerns .
In a real sense they are admittedly conservative , but their conservatism incorporates a traditionalized embodiment of the original `` radicalism '' of 1776 .
Although we have no measures of its strength or intensity , the heritage of the doctrine of inalienable rights is retained .
As they move through the college years our young men and women are `` socialized '' into a broadly similar culture , at the level of personal behavior .
In this sense also , they are surely conformists .
It is even true that some among them use the sheer fact of conformity -- `` everyone does it '' -- as a criterion for conduct .
But the extent of ethical robotism is easily overestimated .
Few students are really so faceless in the not-so-lonely crowd of the swelling population in our institutions of higher learning .
And it may be well to recall that to say `` conformity '' is , in part , another way of saying `` orderly human society '' .
In the field of religious beliefs and values , the college students seem to faithfully reflect the surrounding culture .
Their commitments are , for the most part , couched in a familiar idiom .
Students testify to a felt need for a religious faith or ultimate personal philosophy .
Avowed atheists or freethinkers are so rare as to be a curiosity .
The religious quest is often intense and deep , and there are students on every campus who are seriously wrestling with the most profound questions of meaning and value .
At the same time , a major proportion of these young men and women see religion as a means of personal adjustment , an anchor for family life , a source of emotional security .
These personal and social goals often overshadow the goals of intellectual clarity , and spiritual transcendence .
The `` cult of adjustment '' does exist .
It exists alongside the acceptance of traditional forms of organized religion ( church , ordained personnel , ritual , dogma ) .
Still another segment of the student population consists of those who seek , in what they regard as religion , intellectual clarity , rational belief , and ethical guidance and reinforcement .
Our first impression of the data was that the students were surprisingly orthodox and religiously involved .
Upon second thought we were forced to realize that we have very few reliable historical benchmarks against which we might compare the present situation , and that conclusions that present-day students are `` more '' or `` less '' religious could not be defended on the basis of our data .
As we looked more intently at the content of our belief and the extent of religious participation , we received the impression that many of the religious convictions expressed represented a conventional acceptance , of low intensity .
But , here again , comparative benchmarks are lacking , and we do not know , in any case , what measure of profoundity and intensity to expect from healthy , young , secure and relatively inexperienced persons ; ;
after all , feelings of immortality and invulnerability are standard illusions of youth .
Nor are optimistic and socially-oriented themes at all rare in the distinctive religious history of this country .
Kluckhohn recently has summarized evidence regarding changes in values during a period of years , primarily 1935-1955 , but extending much farther back in some instances .
A variety of data are assembled to bear upon such alleged changes as diminished puritan morality , work-success ethic , individualism , achievement , lessened emphasis on future-time orientation in favor of sociability , moral relativism , consideration and tolerance , conformity , hedonistic present-time orientation .
Although he questions the extent and nature of the alleged revival of religion and the alleged increase in conformity , and thinks that `` hedonistic '' present-time orientation does not have the meaning usually attributed to it , he does conclude that Americans increasingly enjoy leisure without guilt , do not stress achievement so much as formerly , are more accepting of group harmony as a goal , more tolerant of diversity and aware of other cultures .
From New Jersey , Morgan hastened to the headquarters of Washington at Whitemarsh , Pennsylvania , arriving there on November 18th .
There was much sickness in the corps , and the men were , in addition , without the clothing , shoes , and blankets needed for the winter weather .
Morgan himself had sciatica again .
Even on his tough constitution , the exposure and strenuous activity were beginning to tell in earnest .
On the morning of November 17th , Cornwallis and 2,000 men had left Philadelphia with the object of capturing Fort Mercer at Red Bank , New Jersey .
In order to prevent this , Washington hastened to dispatch several units to reinforce the fort , including a force under the Marquis De Lafayette containing some 160 of Morgan's riflemen , all who were fit for duty at this time , the rest having no shoes .
Although the fort was evacuated in the face of the force of Cornwallis , Morgan and his men did have a chance to take another swing at the redcoats .
A picket guard of about 350 , mostly Hessians , were attacked by the Americans under Lafayette , and driven back to their camp , some twenty to thirty of them falling before the riflemen's fire .
`` I never saw men '' , Lafayette declared in regard to the riflemen , `` so merry , so spirited , and so desirous to go on to the enemy , whatever force they might have , as that small party in this fight '' .
Nathanael Greene told Washington that `` Lafayette was charmed with the spirited behavior of the militia and riflemen '' .
A few days later it was learned that General Howe was planning an attack upon the American camp .
The British general moved his forces north from Philadelphia to Chestnut Hill , near the right wing of the patriot encampment .
Here the Pennsylvania militia skirmished with the British , but soon fled .
Morgan was ordered to attack the enemy , who had meantime moved to Edge Hill on the left of the Americans .
Similar orders were given to the Maryland militia .
Morgan immediately disposed his troops for action and found he had not long to wait .
A body of redcoats were seen marching down a nearby slope , a tempting target for the riflemen , who threw a volley into their ranks and `` messed up '' the smart formation considerably .
Now the riflemen and the Marylanders followed up their beginning and closed in on the British , giving them another telling round of fire .
The redcoats ran like rabbits .
But the Maryland militia had likewise fled , all too typical of this type of soldier during the Revolution , an experience which gave Morgan little confidence in militia in general , as he watched other instances of their breaking in hot engagements .
The British , although suffering considerable losses , noted the defection of the Marylanders , made a stand , then turned and attacked Morgan who became greatly outnumbered and had to retire .
The Americans lost forty-four men , among them Major Joseph Morris of Morgan's regiment , an officer who was regarded with high esteem and affection , not only by his commander , but by Washington and Lafayette as well .
The latter was so upset on learning of the death of Morris , that he wrote Morgan a letter , showing his own warmhearted generosity .
After complimenting Morgan and the riflemen and saying he was praising them to Congress , too , the ardent Frenchman added he felt that Congress should make some financial restitution to the widow and family of Morris , but that he knew Morgan realized how long such action usually required , if it was done at all .
`` As Mrs. Morris may be in some want before that time '' , Lafayette continued , `` I am going to trouble you with a commission which I beg you will execute with the greatest secrecy .
If she wanted to borrow any sum of money in expecting the arrangements of Congress , it would not become a stranger , unknown to her , to offer himself for that purpose .
But you could ( as from yourself ) tell her that you had friends who , being with the army , don't know what to do with their money and would willingly let her have one or many thousand dollars '' .
This was accordingly done , and the plight of the grateful Mrs. Morris was much relieved as a result of the generous loan , the amount of which is not known .
Apparently still sensitive about the idea with which General Gates had approached him at Saratoga , namely , that George Washington be replaced , Morgan was vehement in his support of the commander-in-chief during the campaign around Philadelphia .
Richard Peters , Secretary of the Board of War , thought Morgan was so extreme on the subject that he accused him of trying to pick a quarrel .
Morgan hotly denied this and informed the Board of War that the men in camp linked the name of Peters with the plot against Washington .
Peters insisted that this impression was a great misunderstanding , and evidently , from the quarrel , obtained an unfavorable impression of Morgan's judgment .
Such a situation regarding the Board of War could hardly have helped Morgan's chances for promotion when that matter came before the group later on .
In late December , the American army moved from Whitemarsh to Valley Forge , and although the distance was only 13 miles , the journey took more than a week because of the bad weather , the barefooted and almost naked men .
The position of the new camp was admirably selected and well fortified , its easily defensible nature being one good reason why Howe did not attack it .
Besides helping to prevent the movement of the British to the west , Valley Forge also obstructed the trade between Howe's forces and the farmers , thus threatening the vital subsistence of the redcoats and rendering their foraging to obtain necessary supplies extremely hazardous .
In order to see that this hindering situation remained effective , Washington detached several bodies of his troops to the periphery of the Philadelphia area .
Morgan and his corps were placed on the west side of the Schuylkill River , with instructions to intercept all supplies found going to the city and to keep a close eye on the movements of the enemy .
The headquarters of Morgan was on a farm , said to have been particularly well located so as to prevent the farmers nearby from trading with the British , a practice all too common to those who preferred to sell their produce for British gold rather than the virtually worthless Continental currency .
In his dealings with offenders , however , Morgan was typically firm but just .
For example , he captured some persons from York County , who with teams were taking to Philadelphia the furniture of a man who had just been released from prison through the efforts of his wife , and who apparently was helpless to prevent the theft of his household goods .
Morgan took charge of the furniture and restored it to its thankful owners , but he let the culprits who had stolen it go free .
Morgan complained to Washington about the men detailed to him for scouting duty , most of them he said being useless .
`` They straggle at such a rate '' , he told the commander-in-chief , `` that if the enemy were enterprising , they might get two from us , when we would take one of them , which makes me wish General Howe would go on , lest any incident happen to us '' .
If the hardships of the winter at Valley Forge were trying for healthy men , they were , of course , much more so for those not in good health .
Daniel Morgan's rheumatic condition worsened with the increase of the cold and damp weather .
He had braved the elements and the enemy , but the strain , aided by the winter , was catching up with him at last .
Also , he was now forty-three years old .
The mild activity of his command during the sojourn of the troops at Valley Forge could be handled by a subordinate , he felt , so like Henry Knox , equally loyal to Washington , who went to Boston at this time , Morgan received permission to visit his home in Virginia for several weeks .
In his absence , the rifle regiment was under the command of Major Thomas Posey , another able Virginian .
But Morgan did not leave before he had written a letter to a William Pickman in Salem , Massachusetts , apparently an acquaintance , praising Washington and saying that the slanders propagated about him were `` opposed by the general current of the people to exalt General Gates at the expense of General Washington was injurious to the latter .
If there be a disinterested patriot in America , 'tis General Washington , and his bravery , none can question '' .
It is doubtful if Morgan was able to take home much money to his wife and children , for his pay , as shown by the War Department Abstracts of early 1778 was $75 a month as a colonel , and that apt to be delayed .
He was shown a warm welcome regardless , and spent the time in Winchester recuperating from his ailment , enjoying his family and arranging his private affairs which were , of course , run down .
His neighbors celebrated his return , even if it was only temporary , and Morgan was especially gratified by the quaint expression of an elderly friend , Isaac Lane , who told him , `` A man that has so often left all that is dear to him , as thou hast , to serve thy country , must create a sympathetic feeling in every patriotic heart '' .
There must have been special feelings of joy and patriotism in the heart of Daniel Morgan too , when the news was received on April 30th of the recognition by France of the independence of the United States .
His fellow Virginian , George Washington , had stated , `` I believe no event was ever received with more heartfelt joy '' .
The dreary camp at Valley Forge was turned into an arena of rejoicing .
Even the dignified Washington indulged in a game of wickets with some children .
His soldiers on the whole did not celebrate so mildly .
On May 6th , Morgan , who had returned , received from Washington orders to `` send out patrols under vigilant officers '' to keep near the enemy .
`` The reason for this '' , the orders said , `` is that the enemy may think to take advantage of the celebration of this day .
The troops must have more than the common quantity of liquor , and perhaps there will be some little drunkenness among them '' .
Apparently no serious disorders resulted from the celebration , and within a few days , Morgan joined the force of Lafayette who now had command of some 2,000 men at Barren Hill , not far above Philadelphia on the Schuylkill .
The Frenchman had been ordered to approach the enemy's lines , harass them and get intelligence of their movements .
Interestingly enough , the order transmitted to Morgan through Alexander Hamilton also informed him that `` A party of Indians will join the party to be sent from your command at Whitemarsh , and act with them '' .
These were Oneida Indians .
Washington evidently was anxious for Morgan to be cautious as well as aggressive , for on May 17th , 18th and 20th he admonished the leader of the riflemen-rangers to be on the alert .
Obviously the commander-in-chief had confidence that Morgan would furnish him good intelligence too , for on the 23rd of May , he told Morgan that the British were prepared to move , perhaps in the night , and asked Morgan to have two of his best horses ready to dispatch to General Smallwood with the intelligence obtained .
Meantime , however , this same General Smallwood seemed to be serving chivalry as well as the American army .
Colonel Benjamin Ford wrote to Morgan from Wilmington that he understood a Mrs. Sanderson from Maryland had obtained permission from Smallwood to visit Philadelphia , and would return on May 26th , escorted by several officers from Maryland `` belonging to the new levies in the British service '' .
Ford urged Morgan to capture these men , who , he thought , might be disguised as Quakers or peasants .
Morgan took the suggested steps , but when Mrs. Sanderson appeared , there was nobody with her but her husband , whom he promptly sent to headquarters to be questioned .
But Morgan evidently reported matters of intelligence much more important to his commanding general .
A letter of a few days later from Washington's aide to Morgan stated , `` His Excellency is highly pleased with your conduct upon this occasion '' .
For by now the original cause of the quarrel , Philip's seizure of Gascony , was only one strand in the spider web of French interests that overlay all western Europe and that had been so well and closely spun that the lightest movement could set it trembling from one end to the other .
Even so , Edward's ambassadors can scarcely have foreseen that five years of unremitting work lay ahead of them before peace was finally made and that when it did come the countless embassies that left England for Rome during that period had very little to do with it .
It is hard not to lay most of the blame for their failures on the pope .
Nogaret is hardly an impartial witness , and even he did not make his charges against Boniface until the latter was dead , but there is some truth in what he said and more in what he did not say .
It was not merely a hunger for `` money , gold and precious objects '' that delayed the papal pronouncement that could have brought the war to an end ; ;
the pope was playing a dangerous game , with so many balls in the air at once that a misstep would bring them all about his ears , and his only hope was to temporize so that he could take advantage of every change in the delicate balance of European affairs .
When the negotiations began , his quarrel with the king of France was temporarily in abeyance , and he had no intention of reviving it so long as there was hope that French money would come to pay the troops who , under Charles of Valois , the papal vicar of Tuscany , were so valuable in the crusade against the Colonna cardinals and their Sicilian allies .
If his circumspection in regard to Philip's sensibilities went so far that he even refused to grant a dispensation for the marriage of Amadee's daughter , Agnes , to the son of the dauphin of Vienne -- a truly peacemaking move according to thirteenth-century ideas , for Savoy and Dauphine were as usual fighting on opposite sides -- for fear that he might seem to be favoring the anti-French coalition , he would certainly never take the far more drastic step of ordering the return of Gascony to Edward , even though , as he admitted to the English ambassadors , he had been advised that the original cession was invalid .
On the other hand , he did not want to offend Edward either , and he found himself in a very difficult position .
On the surface , the whole question was purely feudal .
The French were now occupying Gascony and Flanders on the technical grounds that their rulers had forfeited them by a breach of the feudal contract .
But Edward was invading Scotland for precisely the same reason , and his insubordinate vassal was the ally of the king of France .
Boniface had to uphold the sacredness of the feudal contract at all costs , for it was only as suzerain of Sicily and of the Patrimony of Peter that he had any justification for his Italian wars , but in the English-Scottish-French triangle it was almost impossible for him to recognize the claims of any one of the contestants without seeming to invalidate those of the other two .
Because of these involvements in the matter at stake , Boniface lacked the impartiality that is supposed to be an essential qualification for the position of arbiter , and in retrospect that would seem to be sufficient reason why the English embassies to the Curia proved so fruitless .
But when the situation was so complicated that even Nogaret , one of the principal actors in the drama , could misinterpret the pope's motives , it is possible that Othon and his companions , equally baffled , attributed their difficulties to a more immediate cause .
This was Boniface's monumental tactlessness .
`` Tact '' , by its very derivation , implies that its possessor keeps in touch with other people , but the author of Clericis Laicos and Unam Sanctam , the wielder of the two swords , the papal sun of which the imperial moon was but a dim reflection , the peer of Caesar and vice-regent of Christ , was so high above other human beings that he had forgotten what they were like .
He was a learned and brilliant man , one of the best jurists in Europe and with flashes of penetrating insight , and yet in his dealings with other people , particularly when he tried to be ingratiating , he was capable of an abysmal stupidity that can have come only from a complete incomprehension of human nature and human motives .
This lofty disregard for others was not shared by such men as Pierre Flotte and his associates , that `` brilliant group of mediocre men '' , as Powicke calls them , who provided the brains for the French embassy that came to Rome under the nominal leadership of the archbishop of Narbonne , the duke of Burgundy , and the count of St.-Pol .
They had risen from humble beginnings by their own diligence and astuteness , they were unfettered by the codes that bound nobles like Othon or even the older generation of clerks like Hotham , and they were working for an end that their opponents had never even visualized .
Boniface was later to explain to the English that Robert of Burgundy and Guy De St.-Pol were easy enough to do business with ; ;
it was the clerks who caused the mischief and who made him say that the ruling passion of their race was covetousness and that in dealing with them he never knew whether he had to do with a Frenchman or with a devil .
To the pope , head of the universal Church , to the duke of Burgundy , taking full advantage of his position on the borders of France and of the Empire , or to Othon , who found it quite natural that he should do homage to Edward for Tipperary and to the count of Savoy for Grandson , Flotte's outspoken nationalism was completely incomprehensible .
And yet he made no pretense about it ; ;
when the pope , trying no doubt to appeal to his better nature , said to him , `` You have already taken Normandy .
Do you want to drive the king of England from all his overseas possessions '' ? ?
The Frenchman's answer was a terse `` Vous dites vrai '' .
Loyal and unscrupulous , with a single-minded ambition to which he devoted all his energies , he outmatched the English diplomats time and time again until , by a kind of poetic justice , he fell at the battle of Courtrai , the victim of the equally nationalistic if less articulate Flemings .
The English , relying on a prejudiced arbiter and confronted with superior diplomatic skill , were also hampered in their negotiations by the events that were taking place at home .
The Scots had found a new leader in William Wallace , and Edward's yearly expeditions across the Border called for evermounting taxes , which only increased his difficulties with the barons and the clergy .
He was unable to send any more help to his allies on the Continent , and during the next few years many of them , left to resist French pressure unaided , surrendered to the inevitable and made their peace with Philip .
The defeat and death of Adolf of Nassau at the hands of Albert of Habsburg also worked to the disadvantage of the English , for all the efforts to revive the anti-French coalition came to nothing when Philip made an alliance with the new king of the Romans .
These shifts in alliance and allegiance not only increased the difficulties confronting the English embassy as a whole , but also directly involved the two Savoyards , Amadee and Othon .
In spite of the armistice negotiated by Amadee two years earlier , the war between Bishop Guillaume of Lausanne and Louis of Savoy was still going on , and although little is known about it , that little proves that it was yet another phase of the struggle against French expansion and was closely interwoven with the larger conflict .
A second truce had been arbitrated in April , 1298 , by Jean D'Arlay , lord of Chalon-sur-Saone , the most staunch of Edward's Burgundian allies , and these last were represented in the discussions at the Curia by Gautier de Montfaucon , Othon's neighbor and a member of the Vaudois coalition .
But although in many of these discussions Othon and Amadee might have been tempted to consider their own interests as well as those of the king , Edward's confidence in them was so absolute that they were made the acknowledged leaders of the embassy .
Amadee may have owed this partly to his relationship with the king , but Othon , who at sixty seems still to have been a simple knight , merited his position solely by his own character and ability .
The younger men , Vere , and Pembroke , who was also Edward's cousin and whose Lusignan blood gave him the swarthy complexion that caused Edward of Carnarvon's irreverent friend , Piers Gaveston , to nickname him `` Joseph the Jew '' , were relatively new to the game of diplomacy , but Pontissara had been on missions to Rome before , and Hotham , a man of great learning , `` jocund in speech , agreeable to meet , of honest religion , and pleasing in the eyes of all '' , and an archbishop to boot , was as reliable and experienced as Othon himself .
But all the reports of this first embassy show that the two Savoyards were the heads of it , for they were the only ones who were empowered to swear for the king that he would abide by the pope's decision and who were allowed to appoint deputies in the event that one was unavoidably absent .
This also gave them the unpleasant duty of being spokesmen for the mission , and they could foresee that that would not be easy .
Underneath all the high-sounding phrases of royal and papal letters and behind the more down-to-earth instructions to the envoys was the inescapable fact that Edward would have to desert his Flemish allies and leave them to the vengeance of their indignant suzerain , the king of France , in return for being given an equally free hand with the insubordinate Scots .
This was a doubly bitter blow to the king .
In the eyes of those who still cared for such things , it was a reflection on his honor , and it gave further grounds for complaint to his overtaxed subjects , who were already grumbling -- although probably not in Latin -- `` Non est lex sana Quod regi sit mea lana '' .
Bad relations between England and Flanders brought hard times to the shepherds scattered over the dales and downs as well as to the crowded Flemish cities , and while the English , so far , had done no more than grumble , Othon had seen what the discontent might lead to , for before he left the Low Countries the citizens of Ghent had risen in protest against the expense of supporting Edward and his troops , and the regular soldiers had found it unexpectedly difficult to put down the nasty little riot that ensued .
In all the talk of feudal rights , the knights and bishops must never forget the woolworkers , nor was it easy to do so , for all along the road to Italy they passed the Florentine pack trains going home with their loads of raw wool from England and rough Flemish cloth , the former to be spun and woven by the Arte Della Lana and the latter to be refined and dyed by the Arte Della Calimala with the pigment recently discovered in Asia Minor by one of their members , Bernardo Rucellai , the secret of which they jealously kept for themselves .
These chatty merchants made amusing and instructive traveling companions , for their business took them to all four corners of the globe , and Florentine gossip had already reached a high stage of development as even a cursory glance at the Inferno will prove .
A northern ambassador , willing to keep his mouth shut and his ears open , could learn a lot that would stand him in good stead at the Curia .
They had other topics of conversation , besides their news from courts and fairs , which were of interest to Othon , the builder of castles in Wales and churches in his native country .
Behind him lay the Low Countries , where men were still completing the cathedrals that a later Florentine would describe as `` a malediction of little tabernacles , one on top of the other , with so many pyramids and spires and leaves that it is a wonder they stand up at all , for they look as though they were made of paper instead of stone or marble '' ; ;
the Low Countries , where the Middle Ages were to last for another two centuries and die out only when Charles the Bold of Burgundy met his first defeat in the fields and forests below the walls of Grandson .
It usually turned out well for him because either he liked the right people or there were only a few wrong people in the town .
Alfred wanted to invest in my father's hotel and advance enough money to build a larger place .
It was a very tempting offer .
My father would have done it if it hadn't been for my mother , who had a fear of being in debt to anyone -- even Alfred Alpert .
In spite of his being well liked there were a few people who were very careful about Alfred .
They had my mother's opinion of him : that he was too sharp or a little too good to be true .
One of the people who was afraid of Alfred was his own brother , Lew .
I don't know how and I don't know why but the two stores , the one in Margaretville and the one in Fleischmanns that had been set up as a partnership , were dissolved , separated from each other .
Everything was all very friendly , except when it came to Harry , the youngest brother .
Alfred , who was a good deal older than Harry , had treated him like a son , and when Harry decided to stay in business with Lew instead of going with Alfred , Alfred looked on the decision as a betrayal .
From that day on he never spoke to Harry or to Lew , or to Lew's two boys , Mort and Jimmy .
The six miles between the towns became an ocean and the Alperts became a family of strangers .
Time went on and everybody got older .
I became fifteen , sixteen , then twenty , and still Tessie Alpert sat on the porch with a rose in her hair , and Alfred got richer and sicker with diabetes .
It was in the spring of the year when he took to his bed and Tessie and Alfred found out that they didn't know each other .
They were like two strangers .
The store was their marriage , and when Alfred had to leave it there was nothing to hold them together .
Tessie , everybody thought , was a strong woman , but she was only strong because she had Alfred to lean on .
And when Alfred was forced into his bed , Tessie left the front porch of the store and sat at home , rocking in her rocker in the living room , staring out the window -- the rose still in her hair .
Tessie could do nothing for Alfred .
She couldn't cook or clean or make him comfortable .
Instead she waited for Alfred to get better and take care of her .
Spring was life -- and Alfred Alpert in his sickroom was death .
Alfred knew that , too .
I remember him pointing out of the window and saying that he wished he could live to see another spring but that he wouldn't .
Alfred began to put his affairs in order , and he went about it like a man putting his things into storage .
My father , who liked Alfred very much , was a constant visitor .
One day Alfred told him that he had decided to leave everything to me .
My father , a wise man , asked him not to .
He knew Alfred liked me ; ;
if he wanted to leave me something let it be a trinket , nothing else .
By leaving me everything he wouldn't be doing me a favor , my father told him , and he didn't want to see his daughter involved in a lawsuit .
He didn't want Alfred to leave me trouble because that's all it would be , and Alfred understood .
Alfred was getting too sick to stay in his own home .
The doctor wanted him in a hospital ; ;
the nearest one was forty miles away in Kingston .
The day Alfred left his home and Fleischmanns he gave up the convictions of a lifetime .
He sent me for Meltzer the Butcher , whom he wanted not as a friend but as a rabbi .
Meltzer knew why I had come for him .
Solemnly he walked me back to Alfred's house without a word passing between us .
He entered the house in silence , walked into Alfred's room , and closed the door behind him .
I sat down to wait , and I watched Tessie Alpert , who hadn't moved or said a word but kept staring out of the window .
For a few minutes there was nothing to hear .
Then Meltzer's voice , quiet , calm , strong , started the Kaddish , the prayer for the dead .
I could hear Alfred's voice a few words behind Meltzer's like a counterpoint , punctuated by sobs of sorrow and resignation .
