We are keeping a number of surprises under our hats .
But we can't tell it all now and then have no new excitement later '' .
Basin Street Beat
But she does indicate festivities will start early , that a jazz combo will `` give with the Basin Street beat '' during the cocktail and dinner hours and that Lester Lanin's orchestra will take over during the dancing .
As for food , Mrs. Henry Louchheim , chairman of this phase , is a globetrotter who knows good food .
`` New Orleans '' ? ?
She says , `` of course I've had the best .
It is just bad luck that we are having the party in a month with no R's , so no oysters .
But we have lots of other New Orleans specialties .
I know they will be good .
We've tried them out on the club chef -- or say , he has tried them out on us and we have selected the best '' .
Scenic effects
Guests will be treated to Gulf Coast scenic effects .
There will be masses of flowers , reproductions of the handsome old buildings with their grillwork and other things that are typical of New Orleans .
Mrs. Harry K. Cohen is chairman of this phase and she is getting an artistic assist from A. Van Hollander , display director of Gimbel Brothers .
The gala is the Thrift Shop's annual bundle party and , as all Thrift Shop friends know , that means the admission is a bundle of used clothing in good condition , contributions of household equipment , bric-a-brac and such to stock the shelves at the shop's headquarters at 1213 Walnut St. .
Bundle centers
For the convenience of guests bundle centers have been established throughout the city and suburbs where the donations may be deposited between now and the date of the big event .
In addition to the bundles , guests pay the cost of their dinners .
Members of the young set who would like to come to the party only during the dancing time are welcomed .
The Thrift Shop , with Mrs. Bernhard S. Blumenthal as president , is one of the city's most successful fund-raisers for the Federation of Jewish Agencies .
Some idea of the competence of the women is indicated in the contribution made by them during the past 25 years that totals $840,000 .
It's big business
`` Big business , this little Thrift Shop business '' , say the members .
For most of the 25 years the operation was under feminine direction .
In the past few years the men , mostly husbands of members , have taken an interest .
Louis Glazer is chairman of the men's committee that , among other jobs , takes over part of the responsibility for staffing the shop during its evening hours .
Mrs. Theodore Kapnek is vice chairman of the committee for the gala .
Mrs. Richard Newburger is chairman of hostesses .
Mrs. Arthur Loeb is making arrangements for a reception ; ;
Mrs. Joan Lichtenstein , for publicity ; ;
Mrs. Harry M. Rose , Jr. , for secretarial duties ; ;
Mrs. Ralph Taussig , for junior aides ; ;
Mr. and Mrs. B. Lewis Kaufnabb , for senior aides , and Mrs. Samuel P. Weinberg , for the bundles .
In addition , Mr. and Mrs. Allan Goodman are controllers , Mrs. Paul Stone is treasurer and Mrs. Albert Quell is in charge of admittance for the dancing at 9 P.m. .
Besides the bundle centers where contributions may be made there will be facilities at Philmont Country Club for those who would like to bring the bundles on the night of the party .
The women's committee of St. David's Church will hold its annual pre-Fair pink parade , a dessert bridge and fashion show at 1 p.m. on Monday , April 17 , in the chapel assembly room , Wayne .
Mrs. Robert O. Spurdle is chairman of the committee , which includes Mrs. James A. Moody , Mrs. Frank C. Wilkinson , Mrs. Ethel Coles , Mrs. Harold G. Lacy , Mrs. Albert W. Terry , Mrs. Henry M. Chance , 2d , Mrs. Robert O. Spurdle , Jr. , Mrs. Harcourt N. Trimble , Jr. , Mrs. John A. Moller , Mrs. Robert Zeising , Mrs. William G. Kilhour , Mrs. Hughes Cauffman , Mrs. John L. Baringer and Mrs. Clyde Newman .
The fashion show , by Natalie Collett will have Mrs. John Newbold as commentator .
Models will be Mrs. Samuel B. D. Baird , Mrs. William H. Meyle , Jr. , Mrs. Richard W. Hole , Mrs. William F. Harrity , Mrs. Robert O. Spurdle , Mrs. E. H. Kloman , Mrs. Robert W. Wolcott , Jr. , Mrs. Frederick C. Wheeler , Jr. , Mrs. William A Boyd , Mrs F. Vernon Putt .
Col. Clifton Lisle , of Chester Springs , who headed the Troop Committee for much of its second and third decades , is now an honorary member .
Each year he invites the boys to camp out on his estate for one of their big week ends of the year .
The Troop is proud of its camping-out program -- on year-round schedule and was continued even when sub-zero temperatures were registered during the past winter .
`` We worry '' , say the mothers .
`` But there never is any need .
The boys love it '' .
Mrs. John Charles Cotty is chairman of publicity for the country fair and Mrs. Francis G. Felske and Mrs. Francis Smythe , of posters .
They all are of Wayne .
`` Meet the Artist '' is the invitation issued by members of the Greater Philadelphia Section of the National Council of Jewish Women as they arrange for an annual exhibit and sale of paintings and sculpture at the Philmont Country Club on April 8 and 9 .
A preview party for sponsors of the event and for the artists is set for April 8 .
The event will be open to the public the following day .
Proceeds will be used by the section to further its program in science , education and social action on local , national and international levels .
Noted artist
Mrs. Monte Tyson , chairman , says the work of 100 artists well known in the Delaware Valley area will be included in the exhibition and sale .
Among them will be Marc Shoettle , Ben Shahn , Nicholas Marsicano , Alfred Van Loen and Milton Avery .
Mr. Shoettle has agreed to do a portrait of the family of the person who wins the door prize .
The event is the sixth on the annual calendar of the local members of the National Council of Jewish Women .
It originated with the Wissahickon Section .
When this and other units combined to form the present group , it was taken on as a continuing fund-raiser .
Others assisting
Mrs. Jerome Blum and Mrs. Meyer Schultz are co-chairmen this year .
Assisting as chairmen of various committees are Mrs. Alvin Blum , Mrs. Leonard Malmud , Mrs. Edward Fernberger , Mrs. Robert Cushman .
Also Mrs. Berton Korman , Mrs. Morton Rosen , Mrs. Jacques Zinman , Mrs. Evelyn Rosen , Mrs. Henry Schultz , Mr. and Mrs. I. S. Kamens , Mrs. Jack Langsdorf , Mrs. Leonard Liss , Mrs. Gordon Blumberg , Mrs. Oscar Bregman , Mrs. Alfred Kershbaum and Mrs. Edward Sabol .
Dr. and Mrs. N. Volney Ludwick have had as guests Mr. and Mrs. John J. Evans , Jr. , of `` Kimbolton House '' , Rockhall , Md. .
Mrs. Edward App will entertain the members of her Book Club on Tuesday .
Mrs. A. Voorhees Anderson entertained at a luncheon at her home , on Monday .
Mr. and Mrs. Anderson were entertained at dinner on Sunday by Mr. and Mrs. Frank Coulson , of Fairless Hills .
Mr. and Mrs. Major Morris and their son-in-law and daughter , Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Glennon , and their children will spend several days in Brigantine , N. J. .
Mr. and Mrs. James Janssen announce the birth of a daughter , Patricia Lynn Janssen , on March 2 .
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Marella announce the engagement of their daughter , Miss Mary Ann Marella , to Mr. Robert L. Orcutt , son of Mr. and Mrs. Donald R. Orcutt , of Drexel Hill .
Miss Eileen Grant is spending several weeks visiting in Florida .
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Heinze are entertaining Mr. Walter Lehner , of Vienna ; ;
Mr. Ingo Dussa , of Dusseldorf , Germany , and Mr. Bietnar Haaek , of Brelin .
Mr. and Mrs. Harry D. Hoaps , Jr. have returned to their home in Drexel Park , after spending some time in Delray Beach Fla. .
Mr. and Mrs. James F. Mitchell , with their daughter , Anne , and son , James , Jr. are spending several weeks in Florida , and will visit in Clearwater .
Cmdr. Warren Taylor , USN. , and Mrs. Taylor , of E. Greenwich , R. I. , will have with them for the Easter holidays the latter's parents , Mr. and Mrs. John B. Walbridge , of Drexel Hill .
Mr. and Mrs. L. DeForest Emmert , formerly of Drexel Hill , and now of Newtown Square , are entertaining Mr. and Mrs. Ashman E. Emmert , of Temple , Pa. .
Mrs. William H. Merner , of Drexel Park , entertained at a luncheon at her home on Wednesday .
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Brown will return next week from Bermuda .
Mrs. H. E. Godwin will entertain the members of her Book Club at her home on Tuesday .
Dr. and Mrs. Richard Peter Vieth announce the engagement of their daughter , Miss Susan Ann Vieth , to Mr. Conrad Wall 3 , , son of Dr. Conrad Wall 2 , , and Mrs. Nell Kennedy Wall .
The marriage will be quietly celebrated in early February .
Miss Vieth was graduated from the Louise S. McGehee school and is attending Wellesley College in Wellesley , Mass. .
Her mother is the former Miss Stella Hayward .
Mr. Wall is a student at Tulane university , where he is a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity .
Their Majesties , The Queen of Carnival and The Queen of Comus , have jointly issued invitations for Shrove Tuesday evening at midnight at which time they will entertain in the grand ballroom of a downtown hotel following the balls of Rex and Comus .
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. McConnell and their son-in-law and daughter , Mr. and Mrs. Raymond B. Walker will be hosts this Tuesday evening at dinner at the State St. home of the Walkers honoring Mrs. McConnell's debutante niece , Miss Barbara Williams .
Debutante Miss Lady Helen Hardy will be feted at luncheon this Tuesday at which the hostess will be Mrs. Edwin Socola of Waveland , Miss. .
She will entertain at a Vieux Carre restaurant at 1 o'clock in the early afternoon .
Another debutante , Miss Virginia Richmond , will also be the honoree this Wednesday at luncheon at which Mrs. John Dane , will be hostess entertaining at a downtown hotel .
Miss Katherine Vickery , who attends Sweet Briar College in Virginia , will rejoin her father , Dr. Eugene Vickery , at the family home in Richmond pl. Wednesday for part of the Carnival festivities .
When the Achaeans entertained Wednesday last at their annual Carnival masquerade ball , Miss Margaret Pierson was chosen to rule over the festivities , presented at the Muncipal Auditorium and chosen as her ladies in waiting were Misses Clayton Nairne , Eleanor Eustis , Lynn Chapman , Irwin Leatherman of Robinsonville , Miss. and Helene Rowley .
The large municipal hall was ablaze with color , which shown out from the bright array of chic ballgowns worn by those participating in the `` maskers' dances '' .
The mother of young queen , Mrs. G. Henry Pierson Jr. chose a white brocade gown made on slim lines with panels of tomato-red and bright green satin extending down the back .
Mrs. Thomas Jordan selected a black taffeta frock made with a skirt of fringed tiers and worn with crimson silk slippers .
Mrs. Clayton Nairne , whose daughter , was among the court maids , chose a deep greenish blue lace gown .
Mrs. Fenwick Eustis , whose daughter was also a maid to the queen , wore an ashes of roses slipper satin gown .
Mrs. Peter Feringa Jr. , last year's Achaeans' queen , chose an eggshell white filmy lace short dress made with a wide decolletage trimmed with an edging of tulle .
Mrs. Eustis Reily's olive-green street length silk taffeta dress was embroidered on the bodice with gold threads and golden sequins and beads .
The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad announced yesterday it would reduce the total amount of its payroll by 10 per cent through salary cuts and lay-offs effective at 12:01 A.M. next Saturday .
The current monthly payroll comes to about $15,000,000 .
Howard E. Simpson , the railroad's president , said , `` A drastic decline in freight loading due principally to the severe slump in the movement of heavy goods has necessitated this regrettable action '' .
The reduction in expenses will affect employees in the thirteen states in which the B. & O. operates .
Salary cut and lay-offs
It will be accomplished in two ways : 1
A flat reduction of 10 per cent in the salary of all officers , supervisors and other employees not belonging to unions .
There are about 3,325 officers and employees in this class .
2
Sufficient lay-offs of union employees to bring about a 10 per cent cut in the union payroll expense .
Since the railroad cannot reduce the salary of individual union members under contract , it must accomplish its payroll reduction by placing some of the men on furlough , a B. & O. spokesman said .
Those union members kept on their jobs , therefore , will not take a cut in their wages .
The spokesman said the number to be furloughed cannot be estimated since the lay-offs must be carried out in each area depending on what men are most needed on the job .
A thug struck a cab driver in the face with a pistol last night after robbing him of $18 at Franklin and Mount Streets .
The victim , Norman B. Wiley , 38 , of the 900 block North Charles Street , was treated for cuts at Franklin Square Hospital after the robbery .
The driver told police he followed as the Negro man got out of the cab with his money .
The victim was beaten when he attempted to stop the bandit .
He said the assailant , who was armed with a automatic , entered the taxi at Pennsylvania Avenue and Gold Street .
In another attack , Samuel Verstandig , 41 , proprietor of a food store in the 2100 block Aiken Street , told police two Negroes assaulted him in his store and stole $150 from the cash register after choking and beating him .
A baby was burned to death and two other children were seriously injured last night in a fire which damaged their one-room Anne Arundel county home .
The victim Darnell Somerville , Negro , 1 , was pronounced dead on arrival at Anne Arundel General Hospital in Annapolis .
His sister and brother , Marie Louise , 3 , and John Raymond , Jr. 22 months , were admitted to the hospital .
The girl was in critical condition with burns over 90 per cent of her body .
Boy in fair condition
The boy received second-degree burns of the face , neck and back .
His condition was reported to be fair .
Police said the children's mother , Mrs. Eleanor Somerville , was visiting next door when the fire occurred .
The house is on Old Annapolis road a mile south of Severna Park , at Jones Station , police said .
Annapolis , Jan. 7
-- The Anne Arundel county school superintendent has asked that the Board of Education return to the practice of recording its proceedings mechanically so that there will be no more question about who said what .
The proposal was made by Dr. David S. Jenkins after he and Mrs. D. Ellwood Williams , Jr. , a board member and long-time critic of the superintendent , argued for about fifteen minutes at this week's meeting .
The disagreement was over what Dr. Jenkins had said at a previous session and how his remarks appeared in the minutes presented at the following meeting .
Cites discrepancies
Mrs. Williams had a list which she said contained about nine or ten discrepancies between her memory of Dr. Jenkins's conversation and how they were written up for the board's approval .
`` I hate to have these things come up again and again '' , Dr. Jenkins commented as he made his suggestion .
`` These are the board's minutes .
I'll write what you tell me to '' .
For a number of years the board used a machine to keep a permanent record but abandoned the practice about two years ago .
It was about that time , a board member said later , that Dr. Thomas G. Pullen , Jr. , State superintendent of schools , told Dr. Jenkins and a number of other education officials that he would not talk to them with a recording machine sitting in front of him .
The Board of County Commissioners , the Sanitary Commission , the Planning and Zoning Board and other county official bodies use recording machines for all public business in order to prevent law suits and other misunderstandings about what actually happened at their meetings .
Dr. Jenkins notes , however , that most of the school boards in the State do not do so .
State Senator Joseph A. Bertorelli ( D. , First Baltimore ) had a stroke yesterday while in his automobile in the 200 block of West Pratt Street .
He was taken to University Hospital in a municipal ambulance .
Doctors at the hospital said he was partially paralyzed on the right side .
His condition was said to be , `` fair '' .
Police said he became ill while parked in front of a barber shop at 229 West Pratt Street .
Barber summoned
He called Vincent L. Piraro , proprietor of the shop , who summoned police and an ambulance .
The vice president of the City Council complained yesterday that there are `` deficiencies '' in the city's snow clearing program which should be corrected as soon as possible .
Councilman William D. Schaefer ( D. , Fifth ) said in a letter to Mayor Grady that plowing and salting crews should be dispatched earlier in storms and should be kept on the job longer than they were last month .
Werner criticized
Conceding that several cities to the north were in worse shape than Baltimore after the last storm , Mr. Schaefer listed several improvements he said should be made in the snow plan here .
He said the snow plan was put in effect too slowly in December .
Equipment should be in operation `` almost immediately after the first snowfall '' , Mr. Schaefer said .
The Councilman , who is the Administration floor leader , also criticized Bernard L. Werner , public works director , for `` halting snow operations '' on Tuesday night after the Sunday storm .
Sent home for rest
Mr. Werner said yesterday that operations continued through the week .
What he did , Mr. Werner said , was let manual laborers go home Tuesday night for some rest .
Work resumed Wednesday , he said .
Mr. Schaefer also recommended that the snow emergency route plan , under which parking is banned on key streets and cars are required to use snow tires or chains on them , should be `` strictly enforced '' .
Admitting that main streets and the central business district should have priority , the Councilman said it is also essential that small shopping areas `` not be overlooked if our small merchants are to survive '' .
Recounting personal observations of clearance work , the Councilman cited instances of inefficient use of equipment or supplies by poorly trained workers and urged that plow blades be set so they do not leave behind a thin layer of snow which eventually freezes .
Annapolis , Jan. 7 ( special )
-- The 15-year-old adopted son of a Washington attorney and his wife , who were murdered early today in their Chesapeake Bay-front home , has been sent to Spring Grove State Hospital for detention .
The victims were H. Malone Dresbach , 47 , and his wife , Shirley , 46 .
Each had been shot in the back several times with a
automatic rifle , according to Capt. Elmer Hagner , chief of Anne Arundel detectives .
Judge Benjamin Michaelson signed the order remanding the boy to the hospital because of the lack of juvenile accommodations at the Anne Arundel County Jail .
The Circuit Court jurist said the boy will have a hearing in Juvenile Court .
Younger son calls police
Soon after 10 A.M. , when police reached the 1-1/2-story brick home in the Franklin Manor section , 15 miles south of here on the bay , in response to a call from the Dresbach's other son , Lee , 14 , they found Mrs. Dresbach's body on the first-floor bedroom floor .
Her husband was lying on the kitchen floor , police said .
The younger son told police his brother had run from the house after the shootings and had driven away in their mother's car .
The description of the car was immediately broadcast throughout Southern Maryland on police radio .
Two brothers adopted
Police said the boys are natural brothers and were adopted as small children by the Dresbachs .
Trooper J. A. Grzesiak spotted the wanted car , with three boys , at a Route 2 service station , just outside Annapolis .
The driver admitted he was the Dresbachs' son and all three were taken to the Edgewater Station , police said .
Annapolis , Jan. 7
-- Governor Tawes today appointed Lloyd L. Simpkins , his administrative assistant , as Maryland's Secretary of State .
Mr. Simpkins will move into the post being vacated by Thomas B. Finan , earlier named Attorney General to succeed C. Ferdinand Sybert , who will be elevated to an associate judgeship on the Maryland Court of Appeals .
Governor Tawes announced that a triple swearing-in ceremony will be held in his office next Friday .
Simpkins from Somerset
Mr. Simpkins is a resident of Somerset county , and he and the Governor , also a Somerset countian , have been friends since Mr. Simpkins was a child .
Now 38 , Mr. Simpkins was graduated from the University of Maryland's College of Agriculture in 1947 .
Five years later , he was awarded the university's degree in law .
Mr. Simpkins made a name for himself as a member of the House of Delegates from 1951 through 1958 .
From the outset of his first term , he established himself as one of the guiding spirits of the House of Delegates .
Maryland contracts for future construction during October totaled $77,389,000 , up to 10 per cent compared to October , 1960 , F. W. Dodge , Dodge Corporation , reported .
Dodge reported the following breakdown :
Nonresidential at $20,447,000 , down 28 per cent ; ;
residential at $47,101,000 , up 100 per cent ; ;
and heavy engineering at $9,841,000 , down 45 per cent .
The cumulative total of construction contracts for the first ten months of 1961 amounted to $634,517,000 , a 4 per cent increase compared to the corresponding period of last year .
A breakdown of the ten-month total showed :
Nonresidential at $253,355,000 , up 22 per cent ; ;
residential at $278,877,000 , up 12 per cent ; ;
and heavy engineering at $102,285,000 , down 33 per cent .
Residential building consists of houses , apartments , hotels , dormitories and other buildings designed for shelter .
The share of the new housing market enjoyed by apartments , which began about six years ago , has more than tripled within that span of time .
In 1961 , it is estimated that multiple unit dwellings will account for nearly 30 per cent of the starts in residential construction .
