Quint couldn't blame Maggie for disbelieving .
For eleven days they'd done the same thing , leaving the cottage quietly before breakfast , before Esperanza Beach got jammed with tourists and beach balls and show-offy lifeguards .
The swirling sand made Quint's limp more pronounced .
They walked slowly past the sherbet-colored cottages -- eleven lemon , nine mint , seven orange -- around the curve to a deserted stand with an `` Eats '' sign jiggling in the wind .
Now they were in friendly territory .
Nobody around .
Nothing but sand and a ridge of rocks sloping jaggedly to the water's edge .
His rock was to the right of a V-shaped inlet , a big , brown , lumpy rock trailing seaweed whiskers .
His rock was special because no one on the beach could see him here .
Here he was enclosed and safe .
( If a dragon or a sea monster came along , didn't he have a red Swiss hunting knife on his belt -- ten blades and a corkscrew ? ?
)
Here was a perfect place to lie down and make believe .
He was Canute controlling the waves .
He was a knight of the Round Table , `` Sir Quintus the Brave '' , slaying evil spirits and banshees and vampires and witches with warty noses .
( One good thing about a suit of armor , his leg wouldn't show .
) He was the first astronaut on the moon , chosen because of his small size and intrepid nature .
He was six feet one like his father , with big hands and a hairy chest , a man the weak and persecuted would turn to .
Fearless .
Every night when he wanted a drink of water , didn't he practice being fearless by not turning on the bathroom light ? ?
A dark bathroom can be pretty scary , and he'd creep back to bed , proud of himself , thinking : Tomorrow , for sure , I'll go down to the rock and keep my promise to Dad .
He hadn't intended to make the promise .
It happened two weeks ago , the night before his father left on a business trip to South America .
Every piece of the nightmare was clear , in place ; ;
and when he woke up , his father was saying , `` Stop screaming , Quint .
It's all right .
Stop shaking '' .
He could remember the feel of his father's big hands , the thump of his father's heart sending out signals -- regular , like radar .
`` Let's talk about the beach .
Son .
While I'm gone you get brown and fat as a pig , hear ? ?
Look , I can put two fingers between the cords in the back of your neck .
Dr. Fortman says swimming would help your leg .
He says you're limping more than you need to '' .
`` How does he know ? ?
Big dumb nut .
He never had polio '' .
In the light from the bedside table his father looked so worried that the promise spilled out .
`` You just wait , Dad .
When you get back I'll probly be swimming better than Victoria .
Wait and see , Dad '' .
Victoria was fourteen months younger than Quint , a head taller , and could lick any boy or girl on the beach .
He called her `` Fatso '' .
She called him `` Stuck-up -- that's why nobody plays with you , Mister Stuck-up '' .
Or , what was worse , she prayed for him out loud at bedtime : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised '' .
`` She's got a nerve '' .
Quint said now to the clouds .
Strength began to zip up and down his chest .
He felt strong as a giant .
He unlaced his high brown shoes and took off the metal brace on his leg .
He wadded his sweat shirt into a ball and stripped down to his swimming trunks .
`` Goolick , goooolick '' , creaked a sea gull .
`` Aw , shut up '' , he said .
He stood on the rock , a skinny , dignified boy surrounded by the ocean .
The wind bored a hole between his shoulder blades , and when he looked at the choppy waves coming and going and crossing each other he could see his head down there , bleeding , wedged between the rocks and the waves .
I can't go in .
I'm scared of the nightmare .
Shivering , he put on his clothes .
And shivering with shame , he crawled to the narrow end of the rock and spat into the water .
`` Watch it , big shot '' , a hoarse voice yelled back .
She was holding on to his rock with one hand .
She smelled of peppermints .
She wore a bathing suit like his mother's , no straps on the shouders .
`` Why didn't you duck '' ? ?
He snapped .
`` This is my rock '' .
`` Isn't '' .
`` Is '' .
`` Isn't '' .
`` Is '' .
She was sore as a boil .
`` Ever hear of squatter's rights '' ? ?
`` Sure .
They started with the Kansas-Nebraska Bill of eighteen '' --
`` Mister Big Britches , aren't you '' ? ?
`` I'm Mark Gordon Peters the Fifth .
They call me Quint '' .
`` Then why don't you stop squinting '' ? ?
`` I said Quint .
That's short for Quintus .
Quintus in Latin means '' --
`` I can speak both kinds of Latin , smart aleck '' .
Her cough sounded like cloth ripping .
`` You shouldn't smoke so much '' , he said , unconsciously imitating Victoria's holier-than-thou voice .
`` I don't smoke '' .
She was horrified .
`` Do you '' ? ?
`` Hell , yes '' .
Not having said `` hell '' before , he stumbled a bit before gathering momentum .
`` Sometimes eleven , fourteen a day '' .
`` If I was your mama , I'd wop your tail off '' .
`` My mother never wops me .
I've got this leg brace '' .
She seemed so unimpressed that he was obliged to roll up his blue jeans so she could see his brace .
`` Dingy-looking '' , was what she said .
`` Why don't you paint it red and white like a barber pole '' ? ?
`` Because maybe I won't have to wear it always .
Dr. Fortman says if I exercise my leg more , maybe I can use a cane when I'm big '' .
She spouted a mouthful of water into the air .
`` A cane's mighty handy .
Someone's walking past , you want to stop him , zoooop , snag him around the neck with the crook in your cane .
Or say a waiter brings you a bowl of soup with a dead fly in it -- all you got to do is bannnnnng , stooooomp your cane on the floor .
Hey , will you look at that '' ? ?
Maggie had shaken himself awake and was licking the sand off his stubby whiskers and his long plume of a tail .
`` That's some dog .
What kind '' ? ?
`` Part collie , part wire-haired terrier '' .
Quint glared .
He always did when people asked .
`` Holy mackerel , that's the most unique dog I ever saw '' , she said firmly .
`` His real name's DiMaggio , only we call him Maggie because he has to take tranquilizers .
He's braver than he looks .
He's been sick lately .
Last Tuesday he went on a ham jag '' .
`` A what '' ? ?
He would have told her , but Victoria was yodeling .
That meant `` Mama wants you Quint .
Come home or I'll come find you '' .
`` I gotta go .
Even though this is my rock , you can use it sometimes .
I come early in the morning '' .
`` So do I .
See you around , Mister Squint '' .
That was how they started being friends .
They met next morning and all the mornings thereafter .
Same time , early , before the fog burned off , because she didn't like the sun ; ;
it made her blister .
Her name was Sabella , and the strip of seaweed around her neck was an emerald necklace the King gave her as a token of his undying love .
`` You going to marry the King '' ? ?
`` No .
He's got a long beard and picks his teeth with a fork .
My hair is what he's nuts about .
Naturally curly hair runs in my family .
Personally , I prefer straight hair like yours , but as they say on the Continent , ' What can one do ' '' ? ?
`` Which continent '' ? ?
`` Name one , I been there '' .
Japan , she said , smelled pugh because people let dead fish lie on the beaches till the fish got hard as rocks ; ;
then they scraped off the mold and made fish soup .
Pugh .
Camels in Tripoli had harelips .
Near Galway the tinkers drove their caravans down to the beach and sang and drank and fought all night .
As for dancing -- holy mackerel , he ought to see the gypsies in Jerez ; ;
they danced on the sand till your blood got hot and danced with them .
`` Really '' .
Quint smothered a yawn .
She made better pictures than any book he'd read , but he didn't say so .
Artfully , as the days went by , he found occasion to tell her that his father had won the Navy Cross in the Korean War ; ;
that his baby sister could spit up through her nose when she felt like it ; ;
that he personally had an IQ of 141 and was currently reading the Mushr to Ozon volume of the encyclopedia .
`` Books are for schnooks '' .
She skipped a piece of water at him and laughed , a funny , hoarse laugh he liked to hear .
Nobody ever appreciated his jokes as much as Sabella .
( `` What did one tonsil say to the other tonsil ? ?
Let's get dressed up -- the doctor's taking us out tonight '' .
And `` What time did the Chinaman go to the dentist ? ?
Tooth-hurty '' .
) Encouraged by her giggles he imitated Maggie who was crazy about ham .
He described the ham decorated with pineapple and cherries , cooling on the porch .
He snuck up on the ham like Maggie , gumming it with soft , stumpy teeth , then panting with thirst , lapping up the water in the lagoon , swelling up like a balloon , staggering home to be sick , while his mother said , `` That does it .
That dog has to go '' .
`` Say , you're quite a comic '' , Sabella said admiringly .
`` Ever thought about going on the stage '' ? ?
He hadn't .
But it was such a nice thought that he nodded his head .
`` Either that or a veterinarian '' .
`` Better make up your mind , son '' , Sabella said .
`` You can't serve cod and salmon '' .
Sometimes they argued .
She said sharks have no bones and shrimp swam backward .
His encylopedia agreed with Sabella .
Next morning he tied a bunch of sea daisies with string and threw them across the V-shaped inlet to the rock where she was swimming around .
Boy , could she catch ! !
Like Willie Mays in the outfield .
`` Nobody gave me flowers before .
Thank you , Quint '' .
Her face turned pink with pleasure and a smothered cough .
`` You can always tell a real gentleman -- they got a certain je ne say quok '' .
Sometimes they didn't talk at all .
He daydreamed on the rock while she swam and splashed around .
Once when she asked why he never went swimming and he answered , `` Don't feel like it '' , he was tempted to tell her about being scared .
But Victoria began yodeling just then and he went home , carrying Sabella in the back of his head , not thinking about her , just knowing she was there , smiling , smelling of peppermints .
As for his promise -- oh , he had plenty of time , buckets of time .
Wednesday morning it happened .
They were eating breakfast .
`` We beseech thee , Lord Gord , to bless this food '' -- that was Victoria saying grace while the baby sprayed raisin toast on her plastic bib .
Same old breakfast till the phone rang , making his mother's voice shake with excitement .
`` Your Daddy's in San Francisco '' , she told them .
`` He says he'll be here on the one-o'clock plane .
Fifteen days early -- isn't that wonderful '' ? ?
`` Yeah , keen '' .
A cave seemed to be opening in Quint's stomach .
`` Children , we'll have to get organized .
The baby can have an early nap .
Victoria , I want you to -- ''
Quint closed the screen door quietly so Maggie wouldn't be scared .
`` Hurry up , we're late '' , he said , noticing with a chill how gray the sky was this morning , the fog like a rope along the horizon , the choppy waves sending off sheets of blue and Kool-Aid green .
The cave in his stomach hurt .
He had to go into the water .
He'd tell Sabella about the nightmare .
It had started two years ago when he was in an iron lung .
What caused it , he didn't know .
The metal collar gagging his neck ? ?
Sweating so much ? ?
The unbearable weight on his chest ? ?
All of it together meant drowning .
The first time the nurse took him out of the lung , she said if he got frightened , she'd put him back for a second .
When Bobbie Evans smashed up his car , the Jaguar his wife Linda had given him for his last birthday , and himself quite thoroughly with it , driving back from an afternoon's golf at Oakmont , it seemed to mark the end of a long , miswritten chapter in the social life of the community .
Linda looked remote yet lovely in black , and everyone held his or her breath .
Not that Linda was heartless , not that she would do anything prematurely or in bad taste any more than John Cooper would .
Hadn't Linda been a perfect wife to Bobbie , who was the least bit of a disappointment all these years ? ?
Wasn't John Cooper even more attractive at forty-seven than he had been twenty-five years earlier ? ?
And wasn't John's wife , Edythe , even more appalling , if possible ? ?
Didn't John Cooper , after all this time , deserve something better of life ? ?
Wasn't it adult and realistic to look at it that way ? ?
And romantic ? ?
Everybody knew that John Cooper had married Edythe on the rebound .
It was the kind of thing that could ruin a man's life , and it was a tribute to John's strength of character and very real business ability that it hadn't ruined his .
`` Of course , there was nothing you could do , but you still ought to be ashamed of yourself for letting it happen '' , Mousie Chandler said to Linda Stuart .
`` Poor John '' ! !
Linda accepted the reproach , which was something she did rarely in all her life and most rarely in that summer of 1936 when she was by all odds the prettiest and brightest young woman west of the Allegheny Mountains , and John was surely one of the handsomer and brighter young men around Pittsburgh .
For it had been John and Linda ever since she had come out two seasons before at the Golf Club to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs .
John had claimed her from the stag line , a young man a year out of Dartmouth with skiing crinkles still around his eyes .
You saw them always together those years .
You talked about John-and-Linda as an entity .
John-and-Linda were at Longue Vue last night ; ;
John-and-Linda drove to Conneaut in three and a half hours .
Then there was a spat over something , as there had been lovers' spats before ; ;
only this one didn't heal .
You still said `` John-and-Linda '' , but as if you were speaking of a national catastrophe such as the depression or Dillinger .
It got worse instead of better .
First , it came out after Mr. Cooper's will was settled -- he had died the year before -- that John and his mother weren't rich any more .
And then there was Linda's engagement to Bobbie Evans .
There was no connection between the two events , because Bobbie wasn't rich , either , though he was more aggressive than John .
He was a bright and handsome young man from New York , who worked for the same steel company as John did .
Some people said Linda had just announced the engagement to jolt John into some action , but when John came home from a business trip to Cleveland with Edythe , with Edythe his bride , it could no longer be John-and-Linda even to sentimental wishful thinkers .
It wasn't even John and Edythe .
It was simply Poor John .
There was nothing specifically wrong with Edythe , but there was absolutely nothing right about her either .
Mousie Chandler had been to school with her someplace near Baltimore and tried to explain rather than defend her to the gang having lunch at Horne's .
`` Well , you shouldn't underestimate Edythe '' , Mousie said .
`` I know she gives the impression of being shallow and frivolous and scatterbrained .
She is frivolous and scatterbrained , but she really isn't shallow '' .
Bobbie and Linda looked magnificent at their wedding .
John was at the church with Edythe .
She giggled during the ceremony , and Mousie Chandler , who was one of Linda's bridesmaids , said John glared black as death at her .
`` As if he were choking '' , she said .
`` Poor John '' ! !
Edythe settled down to become a social myth and a horrible example .
Her hair never seemed to be in place and her skirts were never quite the correct length .
She didn't have a bad shape when you caught her at the pool at Longue Vue , but her bathing suits were far from smart .
And you didn't see her much at Longue Vue or anywhere , for John had drifted away from the gang .
Mousie said it was because he was too proud to stand pity .
Others thought he couldn't stand seeing Linda , Mrs. Bobbie Evans , still so beautiful , so much in command of everything .
There were less-dramatic reasons too .
John's mother died not long after his marriage , and there was even less Cooper money left .
John sold the big old place in Sewickley and bought a smaller house in Fox Chapel .
He was not reduced to poverty , but his job at the steel company had become a real job and not a method of passing the day .
John was good at his job .
It probably wasn't hard for him to keep his nose to the grindstone with nothing but Edythe to come home to .
Though that may be unfair since Ben Cooper , John's first son , came along early in 1938 , the cutest baby you ever saw and a blessing that he looked all Cooper from fontanel to pink toes , nary a trace of Edythe .
But the continuing charm of the other children -- Sally in 1940 and Jack in 1944 -- and all John's success at his work only made Edythe's dizziness and general uselessness more glaring .
She never could fit into a crowd which had known , which still knew and admired Linda .
When there was bridge at Edythe's house , the cards shuffled like wet graham crackers and the food probably was wet graham crackers .
She managed a missionary drive for the church once and got the books so confused that old Mr. Webber , the eldest elder , who'd never donated more than five dollars to anything , had to cough up five hundred dollars to avoid a scandal in what Edythe called `` the bosoms of the church '' .
John did find the missing checks and money afterward , and the drive was actually oversubscribed , which was a real bit of luck for the missionaries .
Being an intelligent man , John must have guessed what everyone thought about Edythe , but he never let on by so much as a brave smile .
Poor John was the kind of stock that keeps a bargain without whimpering and maybe bends over backward to keep a bad one .
He was an attentive and generous husband , overgenerous , a lot of people felt , because they knew that money must be a problem to him .
But he got ahead in business : on leave from his job to an important Washington assignment during the war ; ;
after the war back to the heir apparency of the steel company .
The Coopers saw Bobbie and Linda socially , but no more than was necessary .
Bobbie had been successful , too , though he didn't match John's pace , and after all he didn't need to , with all the Stuart money .
He and Linda settled down to being social leaders , and Linda managed to look a little more beautiful each year .
And then came the hairpin turn , the smashed Jaguar and Linda , mourning alone and lovely .
Everyone held his or her breath .
`` Don't think Linda couldn't have got John back any time , if she'd tried '' , Mousie Gordon , who had been Mousie Chandler , said between bites of a chicken sandwich at a luncheon table at Le Mont .
`` Now you know she could've , but she isn't that kind of girl .
But now -- well , it would be a blessing , I think .
Poor John '' .
Linda Evans felt more wretched than she had ever dreamed Bobbie's death could move her to feeling .
What she felt was a bone-deep loss with a sense of waste to it , not so much sorrow for handsome , ambitious Bobbie , but for the lost years that had been brought into high relief by his death .
She knew what people were thinking ; ;
it was what she had been thinking herself .
It was up to her to save Poor John , dear John , to undo the wrong she had done , but she trembled at the decision as at the brink of a cold stream .
There was no one who would blame her or John ; ;
she could be sure of that .
It might be rough on Edythe at first , but Linda and John between them could make a settlement handsome enough to soothe her , to send her back to Cleveland or anywhere .
And Linda felt capable of capturing the affection of the children , anxious even , since she and Bobbie had had none of their own .
It would be good for them to have a mother they need not be ashamed of .
Linda would have to wait , she knew .
But what was a decent six months or so after the more than twenty years gone by ? ?
Years of watching while Poor John struggled without the help and understanding of the kind of wife a man needed to get ahead .
Of course , he had done wonders .
Alloy steels and regular steels had different sales departments at Smith & MacIsaacs , where John and Bobbie both worked .
Bobbie had been head of the alloy division , while John was just another good salesman in the regular branch .
So when old Mr. Lovejoy , the company president , talked about putting in a single sales manager for both branches after the head of the regular steels had gone with Carnegie-Illinois , it looked like the perfect chance for Bobbie .
For Linda knew how to help her husband , not just the Stuart-family contacts but also the little dinners for Reuben Lovejoy .
She was almost sick when Bobbie came home with the news that Poor John had won the job .
`` What did you do '' ? ?
She asked Bobbie .
`` You must have done something , something wrong .
Lord knows I had everything set for you '' .
Bobbie said something about damned Pittsburghers sticking together , and Linda got angry at him .
They had their first real fight , and Bobbie went off to get drunk .
Linda dragooned her uncle , Donald Murkland , into a lunch the next day to find out what had happened .
He was a director of S. & M. and must have been in on the decision .
But jolly old Uncle Donald would tell her no more than that Bobbie had certainly been considered for the job , but there were factors in a large company which outsiders and even some insiders couldn't understand .
He didn't tell her of the long board meeting where Bobbie and John were weighed one against the other .
`` I'm behind John Cooper '' , Mr. Lovejoy said finally .
`` I think we're agreed that he and Evans are equal in ability , so we have to look at the thing in terms of incentive .
`` Now , I believe Poor John'll work just a little harder .
With that wife of his , I think he feels every chance he gets is his big chance .
Bobbie , with Linda behind him , will have plenty of other opportunities .
And also , the money can't mean as much to Bobbie .
`` Bobbie will take the job as his just reward and work hard at it ; ;
Poor John will take it as a miracle and have every other independent steel company sitting up nights worrying about us '' .
Most of the directors nodded .
Uncle Donald Murkland found himself nodding agreement too .
After the surprise was over , Linda was almost as pleased as anyone with John's good luck , though she agreed with Bobbie's decision some months later to move to Funk Furnaces .
The job at Funk wasn't particularly better , but it got him away from being subordinate to John and assured him steady advancement , since Funk was owned to a large degree by various branches of Linda's family .
Poor John's rise continued to be meteoric .
When he was made a vice president only a year after the new sales job , a leading business magazine ran his photograph with a brief biography in a series on national business leaders of the future .
She called then to say she had a baby-sitter for that night .
`` Shirley appreciated the chance to make some money .
Such a nice little thing -- lives right in the building '' .
`` That's swell '' , I said sweetly .
I could get along without that three dollars .
In some ways it was worth being out the money -- just knowing I was no longer obligated to Nadine ! !
It was past midnight and we were in bed when the phone rang .
I stumbled through the hall , wondering who would be calling at this hour .
I answered to find Nadine at the other end .
`` You scared me half to death '' , I said shakily .
`` What's wrong '' ? ?
`` Janice , nobody answers at the apartment '' ! !
Her voice came shrill .
`` I'm absolutely frantic ! !
That stupid girl might have gone off and left Francie '' ! !
`` Oh , she wouldn't do that '' , I said .
`` She's probably fallen asleep and doesn't hear the phone .
But if you're worried you can go home and check '' --
`` I can't leave the party ! !
We're at Ken Thom's apartment , and when one couple leaves early everything falls flat ! !
Old Mr. Thom is already down on Wally , and we simply can't afford to get Ken mad at us '' --
I was all set for what came next .
`` Janice , could you possibly go over and make sure everything's all right ? ?
I'll call you there in ten minutes '' --
`` I can't make it in ten minutes '' -- Wondering , as I said it , why I should make it at all .
Why should I go over at midnight to check on Francie , when her parents didn't care enough to leave a party ? ?
`` Fifteen minutes , then ! !
Please , Janice .
I'll be glad to pay you '' --
So sure that money could do anything ! !
`` All right '' , I said .
I'd do it .
Not for the dollar or so Nadine would give me .
But because there was the chance that something had gone wrong at the apartment , and if I didn't go over , who would ? ?
Chris was sound asleep , and I didn't see any sense in waking him .
I dressed in the kitchen , then left a note on the table telling him what had happened .
I drove off through the cool darkness to Nadine's apartment and rang the bell , and in a few seconds a young girl opened the door .
Her face was flushed from sleep .
`` It's all right '' , I said , as she started to look scared .
`` Mrs. Roberts had called , and couldn't wake you .
I just came over to make sure everything was all right '' .
`` I'm -- hard to wake up '' , she faltered .
She didn't look over thirteen .
And Nadine insisted that her sitters be reliable ! !
`` I have to get up early for church tomorrow '' , she went on .
`` I didn't know it was going to be this late '' ! !
The phone started ringing .
`` That's Mrs. Roberts again '' , I said .
`` I'll answer it '' .
I crossed the beautifully furnished living room to the pale yellow phone .
I told Nadine everything was fine , and that I'd be getting on home .
`` Janice , would you mind staying '' ? ?
There was a ragged edge to her voice now , as if she'd been crying .
`` Wally's drunk -- I'll get him out of here as soon as I possibly can , but I don't want Shirley to see him like this .
You know how gossip of that sort spreads through an apartment building '' --
Not a word of thanks for what I'd already done .
The receiver clicked in my ear .
She didn't even give me a chance to refuse .
Well , there wasn't any law that said I had to stay ! !
But then I looked at Shirley and thought that I might as well -- the child needed her sleep , and Heaven knew what kind of a mess it would be , with Wally coming home drunk .
So I told her Mrs. Roberts would pay her in the morning , and she scooted off to her own apartment .
After I looked in at Francie , I went into the living room and waited .
I must have dozed off , because I came to with a start at the sound of voices .
Nadine's , shrill with anger -- Wally's loud and thick -- As I went to the door I heard the clock strike two .
I opened the door , and Wally stumbled in -- fast -- as if Nadine had pushed him .
I had always thought she was so beautiful .
But now she looked ugly .
Her skin was stretched so tight that her cheekbones stuck out , and if looks could kill , Wally would have been dead .
`` Pack your clothes '' , she hissed .
`` Pack -- and get out '' ! !
`` You're crazy '' , Wally said thickly .
He lurched and stumbled to the davenport and sank down on it , and was instantly asleep .
Nadine strode over to him , and her pointed nails raked across his face .
I grabbed her arm and she turned on me and for a scared second I thought that maybe Wally was right , and she was crazy .
`` You stay out of this '' , she spat at me .
`` He's ruined us -- do you hear me -- he's ruined us ! !
He insulted Ken Thom '' ! !
Her eyes were wild .
`` He told Ken to his face that he doesn't have what it takes to get a woman ! !
And the other people there were listening ! !
We're ruined and he's going to get out if I have to throw him down the stairs '' --
`` you'd better simmer down '' , I said nervously .
I was plenty scared .
In the state she was in , she could actually kill him ! !
`` Now you just take it easy , and I'll make you some tea '' --
`` Tea , '' Nadine screeched .
`` How can you be so damn stupid ? ?
Wally's lost his job ! !
Ken will never forgive him -- never ! !
And we don't have any money -- we don't have a dime ! !
All we own is Francie's bedroom set and the televison-record player and we even owe on them .
And we'll be poor and have to live in a grubby little house like yours -- and all because of that '' --
I clamped my hand over her mouth to stop the stream of filth .
`` Stop that ! !
You'll wake up the whole building .
Wally can't go any place at this hour '' --
`` Well then , I'll get out '' -- But she looked uncertain .
She was coming to her senses enough to realize that you don't go traipsing off anywhere at two in the morning .
`` You go to bed '' , I said curtly .
`` In the morning you and Wally can talk things out '' --
She collapsed against me , as if everything inside her snapped .
I got her into bed , and sat with her until she had sobbed herself out .
It was three o'clock before I figured it was all right to go .
I left her , a limp bundle of self-pity , shivering with terror because her bubble had burst around her .
Wally was snoring on the davenport .
I had done all I could .
I had done all I was going to do .
Whether or not Wally lost his job was no concern of mine .
I drove home , found Chris still asleep .
I snuggled up close to him -- loving him -- thankful for a man like him .
Thankful I wasn't Nadine .
I kept on being thankful .
In the afternoon Nadine and Wally came over with Francie .
Wally sat in our big chair , his hands between his knees , looking ready to cry .
`` I'd had all this trouble with the old man , that's why I drank so much .
I -- got fired yesterday for not attending to business '' --
Old Mr. Thom himself had stopped at the service station for a grease job , Wally confessed , and couldn't get one because there were cars on the pits waiting to be repaired .
Seems that the kid Wally had hired had a repair business of his own going on the side .
Mr. Thom had gotten Wally on the phone , and fired him .
`` I thought I'd smooth things over through Ken '' , Wally said miserably .
`` But Ken got coy and wouldn't make any promises .
And I was plastered and I blew my stack '' --
`` And told him right to his face he'd never slept with a woman '' ! !
I tried to quiet Nadine because the children were there .
But she was beyond caring what she said .
`` Things may smooth over yet '' , Chris said , his nice lean face grave with honest concern .
But I couldn't help thinking that Nadine and Wally were getting just what they deserved .
Now maybe they'd realize that life can be tough .
When A bubble breaks , there's nothing .
Little by little , during the week , Chris and I discovered the crazy unbelievable way Nadine and Wally had lived .
They had not only spent every cent -- they were in debt up to their necks , owing on everything they owned .
On top of everything else they were two months behind on their apartment rent , and the day Wally received written notice that he was fired , they were evicted .
Worst of all , Wally had no training for any kind of work .
He had fallen into a soft job , and now the job was gone and he was stranded .
Chris fretted .
`` I wish we were in a position to offer a little money to tide them over '' .
I said I wished we were , too .
It was easy enough to say it , because of course we couldn't spare a cent .
But Chris brightened up like a candle .
`` I'm glad you feel that way , honey .
There is one big way we can help them .
We can let them move in with us '' --
Something I had simply never thought of .
Something so incredible --
I just stared at him .
It was incredible -- He gave me an embarrassed , pleading look .
`` I know we'd be pretty crowded .
But it would only be for a couple of weeks -- until they get straightened out '' .
Straightened out -- They'd had years of making all that money ! !
`` I won't do it '' , I said flatly .
`` Nadine was always too good to live in a little house like this ! !
Well , now she can sleep in the street for all I care '' ! !
`` That isn't like you , Janice '' , Chris said uncomfortably .
Then I felt uncomfortable , too .
I didn't want to be like that , mean and bitter .
But , darn it all , why should we help a couple of spoiled snobs who had looked down their noses at us ? ?
But , in the end , we did .
It just seemed as if there was nothing else to do .
The finance company took all their furniture -- and they didn't have a cent to their name .
Then Wally got sick .
To my way of thinking , he was scared sick .
His luck had failed him , and it was easier to crawl off into bed than to get out and fight the world .
Chris made trip after trip in our old car , moving the clothes and dishes and the stock of groceries Nadine had bought on special .
At least we'll eat , I thought grimly as I put all the food away .
While I worked , Nadine sat and cried .
When she wasn't crying , she was in our bedroom fighting with Wally .
`` Virus infection nothing '' , she'd scream at him .
`` You're too lazy to go out and look for another job .
You're just a no-good bum '' ! !
It was a mess , all right .
But it couldn't go on forever -- A couple of weeks , Chris had said .
I figured I could stand practically anything for a couple of weeks .
But the two weeks dragged into three , and they were still with us .
Nadine's constant nagging had finally gotten Wally out of bed .
He set out every morning looking for work , and come home around noon , full of alibis and excuses .
Wendell Thom had black-balled him .
Nobody would even take his application .
`` You can get something , '' Nadine would snap .
`` You can get a job working in a grocery store , if nothing else '' .
`` The high school kids have got everything sewed up '' , he said , a whine in his voice .
`` Those damn punks -- taking work away from men who need it '' .
`` By fall they'll be back in school '' , I'd say , trying to sound encouraging .
But this was only the middle of July .
And I couldn't take six more weeks of this .
I mentioned it to Chris one stifling hot night , when I had slipped outside for a breath of fresh air .
I don't really believe in intuition .
But I swear to you from the moment I opened my eyes , I knew it was going to be a bad day .
Part of it was the weather , so foggy it would take me twice as long to get to the hospital .
Part of it was being so tired -- I'd not only had my usual full day yesterday , but a dinner meeting as well , that kept me up late .
But the rest of it , the main part , wasn't based on logic at all .
It was just going to be one of those days .
For the thousandth time , I wished I'd chosen some nice , nine-to-five , five-days-a-week profession .
And for the thousandth time , I answered myself .
I hadn't chosen medicine -- it had chosen me .
Actually , I shouldn't complain , I told myself in the shaving mirror .
I had a lot to be thankful for .
A profession that brought me as good an income as mine wasn't to be sneezed at .
Maybe I didn't see as much of Gladdy as I'd like , but how much worse it would have been if I'd had to board her out somewhere after Alice went -- send my daughter to an orphanage or a boarding-home .
At least , we were together and we had Mrs. Hodges , bless her , to look after us -- no mother could be fonder of Gladdy than Mrs. Hodges was .
I was lucky in lots of ways , no doubt about it .
Especially in the way Gladdy had turned out .
Growing up without a mother from the time she was three -- it wasn't a good thing for a child , even knowing the kind of mother Alice had been .
But I mustn't start on Alice .
She is a closed book , a picture I keep on my bureau , but never look at .
If she'd kept on as she'd been going , the story I'd told Gladdy would probably have been true by now , anyhow
As usual , Gladdy's bright smile greeted me at the breakfast table .
Her first class wasn't until ten , but she always got up to have breakfast with me .
It made me feel good and knowing that she'd decided , all on her own , to go to college right here in town made me feel good , too .
Oh , I knew that I couldn't give myself all the credit for her decision .
I had a feeling that young Pete Michelson , the most promising intern at Fairview , had something to do with it , too .
She'd been out with Pete the night before and her gay chatter about their date lightened my mood a little .
But once I was alone again , driving to the hospital , the heaviness returned .
If she and Pete were really getting serious , I'd have to do some hard thinking .
Should I tell him the truth about Alice ? ?
Did he have a right to know the secret I'd kept from Gladdy all these years ? ?
The boys were already waiting in the corridor outside my office when I got to Fairview .
Two interns and Dick Ishii , the other resident .
I'm Chief of Medicine here and this morning would start like all others , with me taking the boys on the rounds .
Pete was down on Seven , Dick told me , and he'd meet us there .
There wasn't anything of special interest that morning , no one sicker than they should have been .
Pete came to meet us when we stepped out of the elevator on Seven -- he'd had a case of post-operative shock , but it was all taken care of now .
Seven is a women's floor and , as it happened , not very busy right then .
When we'd finished our regular rounds , Pete pointed me toward the small ward at the end of the floor .
`` Got a new one in last night '' , he said .
`` I haven't seen her yet , but I hear she's a lulu '' ! !
I wasn't surprised .
The ward was a small one , four beds , kept reserved for female alcoholics .
We didn't get many at Fairview and they were never pretty sights .
It was thought wiser to keep them segregated from the patients in the regular charity ward .
The moment I walked in , the whole miserable feeling of the day seemed to focus on the woman in the bed .
They'd cleaned her up some , of course , and she'd pretty much slept off her drunk .
But there was something about her -- and I felt my lips forming a name .
Alice But this woman's name was Rose Bancroft ! !
I looked at the chart for reassurance .
Yes , Rose Bancroft , diagnosis : acute alcoholism .
She looked about sixty , though I recalled that the chart gave her age as forty-four .
An ugly scar disfigured the somewhat familiar puffy face , already marred by the tell-tale network of broken red veins that heavy drinkers carry .
Her coarse hair was two-colored -- bleached blonde and its real , dirty gray .
Oh , could it be ? ?
No , no it was an unfortunate resemblance , that was all it was , and I turned to Dick , forcing myself to put my disquiet out of my mind .
In a low voice , Dick filled us in
she'd been picked up downtown , passed out in the doorway .
Although quiet when they brought her in , she'd suddenly turned violent and had to be knocked out .
It was the old story .
We'd keep her a day or two , and the AA people would talk to her .
But if she wasn't interested , she'd just go back to the same life she'd left .
Turning toward the patient again , I -- I can't describe what happened to me then , except to say that I felt sick .
I tell you , it took every ounce of control I had to be able to speak .
`` Now , Miss -- or is it Mrs. Bancroft '' ? ?
I never liked going straight into an examination with patients -- it relaxes them , I've always thought , to chat first .
This was one time I'd have gladly broken my own rule , but habit was too strong .
`` Hey '' ! !
Her voice was flat and dull .
But those penetrating eyes -- I had to turn my head away .
It was then that I saw what the drawn-back covers revealed .
There were bloodspots on the sheet .
`` What's this '' ? ?
I asked .
`` Your period '' ? ?
She shook her head .
`` I been spotting a little now and then '' , she said quietly , no emotion in her voice .
`` Have you spoken to a doctor about it '' ? ?
Once again , there was a negative shake .
I told Miss Groggins to move her down the hall where we had an examining table .
`` Better do a Papanicolaou '' , I told Pete .
It was only a few moments before Miss Groggins had her in the proper position for a vaginal , but I couldn't see anything wrong on gross examination .
Pete stood by with a slide and took the smear , sent it down to the lab with a request for the test .
That done , I told Miss Groggins to take her patient back to bed and again put her out of my mind .
I was busy the rest of the day .
Late in the afternoon , I was up on Seven again .
One of my private patients was being admitted and I went in to see her settled .
On my way to the elevator , I ran into Pete .
`` I've got the results on the Bancroft smear test '' , he said .
`` There's something there , all right .
Class Three , they said .
Do you want to talk to her , Doctor '' ? ?
`` Well '' -- I didn't -- I didn't ever want to see that woman again .
But that was ridiculous , of course .
`` All right .
We'll do a D. and C. and get her permission for a hysterectomy .
Maybe it's nothing , maybe it's intraepithelial or in situ -- can't take any chances '' .
`` If you can keep her here that long '' , Pete said wryly .
`` Groggins tells me she's started badgering already , wants to get out .
Wants to get to her booze , I guess '' .
I grimaced in distaste .
`` Well , better see what I can do '' .
We'd been standing right outside Miss Bancroft's door and as I went to turn the knob to enter , I was surprised to find that the door was slightly ajar .
But she seemed to be dozing and in any case , we'd been talking in low tones .
Her eyes opened as soon as she heard me , though , and once again , I felt an inward shiver .
`` I sure can't complain about the service in this place '' , she said .
`` I just got through seeing one of you guys .
What do you want '' ? ?
There was something almost insulting in her tone , but I disregarded it .
`` I've just been talking to Dr. Michelson '' , I said .
`` We'd like you to have a dilatation and curettage .
That's quite minor , nothing to worry about .
But we would like your permission to do -- that is , to go further if it proves necessary '' .
`` No '' .
It was flat , definite .
`` Suppose you let me explain .
Actually , I rather doubt that we'll have to do this .
Even if we do , you'll be out of here in a week , probably '' .
I was sure that was the difficulty -- she just didn't want to stay here , where she couldn't get to the liquor .
`` No '' .
I looked at her in amazement .
I'd had patients who'd refused surgery before , of course , but never one who didn't show , in one way or another , the reason why .
Mostly , it was fear , but this woman's voice didn't tremble and her hands were still on the coverlet .
`` Will you tell me why '' ? ?
I asked .
She smiled , a smile without humor .
`` You shouldn't tell your little secrets outside of the patient's door '' , she said .
`` I've got cancer , haven't I '' ? ?
She went on , disregarding my protests .
`` I'm not going to be one of your guinea pigs .
Let your pupils learn on someone else , Doctor .
Just let me die in peace '' .
I stared at her , almost speechless .
Her little speech was totally out of character with the sort of person I thought she was .
Even her voice had taken on a more cultivated tone .
This was someone who'd come down in the world , I thought .
A long , long way down .
Again there was something familiar about her , something --
`` You haven't got cancer '' , I said as strongly as I could .
`` I don't know what you heard that would make you think so , but I assure you I don't even know myself , so how can you be so sure ? ?
And even if '' --
`` Don't give me a lot of talk , Joe '' .
I gaped at her .
She could have found out my first name , of course -- that wouldn't be difficult .
But there was that something , some echo in the way she spoke .
She was watching me intently , a funny little half-smile on her lips .
`` Surprised , baby ? ?
Guess I've changed , haven't I ? ?
But you haven't changed much , Joe '' .
I knew then , knew with a heart-stopping shock .
`` Alice '' -- I stammered through dry lips .
`` Alice , for goodness sake '' --
`` Alice '' , she echoed mockingly .
`` What's the matter , Joe , you scared of me ? ?
Think I'm going to make you introduce a drunk as your wife ? ?
Well , don't worry .
Just let me outta here '' --
`` But why did you come back '' ? ?
I'd found my voice .
`` Where have you been all these years '' ? ?
She shrugged .
`` Here and there .
As for coming back here -- well , I'll tell you the truth , I didn't even know where I was when I came to .
The last thing I remember is a bar in San Diego '' --
The way she spoke , her flat acceptance of her alcoholic blackout , made me shudder .
And this was Gladdy's mother ! !
`` I never asked you for any favors , Joe '' , she went on , `` but I'm asking one now .
Let me outta here ! !
You doctors are all alike -- all you want is to cut up people and what's the good ? ?
No , I want out , Joe '' ! !
I looked at the pathetic wreck of a woman before me .
Let her out , let her out -- that would be the solution , wouldn't it ? ?
What she'd said was true -- in all these years , she'd never asked for anything from me .
If I let her go , she'd disappear once more .
And Gladdy would be safe ! !
I was slowly swimming down to the bottom of the sea .
She made me welcome .
Her dark cool caresses were sweeter than any woman's ; ;
the many little tricks she knew made her embrace the ultimate one -- the ever more fantastic pressures deeper in her body squeezed not me but the air I breathed into a nitrogen anesthetic .
yielding-Mediterranian-woman- , she soothed me , and drew me deeper into her .
I no longer knew how deep I was , somewhere under 230 feet , getting drunker , happier and more contented by the second .
The reasons for this dive seemed foolish now .
Only the dive itself had any meaning .
The metal-tasting nitrogen made me wonder if I should remove the mouthpiece and suck in the sweet water .
Perhaps if I took off the aqua-lung I could swim better , love my woman better .
I chuckled aloud , and the mouthpiece fell out .
While a hazy part of my mind concentrated on swimming down , a clear part sorted over recent events , among them my only positive act in a long time .
It was when I packed up what duds I had and went to Paris .
It was no vacation , just me getting out after a bellyfull .
I knew it wouldn't be the same .
Wild kicks never are , but I hoped to dig up a better frame of mind .
Once before I had been to Paris , long before I married Valery .
That first time was good and it stuck with me .
I was twenty-one back then , in the army , and fog put our plane down at Orly instead of Rhine-Main .
It was a Saturday evening in April with a mist-like rain , and I was a little high on the good taste of life .
I had a pocketful of money , which was unusual when I was in the army , and the plane would be grounded all night .
In less than an hour I had gotten a hotel , showered , shaved and was out on the Champs Elysees in a fresh uniform .
I felt like a Hun in Rome .
All the women were beautiful , and the men were equal to them ; ;
everything was glamorous to my dazzled eyes .
There were some sweet machines other than women : an old Bugatti , a lean Farina coachwork on an American chassis , a Swallow , a type A40-AjK Mercedes and lots more .
There was the Arc de Triomphe and the Tour d'Eiffel -- I was no yokel , but I was young , and this was Paris ! !
I had champagne at Maxim's , then went into a cafe called the Jour et Nuit to ask the way to Montmartre .
I never got there .
I met Claire , which was better .
She was eating bread and cheese just as fast as she possibly could , and washing it down with red wine .
I stared .
I didn't know a human could feed so fast and still be beautiful .
She was blonde , and young , and nice and round in a tight white dress .
Maybe her ravenous eating wasn't grotesque because she was so positive about it .
When she had drained the last of the bottle and paid her bill , she came directly to my table and said :
`` Handsome soldier , I have assuaged one hunger with food .
I feel another of terrible urgency .
Is your evening free '' ? ?
`` Madame '' , I said with noblesse oblige because of the `` handsome '' -- `` yeah '' .
And so off we went to her apartment .
She was a nymphomaniac , of course , the poor girl .
Toward the break of day I waxed philosophical , and drew analogies about her way of eating bread and cheese .
Now it was nine years later , and it wasn't spring but winter when I returned .
I got there on a Saturday evening .
I made the mistake of going to the Jour et Nuit .
The place was busy but I didn't feel like a Hun .
I sat waiting for Life to come along and sweep me up .
I had part of a bottle of French beer called Panther Pils ( so help me ) , then switched to Tuborg .
After a few hours , Life hadn't showed , and I was crocked .
I went to my hotel and slept .
The next morning a little cognac made me feel better -- but what can you do in Paris on Sunday morning ? ?
So I drank more cognac .
All that day and Monday I drank just enough to orbit but not make deep space .
I read the Tropic of Capricorn and the Tropic of Cancer .
Elemental , but sex .
That's what was on my mind .
I was turning over the idea of a good debauchery when I dozed off .
I felt better Tuesday evening when I woke up .
My head was clear , my thinking sober and I was reconciled to this Paris idea as a flop on top of all my others .
A good binge has that kind of therapeutic value .
Sometime earlier the weather had turned cold and it was snowing .
I went out into it .
I walked around breathing the cold wine of the air until I found a park , and I sat down on a snowy bench where the light was dim and came from the sky .
There was dignity and beauty in the little white flakes falling through the blue night .
I had on only a topcoat , but I wasn't cold .
I was just miserable .
Pretty soon a woman came along carrying a folded umbrella as a walking stick .
She saw me and sat down beside me , three feet away .
Suddenly I understood why she had the umbrella .
It gave her poise and posture .
Without it she would have been drab and limp .
It gave her propriety .
It gave her the right to sit down beside me , back straight , one hand out on the handle .
I couldn't imagine her without it .
I knew all about her .
She was another human being and happened to be a hustler .
I didn't much care if she were there or not .
After a while she said with sort of an unuttered laugh , `` You have snow in your hair and ears '' .
( I didn't have on a hat .
)
Hardly glancing at her , I smiled a bleak one which said , Thanks , baby , but I'd rather be alone .
She was silent for a while , then said , `` Why are you so unhappy '' ? ?
`` I'm not unhappy '' , I lied , staring at the snow .
She was trying to make a hole in my armor , and I didn't want it .
`` Is it a woman '' ? ?
She asked gently .
She must have seen the ring on my left hand .
`` Well -- women and unhappiness go together '' , I observed profoundly , adding , `` You can wager your derriere on that '' .
`` Ah , Monsieur , it is not my business to wager it .
''
This took me so funny I had to look at her .
I felt my frozen sad face crumble , and I grinned a silly one I couldn't have helped .
I even snorted a chuckle .
She smiled at me , but it was an awfully sad smile .
She was even more miserable than me .
Her eyes were smiling , too , but so sadly , and there was tiredness and infinite wisdom in them .
`` Now isn't it better to smile '' ? ?
She asked .
Because I liked this sad person so much , I said , `` Will you have a drink with me '' ? ?
I could see the ancient cynicism reinforce itself in her eyes , and I wondered how many men she had picked up with this same gambit .
Anyway , I pulled a bottle of Remy Martin out of my topcoat , drew the cork , and passed it to her .
I could see she was shocked .
`` I'm sorry I haven't got a glass '' , I said .
`` Non , non '' , she said , taking the bottle , `` not for that be sorry '' .
She tilted up and drank , and then I drank .
It's really rotten to drink good cognac like that , but I hadn't cared before .
I wasn't going to lug around a glass .
There wasn't much light in the blue dark , but I could see her well .
No child , this tart , she must have been thirty-five or even forty .
I couldn't be sure .
Somehow she was attractive .
Not good looking , but self-confident and wise so that it made her attractive .
I liked her , and all at once I was glad she was there .
We finished the bottle -- I hadn't had a lot out of it earlier -- not speaking much to each other , and we stayed sober .
I suppose we were cold , but we didn't feel it .
We seemed to be drowsing , sadly , soberly , in the cold , cold air while the snow fell .
Then she said , `` Allons '' , and we got up and went to my hotel without another word .
I sensed no stranger in her .
We undressed and made love with the comfortable acceptance I had once known with Valery .
I decided thirty-five was the best estimate of her age .
She had a funny little scar on her stomach , on the left side .
I think we were very tired , for we awoke at the same moment , deeply rested , surprised to see the late morning sun on the windows , which were wet where the rime had melted .
I felt wonderful , the absolute opposite of last night's melancholy .
My head was clear .
I was hungry as a wolf , and my body felt lean and vital .
`` Bon jour '' , I said brightly , sitting up , which pulled the covers to her hips .
She looked good , with her short tousled hair and no make-up .
Maybe closer to thirty , I thought .
`` Bon jour '' ! !
She exclaimed , smiling .
`` J'ai faim '' ! !
`` Yeah , but breakfast first '' .
With a laugh she beat me to the bathroom .
I called downstairs for food and a toothbrush for her .
She came out pink from a hot bath , and I gave her my robe .
I had brushed my teeth , showered , shaved and dressed by the time a waiter wheeled in breakfast .
`` The toothbrush Monsieur '' , he said , presenting it .
I gave it to the woman .
`` What is this for '' ? ?
She asked innocently .
`` Why , to brush your teeth '' .
`` But I already have ! !
I used yours '' .
`` Oh '' ? ?
I said with round eyes .
I wondered if I ought to go use the new one myself .
But I smelled the coffee , and thinking , What the hell , live dangerously , I decided I would scald my worries away .
The coffee wasn't very hot though , made in a filter pot , but it was good .
We sent the waiter away and ate a tremendous amount of cold ham , hot hard-boiled eggs and hot garlic bread .
As we ate , we talked .
Her name was Suzanne , and mine Stephen .
We sat back comfortably on the bed with our last cups of coffee .
`` You are very tactful , do you know , Stephen '' , she remarked .
`` Um '' ? ?
I grunted , sipping .
`` Yes , because you didn't run off to use that new toothbrush '' .
I raised my eyes to look at her in the mirror .
`` I didn't really use yours '' , she went on .
`` I carry one in my purse .
I know men never kiss les putains '' .
To my immense relief , she changed the subject in the next sentence : `` Shall we go to the Louvre today '' ? ?
`` All right '' .
I said with enthusiasm at the idea .
`` But not immediately '' .
I put aside my empty cup .
She smiled all the way to her wise , sad eyes , and drained her own .
We were not rushed .
`` What is this from '' ? ?
I asked , touching the scar on her stomach .
It was like a long thin line drawn through a pink circle .
`` A bullet '' , she answered .
The cynicism was back in her eyes , a bitter wisdom , and I wondered if forty were not so far wrong after all .
She understood sex anyway , and played at it well .
We went to the Louvre for a few hours , then by Metro to a cabaret in Montmartre .
It was a nice place , not filled with smoke .
We had champagne and steamed mussels .
The sommelier brought the wine first , a magnum instead of the bottle I had ordered .
He must have thought I was a tourist .
I fixed him with a steely eye and said , `` What's this for ? ?
I didn't ask for a Jeroboam of champagne '' .
I thought that was pretty humorous , but I didn't laugh .
Two letters had arrived for Miss Theresa Stubblefield : she put them in her bag .
She would not stop to read them in American Express , as many were doing , sitting on benches or leaning against the walls , but pushed her way out into the street .
This was her first day in Rome and it was June .
An enormous sky of the most delicate blue arched overhead .
In her mind's eye -- her imagination responding fully , almost exhaustingly , to these shores' peculiar powers of stimulation -- she saw the city as from above , telescoped on its great bare plains that the ruins marked , aqueducts and tombs , here a cypress , there a pine , and all around the low blue hills .
Pictures in old Latin books returned to her : the Appian Way Today , the Colosseum , the Arch of Constantine .
She would see them , looking just as they had in the books , and this would make up a part of her delight .
Moreover , nursing various Stubblefields -- her aunt , then her mother , then her father -- through their lengthy illnesses ( everybody could tell you the Stubblefields were always sick ) , Theresa had had a chance to read quite a lot .
England , France , Germany , Switzerland , and Italy had all been rendered for her time and again , and between the prescribed hours of pills and tonics , she had conceived a dreamy passion by lamplight , to see all these places with her own eyes .
The very night after her father's funeral she had thought , though never admitted to a soul : Now I can go .
There's nothing to stop me now .
So here it was , here was Italy , anyway , and terribly noisy .
In the street the traffic was really frightening .
Cars , taxis , buses , and motorscooters all went plunging at once down the narrow length of it or swerving perilously around a fountain .
Shoals of tourists went by her in national groups -- English school girls in blue uniforms , German boys with cameras attached , smartly dressed Americans looking in shop windows .
Glad to be alone , Theresa climbed the splendid outdoor staircase that opened to her left .
The Spanish Steps .
Something special was going on here just now -- the annual display of azalea plants .
She had heard about it the night before at her hotel .
It was not yet complete : workmen were unloading the potted plants from a truck and placing them in banked rows on the steps above .
The azaleas were as large as shrubs , and their myriad blooms , many still tight in the bud , ranged in color from purple through fuchsia and rose to the palest pink , along with many white ones too .
Marvelous , thought Theresa , climbing in her portly , well-bred way , for she was someone who had learned that if you only move slowly enough you have time to notice everything .
In Rome , all over Europe , she intended to move very slowly indeed .
Halfway up the staircase she stopped and sat down .
Other people were doing it , too , sitting all along the wide banisters and leaning over the parapets above , watching the azaleas mass , or just enjoying the sun .
Theresa sat with her letters in her lap , breathing Mediterranean air .
The sun warmed her , as it seemed to be warming everything , perhaps even the underside of stones or the chill insides of churches .
She loosened her tweed jacket and smoked a cigarette .
Content excited ; ;
how could you be both at once ? ?
Strange , but she was .
Presently , she picked up the first of the letters .
A few moments later her hands were trembling and her brow had contracted with anxiety and dismay .
Of course , one of them would have to go and do this ! !
Poor Cousin Elec , she thought , tears rising to sting in the sun , but why couldn't he have arranged to live through the summer ? ?
And how on earth did I ever get this letter anyway ? ?
She had reason indeed to wonder how the letter had managed to find her .
Her Cousin Emma Carraway had written it , in her loose high old lady's script -- t's carefully crossed , but l's inclined to wobble like an old car on the downward slope .
Cousin Emma had simply put Miss Theresa Stubblefield , Rome , Italy , on the envelope , had walked up to the post office in Tuxapoka , Alabama , and mailed it with as much confidence as if it had been a birthday card to her next-door neighbor .
No return address whatsoever .
Somebody had scrawled American Express , Piazza di Spagna ? ?
, across the envelope , and now Theresa had it , all as easily as if she had been the President of the Republic or the Pope .
Inside were all the things they thought she ought to know concerning the last illness , death , and burial of Cousin Alexander Carraway .
Cousin Emma and Cousin Elec , brother and sister -- unmarried , devoted , aging -- had lived next door to the Stubblefields in Tuxapoka from time immemorial until the Stubblefields had moved to Montgomery fifteen years ago .
Two days before he was taken sick , Cousin Elec was out worrying about what too much rain might do to his sweetpeas , and Cousin Elec had always preserved in the top drawer of his secretary a mother-of-pearl paper knife which Theresa had coveted as a child and which he had promised she could have when he died .
I'm supposed to care as much now as then , as much here as there , she realized , with a sigh .
This letter would have got to me if she hadn't even put Rome , Italy , on it .
She refolded the letter , replaced it in its envelope , and turned with relief to one from her brother George .
But alas George , when he had written , had only just returned from going to Tuxapoka to Cousin Elec's funeral .
He was full of heavy family reminiscence .
All the fine old stock was dying out , look at the world today .
His own children had suffered from the weakening of those values which he and Theresa had always taken for granted , and as for his grandchildren ( he had one so far , still in diapers ) , he shuddered to think that the true meaning of character might never dawn on them at all .
A life of gentility and principle such as Cousin Elec had lived had to be known at first hand .
Poor George ! !
The only boy , the family darling .
Together with her mother , both of them tense with worry lest things should somehow go wrong .
Theresa had seen him through the right college , into the right fraternity , and though pursued by various girls and various mammas of girls , safely married to the right sort , however much in the early years of that match his wife , Anne , had not seemed to understand poor George .
Could it just be , Theresa wondered , that Anne had understood only too well , and that George all along was extraordinary only in the degree to which he was dull ? ?
As for Cousin Alexander Carraway , the only thing Theresa could remember at the moment about him ( except his paper knife ) was that he had had exceptionally long hands and feet and one night about one o'clock in the morning the whole Stubblefield family had been aroused to go next door at Cousin Emma's call -- first Papa , then Mother , then Theresa and George .
There they all did their uttermost to help Cousin Elec get a cramp out of his foot .
He had hobbled downstairs into the parlor , in his agony , and was sitting , wrapped in his bathrobe , on a footstool .
He held his long clenched foot in both hands , and this and his contorted face -- he was trying heroically not to cry out -- made him look like a large skinny old monkey .
They all surrounded him , the family circle , Theresa and George as solemn as if they were watching the cat have kittens , and Cousin Emma running back and forth with a kettle of hot water which she poured steaming into a white enamelled pan .
`` Can you think of anything to do '' ? ?
She kept repeating .
`` I hate to call the doctor but if this keeps up I'll just have to ! !
Can you think of anything to do '' ? ?
`` You might treat it like the hiccups '' , said Papa .
`` Drop a cold key down his back '' .
`` I just hope this happens to you someday '' , said Cousin Elec , who was not at his best .
`` Poor Cousin Elec '' , George said .
He was younger than Theresa : she remembered looking down and seeing his great round eyes , while at the same time she was dimly aware that her mother and father were not unamused .
`` Poor Cousin Elec '' .
Now , here they both were , still the same , George full of round-eyed woe , and Cousin Emma in despair .
Theresa shifted to a new page .
`` Of course ( George's letter continued ) , there are practical problems to be considered .
Cousin Emma is alone in that big old house and won't hear to parting from it .
Robbie and Beryl tried their best to persuade her to come and stay with them , and Anne and I have told her she's more than welcome here , but I think she feels that she might be an imposition , especially as long as our Rosie is still in high school .
The other possibility is to make arrangements for her to let out one or two of the rooms to some teacher of good family or one of those solitary old ladies that Tuxapoka is populated with -- Miss Edna Whittaker , for example .
But there is more in this than meets the eye .
A new bathroom would certainly have to be put in .
The wallpaper in the back bedroom is literally crumbling off .
'' ( Theresa skipped a page of details about the house .
) `` I hope if you have any ideas along these lines you will write me about them .
I may settle on some makeshift arrangements for the summer and wait until you return in the fall so we can work out together the best .
''
I really shouldn't have smoked a cigarette so early in the day , thought Theresa , it always makes me sick .
I'll start sneezing in a minute , sitting on these cold steps .
She got up , standing uncertainly for a moment , then moving aside to let go past her , talking , a group of young men .
They wore shoes with pointed toes , odd to American eyes , and narrow trousers , and their hair looked unnaturally black and slick .
Yet here they were obviously thought to be handsome , and felt themselves to be so .
Just then a man approached her with a tray of cheap cameos , Parker fountain pens , rosaries , papal portraits .
`` No '' , said Theresa .
`` No , no '' ! !
She said .
The man did not wish to leave .
He knew how to spread himself against the borders of the space that had to separate them .
Carrozza rides in the park , the Colosseum by moonlight , he specialized .
Theresa turned away to escape , and climbed to a higher landing where the steps divided in two .
There she walked to the far left and leaned on a vacant section of banister , while the vendor picked himself another well-dressed American lady , carrying a camera and a handsome alligator bag , ascending the steps alone .
Was he ever successful , Theresa wondered .
The lady with the alligator bag registered interest , doubt , then indignation ; ;
at last , alarm .
She cast about as though looking for a policeman : this really shouldn't be allowed ! !
Finally , she scurried away up the steps .
Theresa Stubblefield , still holding the family letters in one hand , realized that her whole trip to Europe was viewed in family circles as an interlude between Cousin Elec's death and `` doing something '' about Cousin Emma .
They were even , Anne and George , probably thinking themselves very considerate in not hinting that she really should cut out `` one or two countries '' and come home in August to get Cousin Emma's house ready before the teachers came to Tuxapoka in September .
Of course , it wasn't Anne and George's fault that one family crisis seemed to follow another , and weren't they always emphasizing that they really didn't know what they would do without Theresa ? ?
The trouble is , Theresa thought , that while everything that happens there is supposed to matter supremely , nothing here is supposed even to exist .
They would not care if all of Europe were to sink into the ocean tomorrow .
It never registered with them that I had time to read all of Balzac , Dickens , and Stendhal while Papa was dying , not to mention everything in the city library after Mother's operation .
It would have been exactly the same to them if I had read through all twenty-six volumes of Elsie Dinsmore .
She arranged the letters carefully , one on top of the other .
Then , with a motion so suddenly violent that she amazed herself , she tore them in two .
`` Signora '' ? ?
She became aware that two Italian workmen , carrying a large azalea pot , were standing before her and wanted her to move so that they could begin arranging a new row of the display .
`` Mi diapiace , Signora , ma insomma .
''
`` Oh put it there '' ! !
She indicated a spot a little distance away .
I knew it as surely as everybody in Westfield -- that Lucille was a husband stealer .
You can't keep that kind of information quiet in a town of only 4000-plus .
And I've been told that just about every town , no matter what its size , has its Lucille Warren .
Just as it has its Susan Dolan , though nobody'd ever bothered to tell me that .
Susan Dolan , that's me .
They even talked about Lucille down at the Young Christians' League where I spent a lot of time in Bible classes and helping out with the office work for our foreign mission .
I never heard my folks talk about her , though .
They were good-living religious people , and I can truthfully say I never heard them spread any gossip about anybody .
Even if they ever did say anything about people like Lucille Warren , I know they wouldn't have dreamed of saying it in front of me .
My folks and my faith protected me from things like that .
And so I was really upset the first time I discovered that my boy friend Johnnie was seeing Mrs. Warren .
I asked him about it one night while we were sitting in his truck .
I asked him if it was true .
He gave me a straight , honest answer .
`` Look , Sue baby '' , he'd said .
Much as I love you -- well , a guy's a guy and Lucille's willing to -- to come across .
Honest , kitten , that's all it is -- I don't even like Lucille much '' .
I guess it was at that moment that I realized what I was up against in the person of Lucille Warren .
But it didn't seem fair .
My love for Johnnie was young and clean -- how could I possibly compete with a woman like that , who didn't hesitate to use her sex .
Johnnie was a trucker with a small lumber outfit in a town about twenty miles away , and he was also pretty good at anything in the carpentry line .
It was a vivid , sharp February morning that Johnnie first made his appearance in my back yard , bringing some stuff Dad had ordered .
I wasn't in the habit of batting my eyes at delivery men , but the moment I saw Johnnie , I knew he was different .
He wasn't only different -- he was it .
He had an easy masculine grace about him , the kind that kids don't have , but that I had sometimes admired in other older men .
His smile was quick , and his eyes held some promised secret that made my knees go limp .
The most unbelievable thing about the chance meeting was that he seemed interested in me , too .
I could hardly believe such good luck was mine .
And now Lucille Warren had gotten a look at him .
I guess she was between affairs or something , but anyway , she had set her sights on Johnnie , my Johnnie .
I didn't like it one bit .
But what could I do ? ?
A man had to have his release -- at least that's what the boys used to say in high school -- and I wasn't providing it for Johnnie .
Neither was his wife .
She wouldn't have , even if he'd asked her .
But he wouldn't ask her -- he wasn't the kind of man who would force his wife to submit to him against her will .
And he wouldn't leave her either -- he'd told me that .
He was too honorable to leave his wife penniless and leave those helpless children without their daddy .
Johnnie loved me and wanted me .
But the only love I was giving him was the pure kind .
It was weeks before we even kissed for the first time .
Against my folks' wishes , we'd been seeing each other for short rides in the truck .
The rides were tame enough -- mostly we talked .
But by the time the first crackling of spring came around , we both knew we were hopelessly in love .
Yet even then we did nothing much but talk , and maybe neck a little .
`` It's so crazy '' , I told him once .
`` I always imagined I would probably end up marrying a minister or somebody like that .
Somebody with no vices .
You know '' .
`` And you fall for a lumber jockey '' .
`` Who drinks far too much '' .
`` And smokes too much '' .
`` And '' , I was ticking off the items on my fingers , `` swears too much and goes out with the boys , whoever they are , too much , and who ever goes to church and won't even listen when I try to persuade him to come back to the fold '' .
He examined his nails carefully .
`` I could walk out the door '' .
`` Don't you dare '' .
`` And never show my face or my truck around here again '' .
He still wasn't looking at me .
`` You wouldn't '' .
`` Or I could visit Lucille Warren '' .
`` You wouldn't .
Please ! !
You wouldn't '' .
He shrugged noncommittally .
`` I might '' .
And now he was seeing her .
He'd just admitted it to me .
I huddled miserably beside him in the truck .
It was all my doing -- his seeing her .
Johnnie and I had been innocent in our love , and that was the way I wanted to keep it .
At first , Johnnie hadn't understood -- how could he , not being a religious person like me ? ?
But then he had said , `` All right , kid , if that's how you want it , that's how it'll be '' .
But what had I done , trying to keep us pure ? ?
I had driven him into the arms of that scheming woman .
I had just the same as delivered him into the hands of the Devil ! !
So one week later , I surrendered to him in the little motel on Route 10 .
My very first time .
I was desperate to hold him , to give him whatever in this world he wanted or needed , and to keep him from the clutches of Lucille Warren .
And , though at the time I blushed to admit it even to myself , there was in me a growing desire , a sexual awareness , that Johnnie had set in motion , an awareness that no other man had ever triggered .
I wanted him , with a terrifying fierceness .
Astonishingly enough , it was my own voice I heard there in the darkness , begging this man to make love to me .
`` Love me , Johnnie '' .
`` I will , kitten '' ! !
Outside , in the summertime fields behind the motel , a thousand crickets serenaded us .
`` Will you always love me this way '' ? ?
`` Uh huh .
Always '' .
`` Mmm '' .
And I snuggled closer to the man I loved .
It was as blissful and fulfilling a night as any bride ever experienced .
I had had no wedding ceremony , no witnesses , no certificate of marriage , but I had all the joy that goes with them .
`` Johnnie ? ?
`` It can't be wrong , can it ? ?
Not really '' .
Johnnie rose on one elbow .
`` Stop worrying .
It's never wrong if love is real '' .
I took great comfort from his words , and smiled to myself in the darkness .
Infinite peace , complete contentment .
Idiot's delight , I later discovered .
I felt no conflict between what I was doing and my strict religious upbringing .
I had always resisted the passes made at me by other kids , and many times I had thought about my love for Johnnie who , being thirty , brought a maturity to love that the kids around town could know nothing about .
I had also thought a lot about how God must look on true love , and so in a way I was keeping my promise to God , my promise to remain pure until I was married .
I was practically a bride , after all .
There would have been a ceremony if it had been possible .
Of this , I had no doubt .
Wouldn't Johnnie do practically anything in the world to insure my happiness ? ?
Of course he would .
He'd not only told me so , he'd proved it .
It wasn't Johnnie's fault that he was hopelessly tied down to that frightful woman who did her best to make his life unbearable .
Just because he was honorable enough to want to continue supporting his two children , as any decent man would , that was no reason he should be denied his own small share of happiness too .
And if I could contribute to that , I'd do it .
The cost didn't matter .
No price is too high when true love is at stake .
And I had no doubts about how true this love was .
I'd never even petted with a boy , and after I met Johnnie he never touched me for the longest while , not until I all but threw myself at him .
He was plenty attentive , all right , but he behaved like a gentleman , and I figured that , emotionally , I was closer to his age than to my own eighteen and a half .
What could a mere twelve years matter ? ?
It wasn't , I was sure , a difference in age that came between people , but a difference in maturity .
And hadn't I rescued him from Lucille Warren ? ?
She'd have gotten him , if I hadn't stopped her .
After all , Lucille Warren was a husband-stealer from way back .
But I'd been a good girl and now God was blessing me with the gift of this magnificent man and the wondrous love we shared .
It was only fitting that we seek out whatever joy our union might bring .
`` Love me '' ? ?
`` Uh-huh .
Love you '' .
`` Always and always , Johnnie '' ? ?
`` Always '' .
`` Mmm '' .
Convention time in Boston .
A chill wind in the air and the narrow streets packed with snow .
From the entire eastern half of the nation they'd be coming , members of the Young Christians' League , and I'd been chosen to represent our chapter .
I had mixed emotions about going .
I'd been seeing Johnnie almost a year now , but I still didn't want to leave him for five whole days .
But I had looked forward so much to being with this church group .
I hadn't been doing as much work as I used to in Westfield and I felt funny about that and wanted to work harder than ever .
I wanted to just throw myself into the good works of this fine group .
So I went to Boston .
The first meeting was held in Faneuil Hall , a great big place where we were able to meet members from all the other states .
My cousin Alma , at whose home I was staying during the convention , introduced me to a group of young people from Rhode Island .
One of them was a very friendly , lovely fellow named Ronald , a boy about my age with slick , blond hair and dancing blue eyes .
He looked very different from Johnnie -- in fact , he looked sort of like me .
I thought so , and he mentioned it , and Alma said so too .
After the meeting , there was going to be a party at someone's house .
I assumed Alma would get me there , but in the confusion of the meeting breaking up , we were separated .
Outside the hall , I anxiously looked around for her , then all at once there was a hand on my elbow .
`` Hey , there , beautiful twin of mine '' , Ronald said .
`` Need a pumpkin to get to the party '' ? ?
I couldn't help laughing with him .
`` Well , I should find Alma '' -- I began .
`` Alma , Schmalma .
Come along with me '' .
I went .
By the time we arrived , the party was already going strong .
A couple of the girls were laughing rather shrilly and I realized they were drinking .
My folks wouldn't dream of having alcohol in the house , so my first taste of it had been -- of course -- with Johnnie .
I hadn't liked it at first -- it was bitter and burning .
But when Johnnie disguised the taste with ginger ale , I enjoyed it .
Of course I enjoyed 'most anything if I did it with Johnnie .
Johnnie I suddenly realized he'd been totally out of my thoughts all evening .
But that was only natural , I decided ; ;
surely he was still resting snugly in my heart .
`` I don't see Alma anywhere '' , I said .
`` She's invisible tonight .
C'mon , let's find out where they're keeping the glasses '' .
I drew back .
`` I -- I don't think so , Ronald .
Not for me '' .
`` Aw , come on '' .
`` No -- really '' .
He shrugged .
`` Okay .
But at least come along while I get lubricated '' .
The kitchen was jammed .
Strange faces , most of them , and I wasn't even sure all of them had come from the League meeting .
Under normal circumstances , he had a certain bright-eyed all-American-boy charm , with great appeal for young ladies , old ladies , and dogs .
Today , he looked like an Astronaut who had left his vitamin pills on the bureau and spent six months in space : hollow eyes , hollow cheeks , hollow stomach .
Breakfast , he thought .
A shot of orange juice would make everything seem better .
He looked around his little Eden : bureau , bed , table , chair , two-burner stove .
Then he remembered .
`` You share a refrigerator '' , Mrs. Kirby had said , and somehow , at midnight , after the long drive from New York in pelting rain , that had sounded reasonable .
In the cold light of day , it seemed a lunatic arrangement .
Share bath , maybe -- but share refrigerator ? ?
She had explained it -- something about summer people's eating out and not enough space in the units .
And where was the thing ? ?
He remembered seeing it last night , when he put away his small store of bachelor-type eatables .
Ah , yes -- his half of a refrigerator stood outside , on the `` curving veranda '' between Unit Number Three and Unit Number Four .
It was still raining , and Mrs. Kirby's cottages bloomed through the gray haze like the names they bore , vivid blue and green and magenta .
Charlie downed his orange juice and one of the long , skinny green pills , his spirits as damp as the day .
This vacation had seemed like a good idea last week , when his doctor had prescribed it .
`` Take a full month '' , the doctor had said .
`` Lots of sun , lots of rest .
The red pills are a vitamin-and-iron compound .
This is a sleeping capsule .
The others will make you a little more comfortable until you get it licked .
You young men get to be my age , you won't take flu so lightly '' .
Charlie had accepted the diagnosis without comment .
The doctor could call it anything from flu to beriberi ; ;
but Charlie knew what was wrong with him and knew , too , that there was no pill to cure it .
He had loved and lost Vivian Wayne to somebody else , had watched her marry the somebody else , and had caught a bear of a cold by kissing the bride good-by forever , which was really piling it on .
He had caught , too , like an ailment , a confirmed distrust of women .
Once burned -- scalded , really , because Vivian had given him every encouragement -- forever shy .
From now on , his was going to be a man's world : the North Woods , duck blinds at dawning , beer and poker and male secretaries .
Meanwhile , he had this miserable cold , and as he leaned against the refrigerator , watching the rain make sandy puddles at his feet , the doctor's prescription for lots of sun seemed like a hollow mockery .
In these damp circumstances , he was an odds-on bet to develop pneumonia .
He looked up to see Mrs. Kirby , awesome in a black-and-yellow polka-dotted slicker , bearing down on him .
`` Three-day blow '' ! !
She bellowed triumphantly .
He had noticed before that the natives seemed to regard really filthy weather as a kind of Pyhrric victory over the tourists .
`` Fine , day after tomorrow '' , she added .
`` I hope so '' , he said .
`` I've got this cold .
Thought I'd bake it out in the sun '' .
`` Ah '' .
She studied him briefly .
`` You've got a peaked look .
Better get in out of the wet '' .
Charlie forbore to mention that the wet was somewhat universal , Peony being less than weatherproof .
As for its being fine , day after tomorrow , he had the unhappy conviction that it would never be fine again , with Vivian lost to him forever .
He could imagine her at this minute , honeymooning in Nassau with what's-his-name , lounging on golden sands , looking forward to a life of unalloyed bliss .
All Charlie could look forward to was a yellow pill at noon , a salami sandwich for lunch , and a lonely old age -- if he lived that long .
He leafed through the light reading provided by Mrs. Kirby for her guests : four separate adventures of the Bobbsey Twins ( At the Seashore , At the Mountains , On the Farm , and In Danger ) and several agricultural bulletins on the treatment of hoof-and-mouth disease in cattle , hideously illustrated .
He dozed , only to dream of Vivian , and woke , only to crash into the night table , bruising his other shin .
He took a yellow pill , only to choke on it , and went for the salami , only to find something alive in the refrigerator -- something pink and fuzzy .
His first thought was that Mrs. Kirby , in her mania for color , had dyed a cat and that cat had somehow managed to open the refrigerator door and climb in ; ;
but on further investigation , the thing proved to be a sweater , of the long-hair variety that sheds onto men's jackets -- pale , pale pink and , according to the label , size thirty-four .
He thought about it for a minute , could find no reasonable explanation for the presence of a sweater in the refrigerator , got the salami , bread , and a Bermuda onion , and put the whole thing out of his mind .
Next morning , he found a note in the refrigerator .
`` Would you mind wrapping your onion '' ? ?
Said this note .
`` The smell permeates everything '' ! !
Everything being the sweater , a lipstick case , and a squirt bottle of Kissin' Kare pink hand lotion .
The note paper was pink , too , and the handwriting small and dainty and utterly feminine .
Not that he had supposed , considering the evidence , that he was sharing this refrigerator with a member of the Beach Patrol .
He scrawled `` Sorry '' across the bottom of the note and then , against his better judgment , added : `` Don't you eat '' ? ?
He didn't want to encourage anything here ; ;
but on the other hand , he didn't want her swiping his salami .
`` Not onions '' , came the answer the following day .
`` Ugh '' .
Must have really smelled up her sweater , he thought , and wondered idly just why she kept the sweater fast-frozen .
But then , as he well knew , women are not guided by logic or common sense .
Take Vivian .
Yes , take Vivian .
Somebody had .
Now , if this were Vivian next door to him and if , for some obscure female reason , she kept her clothes in the refrigerator , they would not be pink .
They would be black or white or horse-blanket plaid , chic and splashy , like Vivian herself .
Pink , Vivian once had told him , was for baby girls , and grown-up girls who wore pink were subconsciously clinging to their infancy .
`` Why does this girl keep a sweater in the refrigerator '' ? ?
He mused aloud .
Eh '' ? ?
It was Mrs. Kirby , making her toilsome way along the veranda , laden with a clattery collection of mops , brushes , and pails .
`` What's that you say '' ? ?
`` Oh , nothing .
Just glad the rain's stopped '' .
`` Oh , yes .
Just look at that sky .
Be a scorcher by afternoon '' .
`` I hope so .
I've got this cold '' .
`` So you said '' .
She scrutinized him .
`` My , you're peaked .
You want to watch out that you don't get burned to an ash , first sunny day .
I must remember to warn the girl next to you in Larkspur .
That pale kind's the worst '' .
That pale kind , Charlie thought .
Hardly an inviting description .
But then , neither was peaked .
He could hear Mrs. Kirby now , warning her pale guest against sunburn .
`` I spoke to the fellow next door , too '' , she might say .
`` He's that peaked kind '' .
Surely there was a better word .
Charlie looked in the mirror .
Run-down , iron-poor .
He looked more closely .
Frail , feeble -- peaked .
Clearly , two damp days with the Bobbsey Twins had done him no good .
The sun , blazing hot as prophesied , was far from kind to Mrs. Kirby's varicolored properties .
When Charlie came up from the beach for his four-o'clock pill , the whole establishment ( gaudy enough when seen through mist and fog ) looked like a floodlit modern painting -- great blocks of dizzy color , punctuated at regular intervals by the glaring white of five community refrigerators .
This weekend , he thought , he would look around for some more subdued retreat , with Cape roses , maybe , at the door .
He could not imagine a flower's being brave enough to grow beside Peony , Larkspur , and the rest .
The sweater was gone from the refrigerator , and in its place was a large plastic bag , full of wet pink clothes .
No wonder she was so pale , wearing all those cold clothes .
He got a red pill and a beer and then , on impulse , transferred the rest of his salami to her side of the refrigerator and scrawled `` Be my guest '' on the wrapping .
It gave him a good feeling .
`` M-m-m .
Thanks '' , was her answer the next day .
The note was propped against his pill bottles and bore a postscript : `` You're not at all well , are you '' ? ?
`` I've got this cold '' , he wrote .
Not that it was any of her business .
`` It's none of my business '' , said the next note , `` but my Aunt Elsie used to take lemon juice and honey in hot water for a cold , and she lived to be ninety-six .
I mean , she's still living , and she's ninety-six .
Why don't you try that '' ? ?
`` I don't have a lemon '' .
He had to write very small to get it on the bottom of the scrap of paper .
By the next morning , she had turned the paper over .
`` Gee , neither do I '' .
Charlie grinned .
She didn't sound like a pale girl .
She sounded a little like a redhead .
But then , redheads are often pale .
He stuck his head in Mrs. Kirby's little rental office .
`` I guess that redhead next to me took your advice .
I haven't seen her on the beach '' .
`` You won't , if you're looking for a redhead .
She's got browny hair '' .
He spent that afternoon on the beach , looking for a pale , browny-haired girl in a pink bathing suit .
There were pink bathing suits on blondes , and browny-haired girls in red or black or green bathing suits .
There were a sprinkling of daring bikinis and a preponderance of glorified tank suits .
Up on a dune , he saw a girl , all by herself , sitting on a camp stool before an easel and absorbed in her painting .
He paid little attention to her because she was a redhead and because she was wearing white -- one of those bulky , turtle-neck sweaters .
On the beach , there were pale girls and not-so-pale girls .
And he saw them all as he walked up and down .
At two that morning , he was still walking -- up and down Peony , up and down the veranda , up and down the silent , moonlit beach .
Finally , in desperation , he opened the refrigerator , filched her hand lotion , and left a note .
`` I've got this sunburn '' , said the note , `` and I used some of your hand lotion .
Hope you don't mind '' .
`` Of course I don't mind '' , she answered .
`` You're having a miserable time , aren't you ? ?
Use all the lotion you want , and for goodness' sake , stay in out of the sun for a couple of days '' .
This was a very warm , sympathetic girl , he decided .
Sympathy is a fine quality in a woman .
Now Vivian , for instance , was not too long on sympathy .
She felt , and said , that sympathy only made people feel sorry for themselves ; ;
it was a tough world , and you had to be tough to hold your own .
He didn't know what was so tough about Vivian's world , slopping around Nassau with what's-his-name .
Suppose what's-his-name got a sunburn ? ?
Charlie couldn't see Vivian offering any hand lotion .
She might peel him , once the worst of the agony was over .
Charlie spent the next two days in his pajama bottoms , waiting for the fire in his back to subside , and used generous quantities of the hand lotion .
Correspondence passed back and forth .
`` How's your sunburn now ? ?
The only thing , this lotion has glycerin in it , and that whitens the skin , so if you're so anxious to get a tan , you may not want to use it '' .
`` I'm not that anxious , but maybe that's why you're so fair '' .
`` That Mrs. Kirby ! !
I'll bet she told you I was puny , too .
How's your cold '' ? ?
`` Broiled out .
She didn't say you were puny .
Are you ? ?
What's puny '' ? ?
`` Puny goes with pale and peaked .
Do you have anything to read while you're shut up ? ?
There are two things here about Surviving in the Wilderness , and a book called ' Tom Swift and His Speedy Canoe ' ; ;
but the picture of Tom Swift is pretty sinister .
Also the canoe '' .
There was a crowd in the stands for a change and the sun was hot .
The new Riverside pitcher turned out to have an overhand fast ball that took a hop .
For a few innings the Anniston team couldn't figure him out .
Then , in the fifth , Anniston's kid catcher caught onto a curve and smacked the ball into left center field .
Eddie Lee , Riverside's redheaded playing manager , ran after the ball but it rolled past him .
Phil Rossoff cut over to center from left field to get the relay .
Eddie caught up with the ball near the fence and threw it to Phil .
`` Third ! !
Third base '' ! !
Eddie shouted .
Phil spun around and made an accurate throw into Mike Deegan's hands on third base .
Mike caught the ball just as the catcher slid into the bag .
But the Anniston boy had begun his slide too late .
He came into the bag with his body and Mike Deegan brought the ball down full in his face .
`` You bastard '' ! !
The Anniston catcher screamed .
He jumped to his feet and started to throw punches .
Mike Deegan tossed his glove away and began to swing at the catcher .
This brought in everybody from both sides , while the spectators stood up and added to the uproar .
The fighters were separated in a few minutes .
The game was resumed .
But Mike Deegan was boiling mad now .
When the inning was over he cursed the Anniston catcher all the way into the dugout .
Phil Rossoff , coming in from left field , stopped at the water fountain for a drink .
Mike Deegan was standing beside it , facing the field .
He was eyeing the Anniston catcher warming up his pitcher before the inning began .
`` Keep your eyes open , sonny '' ! !
Mike yelled to the catcher .
`` You're in for trouble '' .
The Anniston catcher did not reply with words .
He simply turned to Mike and smiled .
This so infuriated Deegan that he spun around and said : `` I'll get that little bastard .
So help me God , I'll get him '' .
Phil Rossoff said : `` Why don't you leave him alone '' ? ?
`` Mind your own goddamn business '' , Mike Deegan said .
Phil shrugged .
He stepped into the dugout , wondering why Deegan was always looking for trouble .
Maybe the answer was in his eyes .
When Deegan smiled his eyes never fit in with his lips .
In the last of the sixth inning Mike Deegan got up to bat and hit a fast ball over the left fielder's head .
By the time the fielder got his hands on the ball Deegan was rounding third base and heading for home .
The left fielder threw and it was a good one .
But Mike had no chance of being tagged .
The Anniston catcher was straddling home plate .
All Deegan had to do was slide , fall away , but instead , he rammed into the catcher .
Both fell heavily to the ground .
Only Mike got to his feet .
He went back to touch home plate , turned and walked to the dugout without looking back .
The Anniston players and their manager ran out on the field .
They poured water over their catcher's face .
He did not move .
Then the manager called for a doctor .
The Riverside physician came down to look over the injured ballplayer .
Then , quickly , and a little nervously , the doctor ordered a couple of ballplayers to carry the catcher into the dressing room .
Mike Deegan was sitting on the bench , watching .
When the ballplayers started to carry the catcher off the field he said : `` That ought to teach the sonofabitch '' .
Phil Rossoff , seated next to Deegan , got up and moved to the other end of the bench .
The Anniston manager was coming over to the Riverside dugout .
He was followed by four of his men .
It began to look as if something was going to happen .
Mike sat quietly watching the manager come nearer .
Eddie Lee moved over to Mike Deegan's side .
No one said a word .
The Anniston manager came right up to the dugout in front of Mike .
His face was flushed .
`` Deegan '' , the manager said , his voice pitched low , quivering .
`` That was a rotten thing to do '' .
`` For God's sake '' , Mike said , waving the manager away .
`` Stop it , will you ? ?
Tell your guys not to block the plate '' .
`` You didn't have to ram him '' .
`` That's what you say '' .
The Anniston manager looked at Eddie Lee .
It was a cold and calculated look .
He turned and went back across the field to his dugout .
He called in the pitcher who had been pitching , and a big , heavy , powerfully built right hander moved out to the mound for Anniston .
The game started again and in the eighth inning Mike Deegan came up to bat .
Everyone in the ball park seemed to be standing and shouting .
The first ball the hefty pitcher threw came in for Mike's head .
Deegan fell into the dirt , the ball going over him .
He arose slowly and brushed himself off .
He got back into the batter's box and on the next pitch dropped into the dirt again .
`` Hit the bum '' ! !
Somebody yelled from the Anniston bench .
In the Riverside dugout Frankie Ricco , shortstop , whispered into Phil's ear : `` There's gonna be a fight '' .
`` Look at those bastards '' ! !
Charlie Haydon , a pitcher , said .
`` They're looking for trouble '' .
Mike was slow getting into the box this time .
When he finally did he had to duck his head quickly away as the pitch came in .
`` Listen '' ! !
He shouted to the pitcher .
`` One more and I'm coming out there '' ! !
`` I'll be waiting '' ! !
The pitcher yelled back .
Mike Deegan pounded the rubber plate with the end of his bat .
He stood flat-footed in the box , but not very close to the plate now .
The pitcher wound up and the ball came in straight for Mike's head .
Deegan dropped , got up , turned and , holding the bat with both hands up against his chest , began to walk slowly out to the mound .
The pitcher tossed his glove away and came towards Mike Deegan .
They were both walking towards each other , unhurried .
Riverside and Anniston players rushed out on the field .
In the next moment , it seemed , the infield was crowded with spectators , ballplayers , cops , kids and a dog .
There was much shouting and screaming .
Fights sprang up and were quickly squelched .
Mike and the Anniston pitcher were pulled away before they even came together .
Phil Rossoff and two other Riverside players did not go out on the field when the fighting started .
After the game , Phil was taking off his sweatshirt in the dressing room when Mike Deegan came in .
`` It's a helluva thing '' , Mike said , looking at Phil , `` when a guy's own team-mate won't come out and help him in a fight '' .
Phil sighed and pulled the wet sweatshirt over his head .
Frankie Ricco sat down on the bench near Phil .
The other players were undressing quietly .
Eddie Lee had not come in yet .
Mike went over to Phil and stood over him .
`` Why the hell didn't you come out when you saw them gang up on me '' ? ?
`` I didn't think it was necessary '' .
`` Well ! !
Now that's just fine ! !
You didn't think it was necessary '' .
Mike placed both his hands on his hips .
He pushed his jaw forward .
`` Listen , wise guy , if you think I'm gonna do all the fighting for this ball club you're crazy '' .
Mike had a good two inches over Phil and Phil had to look up into Mike's face .
`` I didn't ask you to fight for the ball club '' , Phil said slowly .
`` Nobody else did , either '' .
`` You trying to say I started the fight '' ? ?
`` I'm not trying to say anything '' .
Phil turned away and opened his locker , and then he heard Mike Deegan say : `` You're yellow , Rossoff '' ! !
And Phil banged his locker door shut and spun around .
But before anything could happen Frankie Ricco was between them and Eddie Lee had come into the dressing room .
`` Phil , come into my office '' , Eddie said .
Phil followed Eddie into the office and shut the door .
He sat down before Eddie's desk .
`` I'm doing you a favor '' , Eddie said quickly .
`` You get your unconditional release as of today '' .
Phil's eyes widened just a trifle .
`` The best thing for you to do '' , Eddie said , `` is go home .
You don't belong in professional baseball '' .
Phil had to clear his throat .
`` Is this because of what happened out there '' ? ?
`` No '' , Eddie said .
`` But it does confirm what I've suspected all along '' .
Phil stood up .
`` Listen ! !
This is the second time .
''
`` Sit down , sit down '' , Eddie said .
`` I'm not saying you're yellow .
I am saying you're not a professional ballplayer '' .
Eddie Lee leaned forward over the desk .
`` Now listen to me , Phil .
I'm not steering you wrong .
You haven't got the heart for baseball '' .
Phil shook his head and Eddie frowned .
Suddenly his voice grew hard .
`` What the hell do you think baseball is ? ?
You're not in the big leagues , but if you can't give and take down here what the hell do you think it'll be like up there '' ? ?
Phil started to say something but Eddie cut him short .
`` Now don't tell me what a good ball player you are .
I know you've got talent .
But what you haven't got is the heart to back up that talent with .
The heart , Phil .
You just haven't got the heart for pro-ball , and that's it '' .
Dazed , Phil said : `` I don't get it .
My batting average ''
Eddie stood up abruptly , then sat down just as abruptly .
`` What difference does your batting average make ? ?
Or your fielding average .
Or even the way you run bases .
I tell you when it's necessary to hurt in order to win -- you won't do it .
That's what I mean by no heart for the game .
Baseball's no cinch .
Deegan had no business ramming into that kid out there .
He did it because he knows for each guy he puts out of commission that's one less who might take his job away later on .
What the hell do you think baseball is ? ?
A sport ? ?
It's a way of life , goddamit ! !
And you've got to be ready to cut to ribbons anybody who wants to take your way of life away from you '' ! !
He's wrong ! !
Phil thought .
It's only his opinion .
There were other clubs in this league .
He stood up slowly .
He was a little pale and shaky .
His lips felt glued together .
`` I think you're wrong , Eddie '' , he said finally .
Eddie nodded .
`` Okay .
You'll get your pay in the morning '' .
Phil turned and left the room , hearing Eddie say : `` Someday you'll see I was right '' .
Phil shut the door behind him .
Outside in the dressing room , Frankie Ricco sat on the bench dressed in his street clothes .
`` What happened '' ? ?
Frankie asked .
Phil said : `` I got my release '' .
`` You crazy '' ? ?
Phil shrugged .
`` What for '' ? ?
Phil sighed .
Frankie shook his head .
`` I don't get it '' .
`` I don't know '' , Phil said .
They were silent for a few moments .
Then Frankie said : `` What are you gonna do '' ? ?
Phil started to take his clothes off and Frankie sat down on the bench again .
Phil took off one shoe and stared at it .
`` Don't take it like this '' , Frankie said .
`` Hell , plenty of guys get let out and come back later .
The leagues are full of guys like that '' .
Phil was very quiet .
`` What are you gonna do , Phil '' ? ?
Phil did not answer .
`` Why not try another club '' ? ?
Phil looked up .
What the hell right did Eddie have saying a thing like that ? ?
`` Springfield's in tomorrow '' , Frankie said .
`` Talk to Whitey Jackson '' .
He just didn't know what he was talking about , saying a thing like that .
`` Will you do it , Phil '' ? ?
`` Do what '' ? ?
`` Ask Whitey for a job '' .
Phil nodded .
`` Sure '' , he said .
`` Springfield come in tomorrow '' ? ?
Frankie nodded .
`` I'll speak to Whitey '' .
`` Atta boy '' .
`` I'll talk to him , all right '' .
`` Don't worry '' , Frankie said .
`` You'll get a job there .
He needs outfielders bad '' .
`` I'm not worried about it '' , Phil said .
`` That's the way to talk .
What else did Eddie have to say '' ? ?
`` Nothing '' , Phil said .
Richard's next interest seemed the product of his insularity .
His broad reading took him into certain by-ways of religion and the subject of religion began to fascinate him .
When he was twelve he took to reading St. Augustine and Aquinas , then Lao-tse , Confucius , Mencius , Suzuki , Hindu tomes by endless Krishnaists and numerous socio-archaeological papers .
For his birthday , because Richard had seen them in a store and asked for them , his mother bought him the Zend-Avesta and a little image of the Indian god , Acala .
And one day , on her own , his mother came home with a present entitled The Book of the Dead , which she suspected Richard would enjoy .
He was enormously happy with her gift and smiled , then went to his room to read .
At dinner one night , when he was fourteen , Richard announced , `` There is only one god '' .
`` Did you think there were two '' ? ?
Grinned his father .
`` You don't understand '' , Richard said gloomily .
Through quiet laughter his mother said , `` Don't speak to your father like that , Richard '' .
Richard seldom spoke anyhow and he didn't speak to his parents about religion again .
His interest in the formal study of religion waned when he was sixteen and he substituted for it an interest in Asian affairs .
Although he still didn't speak to anyone , he grew fond of saying , `` The future lies in Asia '' , when the opportunity arose , and when he graduated from high school his parents sent him to New York to give him a foundation , they said , for his life in Asian studies .
Richard was a solitary student in New York and acquired , in his remoteness , a thorough if bookish knowledge of Asian lore , literature , life , politics and history .
He was awarded a fellowship to continue his studies in Tokyo and he packed up his clothes , the biwa upon which he had been practicing and his image of Acala , and left to spend a week at home before leaving the country .
The week at home was not comfortable .
His mother , who had seen little of him for four years , appeared worried about his sailing off by himself for an Orient which , she herself having slight knowledge of it , had to be distrusted .
She seemed to work to grow close to her son in the few days he spent at home , talking to him about some of the more pleasant moments of his childhood and then trying to talk to him about those things in which he alone was interested .
`` Do you still have The Book of the Dead '' ? ?
She asked him and , laughing , she added , `` I was nervous about buying a book with a title like that , but I knew you'd like it '' .
`` Yes '' , he lied to shorten the conversation , `` I still have it '' .
He was no longer able to relax in the presence of his parents and found it difficult to keep up a conversation with his mother or father , no matter the subject .
As for The Book of the Dead , it along with his other books on religion had been incarcerated in a furnace in the basement of the building in which he had lived in New York .
He had dusted each of the books carefully and carried them all to the basement and , trembling at having to open the big furnace , given them up to the flames .
Then he sped from the dark basement and returned to his room and cried .
Richard left America with his clothes , his biwa and his image of Acala and , on the freighter which took him to Japan , he plucked at the biwa , trying to make the sounds he wrought resemble an ancient Japanese tune he had once heard .
During his second week at sea he brought the curious melody out of the instrument and suddenly wanted to force the biwa to remain at just that moment in its history when it had given him pleasure .
He stole from his cabin late that night and crept out into a gusty North Pacific wind and dropped the biwa into the water .
It was so dark that he didn't see it hit the water and the noisy rush of the ocean kept him from hearing it .
It was as though the biwa had been eaten up by the wind .
In Tokyo Richard took up a life similar to that which he had lived in New York , except that he had replaced his biwa with a friend .
An American student named Charlotte Adams had refused to take notice of his evident aversion to people and had at last succeeded in getting him to talk to her .
He had nothing much to say to her but that he said anything seemed to please her and he accompanied her on some of her unusually searching tours of Tokyo .
In Charlotte , Richard saw a frankness and a zest for doing things which , after a fashion , he envied .
In time , he grew to depend upon her occasional company and she at length was able to encourage him to participate in more social activity .
She convinced him that he ought to be a member of some of the small tea-drinking parties she held at her rooms and in the end he complied with her wishes , although it was only rarely that he added anything to the random conversations .
At one such gathering Charlotte announced , `` I was at Ryusenji today .
Have you ever been to Ryusenji '' ? ?
No one had .
`` Well , it's at Fudomae and there was a tan young man , quite naked , taking a shower in the pool .
I was thoroughly startled '' .
Richard thought it a more promising remark than any made during the last conversation , but Charlotte's manner during the gatherings was more flippant and superficial than when she was alone with him and he was sure her remark would lead to nothing much better than the pointless words which had preceded it .
Three of the four persons present , all foreign students in Tokyo , had been playing a game of judging popular Japanese foods by the In and Out system , an equation in which Zen philosophy was used as the modifier .
Soba , udon and tea were In because they could be taken noisily .
Sushi was Out because it was pretentious .
Sashimi was In , Samuel Burns had suggested , because it was too far Out to stay Out , even if it was a little pretentious .
Richard had kept his eyes down throughout the game , the very sound of the chatter nearly painful to his ears .
`` He wasn't the least bit disturbed by my watching him '' , said Charlotte .
`` Did you watch him '' ? ?
Asked a red-haired girl named Ceecee Witter .
`` I shouldn't have been able to do that '' .
`` Well I was able to do it '' , Charlotte said with no sign of irritation .
`` For a minute , anyhow .
I'm surprised no one has been there .
I've been there a number of times .
Sam , I thought you knew everything about Tokyo .
You've never been to Ryusenji '' ? ?
`` I've heard about it '' , Samuel Burns said .
`` There's a little place there called Lovers Mound dedicated to Gompachi and Komurasaki '' .
`` Yes , a little parkish place '' , Charlotte said , and concluded , `` Anyhow , it's all very nice .
And the man who brought sweet potatoes into Kanto is buried there , next to a beautiful seated statue of Fudo .
Oh , that's what I meant to tell you .
This is the interesting part , Richard '' , she had a bothersome habit of trying to pull him into the talking .
`` There was that fellow out there in the bitter cold '' --
`` My God , it was cold today '' , said Samuel Burns .
`` Twenty-two or twenty-three '' .
`` And the water would be still colder '' , Ceecee seemed to shiver at the thought of it .
`` And your golden god '' , said Samuel Burns , `` probably went right home and poured himself into a boiling bath .
It would kill one of us '' .
`` But the point is '' , Charlotte said , `` there he was , freezing , naked in a little stream of water at Ryusenji , all in worship of Fudo , the god of fire '' .
Richard's dark eyes came up and seemed for the tiniest moment to reflect sharp light .
It was true ; ;
Fudo , the god of wisdom , was also thought of as the Japanese version of Acala .
The conversation went on but Richard stopped listening .
He found himself trying to remember something , but he couldn't decide even the nature of what it was he worked to recall .
He had almost given up when he realized that the dropping of his biwa into the icy jowls of the black Pacific was the memory for which he had been searching .
Perhaps he sensed some connection between the incident on the freighter and the ascetic at Ryusenji , he was unable to put it together .
That night , after leaving Charlotte's apartment , Richard walked about for a time before returning to his room .
When he at last did go to his room , he couldn't sleep and instead paced up and down before his little image of Acala , thinking first of Charlotte's tale of the man at Ryusenji , then of his biwa and the invisible Pacific waters .
And the next morning , not sure of why he went , he took the train to Fudomae and walked to Ryusenji .
He was surprised by the sharp sensation he experienced as he approached the pool which Charlotte had mentioned .
He went through a gate to stand at the edge of the water and gazed at the two thin falls which dropped from large spigots high at the back of the pool .
On the hillside above was caged what might have been an incarnation of Fudo , or perhaps a demon .
The strange creature , housed in wire , made him shudder .
The sensation he so overwhelmingly realized was one which told him he had been there before but he knew he had not , and could not recall any place he had visited to be likened to the limpid green water or the little fountain-falls or the green demon imprisoned beyond his reach .
He left the pool and climbed the steep stone stairs to the temple , and the sense of familiarity with the place would not leave him .
Into a little well before the temple he dropped a hundred-yen coin and then he had an urge to sound the bell before the temple , to take hold of the rope and crash it against the circle of bronze ; ;
but the spirit he wished to call out would not , he knew , come in the person of the temple priest .
Instead , he walked around the temple and mounted still another flight of stairs and stood before the seated Fudo at their head .
The black Fudo seemed to stare rigidly back at him and Richard's eyes were caught by the Fudo's in fascination , and then Richard was shocked as , all at once , flames shot out from the sharp features of Fudo's face and there was a terrible metallic scraping sound , as if the large statue were about to burst from some pressure within it .
Then the flames were gone , the stillness fell upon the severe black face and Richard began to tremble violently .
Suddenly he emptied his pockets of all his coins and dropped them into the box before the seated Fudo and hurried back down both stairways and away from the temple , never looking back .
He walked all the miles back to his room .
He seemed to have picked up a virus that day , because the next morning he had a small cough and felt a bit hot .
He stayed home , reading and refusing to think about his frightening experience at Ryusenji .
But the process of refusing to think about it was an active reminder in itself and he couldn't rid himself of a consciousness of it throughout the day .
The cold lingered , making sleep difficult that night , and he remained in bed still the next morning , now unable to keep from thinking about the inexplicable sight of burning metal , the wretched sound , the unbearable feeling of having been to a remote Tokyo temple at some earlier time in his life .
All of the elements of the experience were impossible and yet the reality of them was heavy upon him and he resolved never again to visit the temple at Fudomae .
I was thinking of the heat and of water that morning when I was plowing the stubble field far across the hill from the farm buildings .
It had grown hot early that day , and I hoped that the boy , my brother's son , would soon come across the broad black area of plowed ground , carrying the jar of cool water .
The boy usually was sent out at about that time with the water , and he always dragged an old snow-fence lath or a stick along , to play with .
He pretended that the lath was a tractor and he would drag it through the dirt and make buzzing , tractor sounds with his lips .
I almost ran over the snake before I could stop the tractor in time .
I had turned at the corner of the field and I had to look back to raise the plow and then to drop it again into the earth , and I was thinking of the boy and the water anyway , and when I looked again down the furrow , the snake was there .
It lay half in the furrow and half out , and the front wheels had rolled nearly up to it when I put in the clutch .
The tractor was heavily loaded with the weight of the plow turning the earth , and the tractor stopped instantly .
The snake slid slowly and with great care from the new ridge the plow had made , into the furrow and did not go any further .
I had never liked snakes much , I still had that kind of quick panic that I'd had as a child whenever I saw one , but this snake was clean and bright and very beautiful .
He was multi-colored and graceful and he lay in the furrow and moved his arched and tapered head only so slightly .
Go out of the furrow , snake , I said , but it did not move at all .
I pulled the throttle of the tractor in and out , hoping to frighten him with the noise , but the snake only flicked its black , forked tongue and faced the huge tractor wheel , without fright or concern .
I let the engine idle then , and I got down and went around the wheel and stood beside it .
My movement did frighten the snake and it raised its head and trailed delicately a couple of feet and stopped again , and its tongue was working very rapidly .
I followed it , looking at the brilliant colors on its tubular back , the colors clear and sharp and perfect , in orange and green and brown diamonds the size of a baby's fist down its back , and the diamonds were set one within the other and interlaced with glistening jet-black .
The colors were astonishing , clear and bright , and it was as if the body held a fire of its own , and the colors came through that transparent flesh and skin , vivid and alive and warm .
The eyes were clear and black and the slender body was arched slightly .
His flat and gracefully tapered head lifted as I looked at him and the black tongue slipped in and out of that solemn mouth .
You beauty , I said , I couldn't kill you .
You are much too beautiful .
I had killed snakes before , when I was younger , but there had been no animal like this one , and I knew it was unthinkable that an animal such as that should die .
I picked him up , and the length of him arched very carefully and gracefully and only a little wildly , and I could feel the coolness of that radiant , fire-colored body , like splendid ice , and I knew that he had eaten only recently because there were two whole and solid little lumps in the forepart of him , like fieldmice swallowed whole might make .
The body caressed through my hands like cool satin , and my hands , usually tanned and dark , were pale beside it , and I asked it where the fire colors could come from the coolness of that body .
I lowered him so he would not fall and his body slid out onto the cool , newly-plowed earth , from between my pale hands .
The snake worked away very slowly and delicately and with a gorgeous kind of dignity and beauty , and he carried his head a little above the rolled clods .
The sharp , burning colors of his body stood brilliant and plain against the black soil , like a target .
I felt good and satisfied , looking at the snake .
It shone in its bright diamond color against the sun-burned stubble and the crumbled black clods of soil and against the paleness of myself .
The color and beauty of it were strange and wonderful and somehow alien , too , in that dry and dusty and uncolored field .
I got on the tractor again and I had to watch the plow closely because the field was drawn across the long hillside and even in that good soil there was a danger of rocks .
I had my back to the corner of the triangular field that pointed towards the house .
The earth was a little heavy and I had to stop once and clean the plowshares because they were not scouring properly , and I did not look back towards the place until I had turned the corner and was plowing across the upper line of the large field , a long way from where I had stopped because of the snake .
I saw it all at a glance .
The boy was there at the lower corner of the field , and he was in the plowed earth , stamping with ferocity and a kind of frenzied impatience .
Even at that distance , with no sound but the sound of the tractor , I could tell the fierce mark of brutality on the boy .
I could see the hunched-up shoulders , the savage determination , the dance of his feet as he ground the snake with his heels , and the pirouette of his arms as he whipped at it with the stick .
Stop it , I shouted , but the lumbering and mighty tractor roared on , above anything I could say .
I stopped the tractor and I shouted down to the boy , and I knew he could hear me , for the morning was clear and still , but he did not even hesitate in that brutal , murdering dance .
It was no use .
I felt myself tremble , thinking of the diamond light of that beauty I had held a few moments before , and I wanted to run down there and halt , if I could , that frenetic pirouette , catch the boy in the moment of his savagery , and save a glimmer , a remnant , of that which I remembered , but I knew it was already too late .
I drove the tractor on , not looking down there ; ;
I was afraid to look for fear the evil might still be going on .
My head began to ache , and the fumes of the tractor began to bother my eyes , and I hated the job suddenly , and I thought , there are only moments when one sees beautiful things , and these are soon crushed , or they vanish .
I felt the anger mount within me .
The boy waited at the corner , with the jar of water held up to me in his hands , and the water had grown bubbly in the heat of the morning .
I knew the boy well .
He was eleven and we had done many things together .
He was a beautiful boy , really , with finely-spun blonde hair and a smooth and still effeminate face , and his eyelashes were long and dark and brushlike , and his eyes were blue .
He waited there and he smiled as the tractor came up , as he would smile on any other day .
He was my nephew , my brother's son , handsome and warm and newly-scrubbed , with happiness upon his face and his face resembled my brother's and mine as well .
I saw then , too , the stake driven straight and hard into the plowed soil , through something there where I had been not long before .
I stopped the tractor and climbed down and the boy came eagerly up to me .
`` Can I ride around with you '' ? ?
He asked , as he often did , and I had as often let him be on the tractor beside me .
I looked closely at his eyes , and he was already innocent ; ;
the killing was already forgotten in that clear mind of his .
`` No , you cannot '' , I said , pushing aside the water jar he offered to me .
I pointed to the splintered , upright stake .
`` Did you do that '' ? ?
I asked .
`` Yes '' , he said , eagerly , beginning a kind of dance of excitement .
`` I killed a snake ; ;
it was a big one '' .
He tried to take my hand to show me .
`` Why did you kill it '' ? ?
`` Snakes are ugly and bad '' .
`` This snake was very beautiful .
Didn't you see how beautiful it was '' ? ?
`` Snakes are ugly '' , he said again .
`` You saw the colors of it , didn't you ? ?
Have you ever seen anything like it around here '' ? ?
`` Snakes are ugly and bad , and it might have bitten somebody , and they would have died '' .
`` You know there are no poisonous snakes in this area .
This snake could not harm anything '' .
`` They eat chickens sometimes '' , the boy said .
`` They are ugly and they eat chickens and I hate snakes '' .
`` You are talking foolishly '' , I said .
`` You killed it because you wanted to kill it , for no other reason '' .
`` They're ugly and I hate them '' , the boy insisted .
`` Nobody likes snakes '' .
`` It was beautiful '' , I said , half to myself .
The boy skipped along beside me , and he was contented with what he had done .
The fire of the colors was gone ; ;
there was a contorted ugliness now ; ;
the colors of its back were dull and gray-looking , torn and smashed in , and dirty from the boy's shoes .
The beautifully-tapered head , so delicate and so cool , had been flattened as if in a vise , and the forked tongue splayed out of the twisted , torn mouth .
The snake was hideous , and I remembered , even then , the cool , bright fire of it only a little while before , and I thought perhaps the boy had always seen it dead and hideous like that , and had not even stopped to see the beauty of it in its life .
I wrenched the stake out , that the boy had driven through it in the thickest part of its body , between the colored diamond crystals .
I touched it and the coolness , the ice-feeling , was gone , and even then it moved a little , perhaps a tiny spasm of the dead muscles , and I hoped that it was truly dead , so that I would not have to kill it .
And then it moved a little more , and I knew the snake was dying , and I would have to kill it there .
The boy stood off a few feet and he had the stake again and he was racing innocently in circles , making the buzzing tractor sound with his lips .
I'm sorry , I thought to the snake , for you were beautiful .
I took the broken length of it around the tractor and I took one of the wrenches from the tool-kit and I struck its head , not looking at it , to kill it at last , for it could never live .
The boy came around behind me , dragging the stake .
`` It's a big snake , isn't it '' ? ?
He said .
`` I'm going to tell everybody how big a snake I killed '' .
`` Don't you see what you have done '' ? ?
I said .
`` Don't you see the difference now '' ? ?
`` It's an ugly , terrible snake '' , he said .
He came up and was going to push at it with his heavy shoes .
I could see the happiness in the boy's eyes , the gleeful brutality .
`` Don't '' , I said .
I could have slapped the boy .
He looked up at me , puzzled , and he swayed his head from side to side .
I thought , you little brute , you nasty , selfish , little beast , with brutality already developed within that brain and in those eyes .
I wanted to slap his face , to wipe forever the insolence and brutal glee from his mouth , and I decided then , very suddenly , what I would do .
Cady didn't come unglued easily , but this had not been a day of glad tidings .
Tax worries , production worries , personnel worries , and the letter from Hanford College , his own alma mater , a real snapper .
Hanford realized he had enrolled his son four years ago .
Yes , the boy's credentials were in order -- scholastic transcript , character references , picture , health record , successful college boards .
But due to the many applicants on file , would he co-operate and write a personal letter giving them his son's motivation , interests and his qualifications for leadership ? ?
Cady Partlow lit his pipe with no comfort .
This was it .
This was the letter which would or would not enroll his son , David , in Hanford .
His son who had never held an office in any organization in the eighteen years of his life .
His son who did not know whether he wanted to be doctor , lawyer , merchant or chief .
He wondered if he had played it wrong .
Maybe he should have kept in touch .
Gone back for reunions .
But he had been busy building a business , being a big man in his own town just as he had been a big man at Hanford , Class of 1935 .
Besides , Cady Partlow knew he wasn't the old-grad-type .
It wouldn't help anyway .
Look at Pete Alcorn , who hadn't missed a Hanford ball game in fifteen years .
Pete's son was rejected .
Hanford College , Little Ivy League , had no room for football players with low grades .
Cady looked at his own son's scholastic record with pride .
Good solid B average with a sprinkling of A's in math and science .
Imagine his son being that good in science ! !
Mr. Partlow could still feel a cold sweat on his slightly gray temples as he remembered what a near thing chemistry had been for him at Hanford .
But then , he hadn't studied very hard .
Getting elected president of the student body took a lot of time and politicking .
He put down his pipe and started to type .
`` In response to your letter , I can in good conscience recommend my son , David , in the field of leadership '' .
He stopped and looked at the picture of his son , the picture on his desk which had changed with the years from a laughing baby to a candidate for Hanford College .
He didn't have to be told his son looked like him .
David had the same gray eyes , high cheekbones , dark hair and a certain rugged ugliness .
Height , 6' .
Weight , 160 .
Health , excellent .
He turned back to the typewriter with a little more confidence .
`` His interests range from astronomy and geology to electronics , tennis and swimming .
His chief motivation for enrolling at Hanford is the desire to '' --
Mr. Partlow banged his fist on the keyboard , ruining the letter .
He paced to the window and looked at the city he had helped to build .
How do you tell a college president that your son doesn't know what he wants to do ? ?
That you have refused to drive him into the family business or push him into a profession so you can say at the club , `` Of course David has known since he was twelve he wanted to be an engineer '' -- or a lawyer , or an editor ? ?
How do you tell a college like Hanford that your son has a vast potential , that he will find himself ? ?
Just give him time , give him a chance .
Cady snapped the Venetian blind shut and slammed himself down before the typewriter , rolled in a fresh sheet , and gave his letter the same savage attention he bestowed on a salesman who needed to have the bucket taken off his thick head .
What a production to make of a letter commending your own son ! !
His eyebrow went up in amusement at his soul-searching panic .
He told Hanford his son wanted to go into the field of electronics .
He told Hanford his son had participated in numerous high-school activities .
He belonged to a social club , a civic group , little theater , swimming team , and had been president of the student forum as well as treasurer of the science club .
He finished with a flurry of good wishes to Hanford College and signed the letter .
There , that did it .
Then he met the grave eyes of his wife , Anne , from the photograph next to David's .
He shoved the unsealed letter into his coat pocket .
Better show it to Anne and see if he had omitted anything .
After all , his wife had written most of his letters for him in those first lean days of Partlow Products .
Anne had a way with words .
Half of it was natural , half was Smith College .
Yet the whole of Anne was something she had never learned in any college .
A woman had it or she didn't .
Anne had it .
She said what she meant and let it be .
She never got on his back .
He could take the advice or leave it .
He whistled as he locked the office and grinned as he got on the elevator .
`` You look like you just heard a real gasser , Mr. Partlow '' .
Cady looked at Tom , who had taken him up and down for fifteen years .
`` I was just thinking how things have changed .
When I went to college they begged you to come .
Be our guest ! !
It's our pleasure ! !
Now you have to be well rounded , firm in motivation and pre-packed with knowledge '' ! !
Tom slid open the door to the lobby .
`` That's a fact , Mr. Partlow .
My John applied to six colleges before he got in '' .
`` Going to State '' ? ?
`` No .
He's president of the rocket club here , you know .
Always messing around with science stuff .
Real bright along those lines , you might say .
He got a science scholarship to Yale '' .
`` Oh '' , said Mr. Partlow , `` that's fine , Tom .
Just fine '' .
As he drove home through the thinning traffic , Cady felt the unease growing .
He hadn't told anyone , but he , too , had applied to five colleges for David .
They had all turned down his son .
Weakness in leadership .
So sorry .
Limited interests .
So sorry .
No clear motivation .
So sorry .
He suddenly realized when he walked into his own pretty darned expensive house that he needed the Martini Anne had waiting for him .
But tonight his drink tasted like branch water and even his favorite meal of steak and tossed salad gave no surcease from the growing weight of the letter in his pocket .
Nor did looking at Anne ease the tension as it usually did .
He liked looking at Anne .
Most people did .
He liked her blond hair and the sprinkle of freckles across her nose .
From those navy-blue eyes she saw things as clearly and honestly as David did .
She always could sense the shag end of a woolly day .
`` Board meeting tonight , Cady '' ? ?
`` No , I begged off .
Work to do '' .
`` Can I have the car , Dad '' ? ?
`` Why not let him take it , Cady ? ?
I know it is midweek , but it's only eight days before commencement .
Let's forget the rules '' .
Cady , deep in thought , neither heard nor answered .
David grinned .
Carefully he put down his steak knife and said loudly , `` Mr. Chairman '' ! !
Cady Partlow's head came up like that of the proverbial fire horse .
`` I'm sorry , Dave .
The car ? ?
Of course you can have it '' .
Dave ate two pieces of pie as he did everything else , slowly , methodically and with interest .
`` Hear anything from Hanford yet , Dad '' ? ?
Cady begged the question .
`` Don't worry about it , Dave .
Your acceptance will come through '' .
Dave shrugged on his sports coat and picked up the car keys .
`` Don't be too sure , Dad .
Charles Burke got turned down by Dartmouth and he is a straight-A student '' .
Anne said it wasn't surprising because Charles was antisocial , a lone wolf , and completely one-sided .
`` I can hardly say the same about you , Dave '' ! !
Dave kissed her lightly .
`` Girls , my dear parent , are here to stay ! !
Get my old man to bed early .
He looks a little bit frayed '' .
Anne waited until the door had slammed and picked up the coffeepot .
`` Let's go into the library .
You do seem somewhat tattered '' .
Cady trailed her with the coffee cups and settled into his favorite chair in the comfortable book-lined room .
`` I didn't know I looked so dilapidated '' ! !
`` Wrong word , darling .
Your fur has been rubbed the wrong way and you show it .
Need any help '' ? ?
`` In a way , yes .
Hanford College hasn't decided on Dave's application yet .
They want a letter from me on his motives , interests and leadership .
Here's what I wrote '' .
Cady handed her the letter , drank his coffee and waited with what he suddenly realized was belligerence .
Already he could feel Anne's questioning eyes .
`` I know you wrote this in a hurry , but , Cady , Dave was only acting president of the student forum for a few days .
That was when half the school was down with flu '' .
`` But he was president '' .
`` And he wasn't really elected treasurer of the science club .
He just took over the week Bill Daley was in the state basketball play-off '' .
Cady stuck his jaw out .
`` The fact remains he was treasurer '' .
`` And the swimming team .
No , Cady , he made second team .
Just missed the first '' .
`` A team is a team '' , insisted Cady .
`` Anything else '' ? ?
`` Yes '' , she said quietly .
`` I don't think you've been quite honest , Cady .
It isn't like you .
David's interests .
Astronomy .
He was mad about stars at the age of nine .
Geology , You and Dave used his rock collection for the bottom of the fishpond six years ago ! !
Those aren't his interests now '' .
`` What do you suggest '' ? ?
`` Just say he likes swimming , tennis , chess and music '' .
`` Music ! !
He hasn't been to a symphony concert all season '' .
Anne smiled .
`` But he plays bass with Chief Crazy Horse and his Five Colts '' ! !
`` You mean that rock-and-roll combo ? ?
Even in that he never solos like Jack on guitar or Rich on sax .
He's -- he's just there , that's all '' .
`` Yes , he's just there .
He keeps the beat going .
He likes to play bass because he doesn't have to solo .
He doesn't like to rise and shine .
Don't worry , Cady , he'll be back in the Beethoven fold by next year '' .
Cady appeared slightly mollified .
`` All right .
But I refuse to be brutally honest and mention Chief Crazy Horse and his Five Colts '' .
Anne laughed and Cady felt the tension loosen its grip on the back of his neck .
`` Maybe I am padding it a bit , Anne '' , he said .
`` But you know how hard it is to get a boy into a good college .
He has to have leadership as well as grades '' .
Anne folded the worrisome document .
`` Did you know he is advertising his ham-radio equipment for sale this weekend ? ?
He hasn't used it now for several years .
Can you really say his motivation for college is electronics '' ? ?
Cady felt the jolt as though he had stepped off the curb on his heel .
`` And what would you say he wants to do ? ?
Just what '' ? ?
`` It's Dave who is applying to Hanford College .
Why don't you ask him '' ? ?
For once Cady Partlow wished Anne would yell at him so he could yell back .
`` I have talked to him , but you know I've never tried to push him into any profession .
I won't be guilty of trying to run his life '' .
Anne picked up the towel she was hemming for the hospital guild .
`` Just because your father tried to make a banker out of you , you've leaned over backward to keep your hands off .
But subconsciously you've wanted him to conform to your mold .
You want him to be a leader of men , like you '' .
Cady put the well-worn chip back on his shoulder .
`` Dave has qualities of leadership .
He just hasn't developed them yet .
Give him time '' .
He never will , Cady .
Not the kind of leadership you mean , working with lots of people .
All your wishful thinking won't change that .
Remember what you used to say in the Army ? ?
You can't run a war with ninety-nine generals and one private '' ! !
Cady walked the block to the mailbox , almost ashamed of himself for arguing with Anne .
Martin felt it was incredible that the situation had come to exist at all .
And once begun , had grown to such monstrous proportions .
The pair of white cotton shorts ruled his life .
Lying awake at night , he could see them , laid out on the floor of his mind .
When he rose in the morning , the image was still there .
He had always been a messy and negligent man .
In his bachelor days , his bedroom had been strewn with clothes which his mother , or later the hotel maid , generally saw fit to put in order .
No doubt Dolores resented following in their footsteps .
But it was fun those first days , kidding about the trail of garments he left littered across the rug .
There was an assertive maleness in his grinning refusal to pick them up .
Half slyly he enjoyed seeing her stoop to lift the things .
He remembered the first time he saw her , standing across the room at a party .
The smooth curve of her neck , very white against hair which curled against it like petals .
Her hair was the color of those blooms which in seed catalogues are referred to as `` black '' , but since no flower is actually without color contain always a hint of grape or purple or blue -- he wanted to draw the broad patina of hair through his fingers , searching it slowly for a trace of veining which might reveal its true shade beneath the darkness .
So he sought her out , and spoke to her , and thought of his hand in her hair .
Or against her back , pressed on the column of vertebrae , which held her so magnificently straight and unyielding , until the segments of bone made tiny sharp cracking noises , like the snapped stem of a tulip .
But , to put it bluntly , nothing snapped .
Yet that had not seriously troubled him , not then .
They married .
