Captain Benwick listened attentively , and seemed grateful for the interest implied ; and though with a shake of the head , and sighs which declared his little faith in the efficacy of any books on grief like his , noted down the names of those she recommended , and promised to procure and read them .
When the evening was over , Anne could not but be amused at the idea of her coming to Lyme to preach patience and resignation to a young man whom she had never seen before ; nor could she help fearing , on more serious reflection , that , like many other great moralists and preachers , she had been eloquent on a point in which her own conduct would ill bear examination .
Chapter 12
Anne and Henrietta , finding themselves the earliest of the party the next morning , agreed to stroll down to the sea before breakfast .
They went to the sands , to watch the flowing of the tide , which a fine south - easterly breeze was bringing in with all the grandeur which so flat a shore admitted .
They praised the morning ; gloried in the sea ; sympathized in the delight of the fresh - feeling breeze -- and were silent ; till Henrietta suddenly began again with --
" Oh !
yes ,-- I am quite convinced that , with very few exceptions , the sea - air always does good .
There can be no doubt of its having been of the greatest service to Dr Shirley , after his illness , last spring twelve - month .
He declares himself , that coming to Lyme for a month , did him more good than all the medicine he took ; and , that being by the sea , always makes him feel young again .
Now , I cannot help thinking it a pity that he does not live entirely by the sea .
I do think he had better leave Uppercross entirely , and fix at Lyme .
Do not you , Anne ?
Do not you agree with me , that it is the best thing he could do , both for himself and Mrs Shirley ?
She has cousins here , you know , and many acquaintance , which would make it cheerful for her , and I am sure she would be glad to get to a place where she could have medical attendance at hand , in case of his having another seizure .
Indeed I think it quite melancholy to have such excellent people as Dr and Mrs Shirley , who have been doing good all their lives , wearing out their last days in a place like Uppercross , where , excepting our family , they seem shut out from all the world .
I wish his friends would propose it to him .
I really think they ought .
And , as to procuring a dispensation , there could be no difficulty at his time of life , and with his character .
My only doubt is , whether anything could persuade him to leave his parish .
He is so very strict and scrupulous in his notions ; over - scrupulous I must say .
Do not you think , Anne , it is being over - scrupulous ?
Do not you think it is quite a mistaken point of conscience , when a clergyman sacrifices his health for the sake of duties , which may be just as well performed by another person ?
And at Lyme too , only seventeen miles off , he would be near enough to hear , if people thought there was anything to complain of ."
Anne smiled more than once to herself during this speech , and entered into the subject , as ready to do good by entering into the feelings of a young lady as of a young man , though here it was good of a lower standard , for what could be offered but general acquiescence ?
She said all that was reasonable and proper on the business ; felt the claims of Dr Shirley to repose as she ought ; saw how very desirable it was that he should have some active , respectable young man , as a resident curate , and was even courteous enough to hint at the advantage of such resident curate ' s being married .
" I wish ," said Henrietta , very well pleased with her companion , " I wish Lady Russell lived at Uppercross , and were intimate with Dr Shirley .
I have always heard of Lady Russell as a woman of the greatest influence with everybody !
I always look upon her as able to persuade a person to anything !
I am afraid of her , as I have told you before , quite afraid of her , because she is so very clever ; but I respect her amazingly , and wish we had such a neighbour at Uppercross ."
Anne was amused by Henrietta ' s manner of being grateful , and amused also that the course of events and the new interests of Henrietta ' s views should have placed her friend at all in favour with any of the Musgrove family ; she had only time , however , for a general answer , and a wish that such another woman were at Uppercross , before all subjects suddenly ceased , on seeing Louisa and Captain Wentworth coming towards them .
They came also for a stroll till breakfast was likely to be ready ; but Louisa recollecting , immediately afterwards that she had something to procure at a shop , invited them all to go back with her into the town .
They were all at her disposal .
When they came to the steps , leading upwards from the beach , a gentleman , at the same moment preparing to come down , politely drew back , and stopped to give them way .
They ascended and passed him ; and as they passed , Anne ' s face caught his eye , and he looked at her with a degree of earnest admiration , which she could not be insensible of .
She was looking remarkably well ; her very regular , very pretty features , having the bloom and freshness of youth restored by the fine wind which had been blowing on her complexion , and by the animation of eye which it had also produced .
It was evident that the gentleman , ( completely a gentleman in manner ) admired her exceedingly .
Captain Wentworth looked round at her instantly in a way which shewed his noticing of it .
He gave her a momentary glance , a glance of brightness , which seemed to say , " That man is struck with you , and even I , at this moment , see something like Anne Elliot again ."
After attending Louisa through her business , and loitering about a little longer , they returned to the inn ; and Anne , in passing afterwards quickly from her own chamber to their dining - room , had nearly run against the very same gentleman , as he came out of an adjoining apartment .
She had before conjectured him to be a stranger like themselves , and determined that a well - looking groom , who was strolling about near the two inns as they came back , should be his servant .
Both master and man being in mourning assisted the idea .
It was now proved that he belonged to the same inn as themselves ; and this second meeting , short as it was , also proved again by the gentleman ' s looks , that he thought hers very lovely , and by the readiness and propriety of his apologies , that he was a man of exceedingly good manners .
He seemed about thirty , and though not handsome , had an agreeable person .
Anne felt that she should like to know who he was .
They had nearly done breakfast , when the sound of a carriage , ( almost the first they had heard since entering Lyme ) drew half the party to the window .
It was a gentleman ' s carriage , a curricle , but only coming round from the stable - yard to the front door ; somebody must be going away .
It was driven by a servant in mourning .
The word curricle made Charles Musgrove jump up that he might compare it with his own ; the servant in mourning roused Anne ' s curiosity , and the whole six were collected to look , by the time the owner of the curricle was to be seen issuing from the door amidst the bows and civilities of the household , and taking his seat , to drive off .
" Ah !"
cried Captain Wentworth , instantly , and with half a glance at Anne , " it is the very man we passed ."
The Miss Musgroves agreed to it ; and having all kindly watched him as far up the hill as they could , they returned to the breakfast table .
The waiter came into the room soon afterwards .
" Pray ," said Captain Wentworth , immediately , " can you tell us the name of the gentleman who is just gone away ?"
" Yes , Sir , a Mr Elliot , a gentleman of large fortune , came in last night from Sidmouth .
Dare say you heard the carriage , sir , while you were at dinner ; and going on now for Crewkherne , in his way to Bath and London ."
" Elliot !"
Many had looked on each other , and many had repeated the name , before all this had been got through , even by the smart rapidity of a waiter .
" Bless me !"
cried Mary ; " it must be our cousin ; it must be our Mr Elliot , it must , indeed !
Charles , Anne , must not it ?
In mourning , you see , just as our Mr Elliot must be .
How very extraordinary !
In the very same inn with us !
Anne , must not it be our Mr Elliot ?
my father ' s next heir ?
Pray sir ," turning to the waiter , " did not you hear , did not his servant say whether he belonged to the Kellynch family ?"
" No , ma ' am , he did not mention no particular family ; but he said his master was a very rich gentleman , and would be a baronight some day ."
" There !
you see !"
cried Mary in an ecstasy , " just as I said !
Heir to Sir Walter Elliot !
I was sure that would come out , if it was so .
Depend upon it , that is a circumstance which his servants take care to publish , wherever he goes .
But , Anne , only conceive how extraordinary !
I wish I had looked at him more .
I wish we had been aware in time , who it was , that he might have been introduced to us .
What a pity that we should not have been introduced to each other !
Do you think he had the Elliot countenance ?
I hardly looked at him , I was looking at the horses ; but I think he had something of the Elliot countenance , I wonder the arms did not strike me !
Oh !
the great - coat was hanging over the panel , and hid the arms , so it did ; otherwise , I am sure , I should have observed them , and the livery too ; if the servant had not been in mourning , one should have known him by the livery ."
" Putting all these very extraordinary circumstances together ," said Captain Wentworth , " we must consider it to be the arrangement of Providence , that you should not be introduced to your cousin ."
When she could command Mary ' s attention , Anne quietly tried to convince her that their father and Mr Elliot had not , for many years , been on such terms as to make the power of attempting an introduction at all desirable .
At the same time , however , it was a secret gratification to herself to have seen her cousin , and to know that the future owner of Kellynch was undoubtedly a gentleman , and had an air of good sense .
She would not , upon any account , mention her having met with him the second time ; luckily Mary did not much attend to their having passed close by him in their earlier walk , but she would have felt quite ill - used by Anne ' s having actually run against him in the passage , and received his very polite excuses , while she had never been near him at all ; no , that cousinly little interview must remain a perfect secret .
" Of course ," said Mary , " you will mention our seeing Mr Elliot , the next time you write to Bath .
I think my father certainly ought to hear of it ; do mention all about him ."
Anne avoided a direct reply , but it was just the circumstance which she considered as not merely unnecessary to be communicated , but as what ought to be suppressed .
The offence which had been given her father , many years back , she knew ; Elizabeth ' s particular share in it she suspected ; and that Mr Elliot ' s idea always produced irritation in both was beyond a doubt .
Mary never wrote to Bath herself ; all the toil of keeping up a slow and unsatisfactory correspondence with Elizabeth fell on Anne .
Breakfast had not been long over , when they were joined by Captain and Mrs Harville and Captain Benwick ; with whom they had appointed to take their last walk about Lyme .
They ought to be setting off for Uppercross by one , and in the mean while were to be all together , and out of doors as long as they could .
Anne found Captain Benwick getting near her , as soon as they were all fairly in the street .
Their conversation the preceding evening did not disincline him to seek her again ; and they walked together some time , talking as before of Mr Scott and Lord Byron , and still as unable as before , and as unable as any other two readers , to think exactly alike of the merits of either , till something occasioned an almost general change amongst their party , and instead of Captain Benwick , she had Captain Harville by her side .
" Miss Elliot ," said he , speaking rather low , " you have done a good deed in making that poor fellow talk so much .
I wish he could have such company oftener .
It is bad for him , I know , to be shut up as he is ; but what can we do ?
We cannot part ."
" No ," said Anne , " that I can easily believe to be impossible ; but in time , perhaps -- we know what time does in every case of affliction , and you must remember , Captain Harville , that your friend may yet be called a young mourner -- only last summer , I understand ."
" Ay , true enough ," ( with a deep sigh ) " only June ."
" And not known to him , perhaps , so soon ."
" Not till the first week of August , when he came home from the Cape , just made into the Grappler .
I was at Plymouth dreading to hear of him ; he sent in letters , but the Grappler was under orders for Portsmouth .
There the news must follow him , but who was to tell it ?
not I . I would as soon have been run up to the yard - arm .
Nobody could do it , but that good fellow " ( pointing to Captain Wentworth .)
" The Laconia had come into Plymouth the week before ; no danger of her being sent to sea again .
He stood his chance for the rest ; wrote up for leave of absence , but without waiting the return , travelled night and day till he got to Portsmouth , rowed off to the Grappler that instant , and never left the poor fellow for a week .
That ' s what he did , and nobody else could have saved poor James .
You may think , Miss Elliot , whether he is dear to us !"
Anne did think on the question with perfect decision , and said as much in reply as her own feeling could accomplish , or as his seemed able to bear , for he was too much affected to renew the subject , and when he spoke again , it was of something totally different .
Mrs Harville ' s giving it as her opinion that her husband would have quite walking enough by the time he reached home , determined the direction of all the party in what was to be their last walk ; they would accompany them to their door , and then return and set off themselves .
By all their calculations there was just time for this ; but as they drew near the Cobb , there was such a general wish to walk along it once more , all were so inclined , and Louisa soon grew so determined , that the difference of a quarter of an hour , it was found , would be no difference at all ; so with all the kind leave - taking , and all the kind interchange of invitations and promises which may be imagined , they parted from Captain and Mrs Harville at their own door , and still accompanied by Captain Benwick , who seemed to cling to them to the last , proceeded to make the proper adieus to the Cobb .
Anne found Captain Benwick again drawing near her .
Lord Byron ' s " dark blue seas " could not fail of being brought forward by their present view , and she gladly gave him all her attention as long as attention was possible .
It was soon drawn , perforce another way .
There was too much wind to make the high part of the new Cobb pleasant for the ladies , and they agreed to get down the steps to the lower , and all were contented to pass quietly and carefully down the steep flight , excepting Louisa ; she must be jumped down them by Captain Wentworth .
In all their walks , he had had to jump her from the stiles ; the sensation was delightful to her .
The hardness of the pavement for her feet , made him less willing upon the present occasion ; he did it , however .
She was safely down , and instantly , to show her enjoyment , ran up the steps to be jumped down again .
He advised her against it , thought the jar too great ; but no , he reasoned and talked in vain , she smiled and said , " I am determined I will :" he put out his hands ; she was too precipitate by half a second , she fell on the pavement on the Lower Cobb , and was taken up lifeless !
There was no wound , no blood , no visible bruise ; but her eyes were closed , she breathed not , her face was like death .
The horror of the moment to all who stood around !
Captain Wentworth , who had caught her up , knelt with her in his arms , looking on her with a face as pallid as her own , in an agony of silence .
" She is dead !
she is dead !"
screamed Mary , catching hold of her husband , and contributing with his own horror to make him immoveable ; and in another moment , Henrietta , sinking under the conviction , lost her senses too , and would have fallen on the steps , but for Captain Benwick and Anne , who caught and supported her between them .
" Is there no one to help me ?"
were the first words which burst from Captain Wentworth , in a tone of despair , and as if all his own strength were gone .
" Go to him , go to him ," cried Anne , " for heaven ' s sake go to him .
I can support her myself .
Leave me , and go to him .
Rub her hands , rub her temples ; here are salts ; take them , take them ."
Captain Benwick obeyed , and Charles at the same moment , disengaging himself from his wife , they were both with him ; and Louisa was raised up and supported more firmly between them , and everything was done that Anne had prompted , but in vain ; while Captain Wentworth , staggering against the wall for his support , exclaimed in the bitterest agony --
" Oh God !
her father and mother !"
" A surgeon !"
said Anne .
He caught the word ; it seemed to rouse him at once , and saying only -- " True , true , a surgeon this instant ," was darting away , when Anne eagerly suggested --
" Captain Benwick , would not it be better for Captain Benwick ?
He knows where a surgeon is to be found ."
Every one capable of thinking felt the advantage of the idea , and in a moment ( it was all done in rapid moments ) Captain Benwick had resigned the poor corpse - like figure entirely to the brother ' s care , and was off for the town with the utmost rapidity .
As to the wretched party left behind , it could scarcely be said which of the three , who were completely rational , was suffering most : Captain Wentworth , Anne , or Charles , who , really a very affectionate brother , hung over Louisa with sobs of grief , and could only turn his eyes from one sister , to see the other in a state as insensible , or to witness the hysterical agitations of his wife , calling on him for help which he could not give .
Anne , attending with all the strength and zeal , and thought , which instinct supplied , to Henrietta , still tried , at intervals , to suggest comfort to the others , tried to quiet Mary , to animate Charles , to assuage the feelings of Captain Wentworth .
Both seemed to look to her for directions .
" Anne , Anne ," cried Charles , " What is to be done next ?
What , in heaven ' s name , is to be done next ?"
Captain Wentworth ' s eyes were also turned towards her .
" Had not she better be carried to the inn ?
Yes , I am sure : carry her gently to the inn ."
" Yes , yes , to the inn ," repeated Captain Wentworth , comparatively collected , and eager to be doing something .
" I will carry her myself .
Musgrove , take care of the others ."
By this time the report of the accident had spread among the workmen and boatmen about the Cobb , and many were collected near them , to be useful if wanted , at any rate , to enjoy the sight of a dead young lady , nay , two dead young ladies , for it proved twice as fine as the first report .
To some of the best - looking of these good people Henrietta was consigned , for , though partially revived , she was quite helpless ; and in this manner , Anne walking by her side , and Charles attending to his wife , they set forward , treading back with feelings unutterable , the ground , which so lately , so very lately , and so light of heart , they had passed along .
They were not off the Cobb , before the Harvilles met them .
Captain Benwick had been seen flying by their house , with a countenance which showed something to be wrong ; and they had set off immediately , informed and directed as they passed , towards the spot .
Shocked as Captain Harville was , he brought senses and nerves that could be instantly useful ; and a look between him and his wife decided what was to be done .
She must be taken to their house ; all must go to their house ; and await the surgeon ' s arrival there .
They would not listen to scruples : he was obeyed ; they were all beneath his roof ; and while Louisa , under Mrs Harville ' s direction , was conveyed up stairs , and given possession of her own bed , assistance , cordials , restoratives were supplied by her husband to all who needed them .
Louisa had once opened her eyes , but soon closed them again , without apparent consciousness .
This had been a proof of life , however , of service to her sister ; and Henrietta , though perfectly incapable of being in the same room with Louisa , was kept , by the agitation of hope and fear , from a return of her own insensibility .
Mary , too , was growing calmer .
The surgeon was with them almost before it had seemed possible .
They were sick with horror , while he examined ; but he was not hopeless .
The head had received a severe contusion , but he had seen greater injuries recovered from : he was by no means hopeless ; he spoke cheerfully .
That he did not regard it as a desperate case , that he did not say a few hours must end it , was at first felt , beyond the hope of most ; and the ecstasy of such a reprieve , the rejoicing , deep and silent , after a few fervent ejaculations of gratitude to Heaven had been offered , may be conceived .
The tone , the look , with which " Thank God !"
was uttered by Captain Wentworth , Anne was sure could never be forgotten by her ; nor the sight of him afterwards , as he sat near a table , leaning over it with folded arms and face concealed , as if overpowered by the various feelings of his soul , and trying by prayer and reflection to calm them .
Louisa ' s limbs had escaped .
There was no injury but to the head .
It now became necessary for the party to consider what was best to be done , as to their general situation .
They were now able to speak to each other and consult .
That Louisa must remain where she was , however distressing to her friends to be involving the Harvilles in such trouble , did not admit a doubt .
Her removal was impossible .
The Harvilles silenced all scruples ; and , as much as they could , all gratitude .
They had looked forward and arranged everything before the others began to reflect .
Captain Benwick must give up his room to them , and get another bed elsewhere ; and the whole was settled .
They were only concerned that the house could accommodate no more ; and yet perhaps , by " putting the children away in the maid ' s room , or swinging a cot somewhere ," they could hardly bear to think of not finding room for two or three besides , supposing they might wish to stay ; though , with regard to any attendance on Miss Musgrove , there need not be the least uneasiness in leaving her to Mrs Harville ' s care entirely .
Mrs Harville was a very experienced nurse , and her nursery - maid , who had lived with her long , and gone about with her everywhere , was just such another .
Between these two , she could want no possible attendance by day or night .
And all this was said with a truth and sincerity of feeling irresistible .
Charles , Henrietta , and Captain Wentworth were the three in consultation , and for a little while it was only an interchange of perplexity and terror .
" Uppercross , the necessity of some one ' s going to Uppercross ; the news to be conveyed ; how it could be broken to Mr and Mrs Musgrove ; the lateness of the morning ; an hour already gone since they ought to have been off ; the impossibility of being in tolerable time ."
At first , they were capable of nothing more to the purpose than such exclamations ; but , after a while , Captain Wentworth , exerting himself , said --
" We must be decided , and without the loss of another minute .
Every minute is valuable .
Some one must resolve on being off for Uppercross instantly .
Musgrove , either you or I must go ."
Charles agreed , but declared his resolution of not going away .
He would be as little incumbrance as possible to Captain and Mrs Harville ; but as to leaving his sister in such a state , he neither ought , nor would .
So far it was decided ; and Henrietta at first declared the same .
She , however , was soon persuaded to think differently .
The usefulness of her staying !
She who had not been able to remain in Louisa ' s room , or to look at her , without sufferings which made her worse than helpless !
She was forced to acknowledge that she could do no good , yet was still unwilling to be away , till , touched by the thought of her father and mother , she gave it up ; she consented , she was anxious to be at home .
The plan had reached this point , when Anne , coming quietly down from Louisa ' s room , could not but hear what followed , for the parlour door was open .
" Then it is settled , Musgrove ," cried Captain Wentworth , " that you stay , and that I take care of your sister home .
But as to the rest , as to the others , if one stays to assist Mrs Harville , I think it need be only one .
Mrs Charles Musgrove will , of course , wish to get back to her children ; but if Anne will stay , no one so proper , so capable as Anne ."
She paused a moment to recover from the emotion of hearing herself so spoken of .
The other two warmly agreed with what he said , and she then appeared .
" You will stay , I am sure ; you will stay and nurse her ;" cried he , turning to her and speaking with a glow , and yet a gentleness , which seemed almost restoring the past .
She coloured deeply , and he recollected himself and moved away .
She expressed herself most willing , ready , happy to remain .
" It was what she had been thinking of , and wishing to be allowed to do .
A bed on the floor in Louisa ' s room would be sufficient for her , if Mrs Harville would but think so ."
One thing more , and all seemed arranged .
Though it was rather desirable that Mr and Mrs Musgrove should be previously alarmed by some share of delay ; yet the time required by the Uppercross horses to take them back , would be a dreadful extension of suspense ; and Captain Wentworth proposed , and Charles Musgrove agreed , that it would be much better for him to take a chaise from the inn , and leave Mr Musgrove ' s carriage and horses to be sent home the next morning early , when there would be the farther advantage of sending an account of Louisa ' s night .
Captain Wentworth now hurried off to get everything ready on his part , and to be soon followed by the two ladies .
When the plan was made known to Mary , however , there was an end of all peace in it .
She was so wretched and so vehement , complained so much of injustice in being expected to go away instead of Anne ; Anne , who was nothing to Louisa , while she was her sister , and had the best right to stay in Henrietta ' s stead !
Why was not she to be as useful as Anne ?
And to go home without Charles , too , without her husband !
No , it was too unkind .
And in short , she said more than her husband could long withstand , and as none of the others could oppose when he gave way , there was no help for it ; the change of Mary for Anne was inevitable .
Anne had never submitted more reluctantly to the jealous and ill - judging claims of Mary ; but so it must be , and they set off for the town , Charles taking care of his sister , and Captain Benwick attending to her .
She gave a moment ' s recollection , as they hurried along , to the little circumstances which the same spots had witnessed earlier in the morning .
There she had listened to Henrietta ' s schemes for Dr Shirley ' s leaving Uppercross ; farther on , she had first seen Mr Elliot ; a moment seemed all that could now be given to any one but Louisa , or those who were wrapt up in her welfare .
Captain Benwick was most considerately attentive to her ; and , united as they all seemed by the distress of the day , she felt an increasing degree of good - will towards him , and a pleasure even in thinking that it might , perhaps , be the occasion of continuing their acquaintance .
Captain Wentworth was on the watch for them , and a chaise and four in waiting , stationed for their convenience in the lowest part of the street ; but his evident surprise and vexation at the substitution of one sister for the other , the change in his countenance , the astonishment , the expressions begun and suppressed , with which Charles was listened to , made but a mortifying reception of Anne ; or must at least convince her that she was valued only as she could be useful to Louisa .
She endeavoured to be composed , and to be just .
Without emulating the feelings of an Emma towards her Henry , she would have attended on Louisa with a zeal above the common claims of regard , for his sake ; and she hoped he would not long be so unjust as to suppose she would shrink unnecessarily from the office of a friend .
In the mean while she was in the carriage .
He had handed them both in , and placed himself between them ; and in this manner , under these circumstances , full of astonishment and emotion to Anne , she quitted Lyme .
How the long stage would pass ; how it was to affect their manners ; what was to be their sort of intercourse , she could not foresee .
It was all quite natural , however .
He was devoted to Henrietta ; always turning towards her ; and when he spoke at all , always with the view of supporting her hopes and raising her spirits .
In general , his voice and manner were studiously calm .
To spare Henrietta from agitation seemed the governing principle .
Once only , when she had been grieving over the last ill - judged , ill - fated walk to the Cobb , bitterly lamenting that it ever had been thought of , he burst forth , as if wholly overcome --
" Don ' t talk of it , don ' t talk of it ," he cried .
" Oh God !
that I had not given way to her at the fatal moment !
Had I done as I ought !
But so eager and so resolute !
Dear , sweet Louisa !"
Anne wondered whether it ever occurred to him now , to question the justness of his own previous opinion as to the universal felicity and advantage of firmness of character ; and whether it might not strike him that , like all other qualities of the mind , it should have its proportions and limits .
She thought it could scarcely escape him to feel that a persuadable temper might sometimes be as much in favour of happiness as a very resolute character .
They got on fast .
Anne was astonished to recognise the same hills and the same objects so soon .
Their actual speed , heightened by some dread of the conclusion , made the road appear but half as long as on the day before .
It was growing quite dusk , however , before they were in the neighbourhood of Uppercross , and there had been total silence among them for some time , Henrietta leaning back in the corner , with a shawl over her face , giving the hope of her having cried herself to sleep ; when , as they were going up their last hill , Anne found herself all at once addressed by Captain Wentworth .
In a low , cautious voice , he said : --
" I have been considering what we had best do .
She must not appear at first .
She could not stand it .
I have been thinking whether you had not better remain in the carriage with her , while I go in and break it to Mr and Mrs Musgrove .
Do you think this is a good plan ?"
She did : he was satisfied , and said no more .
But the remembrance of the appeal remained a pleasure to her , as a proof of friendship , and of deference for her judgement , a great pleasure ; and when it became a sort of parting proof , its value did not lessen .
When the distressing communication at Uppercross was over , and he had seen the father and mother quite as composed as could be hoped , and the daughter all the better for being with them , he announced his intention of returning in the same carriage to Lyme ; and when the horses were baited , he was off .
( End of volume one .)
Chapter 13
The remainder of Anne ' s time at Uppercross , comprehending only two days , was spent entirely at the Mansion House ; and she had the satisfaction of knowing herself extremely useful there , both as an immediate companion , and as assisting in all those arrangements for the future , which , in Mr and Mrs Musgrove ' s distressed state of spirits , would have been difficulties .
They had an early account from Lyme the next morning .
Louisa was much the same .
No symptoms worse than before had appeared .
Charles came a few hours afterwards , to bring a later and more particular account .
He was tolerably cheerful .
A speedy cure must not be hoped , but everything was going on as well as the nature of the case admitted .
In speaking of the Harvilles , he seemed unable to satisfy his own sense of their kindness , especially of Mrs Harville ' s exertions as a nurse .
" She really left nothing for Mary to do .
He and Mary had been persuaded to go early to their inn last night .
Mary had been hysterical again this morning .
When he came away , she was going to walk out with Captain Benwick , which , he hoped , would do her good .
He almost wished she had been prevailed on to come home the day before ; but the truth was , that Mrs Harville left nothing for anybody to do ."
Charles was to return to Lyme the same afternoon , and his father had at first half a mind to go with him , but the ladies could not consent .
It would be going only to multiply trouble to the others , and increase his own distress ; and a much better scheme followed and was acted upon .
A chaise was sent for from Crewkherne , and Charles conveyed back a far more useful person in the old nursery - maid of the family , one who having brought up all the children , and seen the very last , the lingering and long - petted Master Harry , sent to school after his brothers , was now living in her deserted nursery to mend stockings and dress all the blains and bruises she could get near her , and who , consequently , was only too happy in being allowed to go and help nurse dear Miss Louisa .
Vague wishes of getting Sarah thither , had occurred before to Mrs Musgrove and Henrietta ; but without Anne , it would hardly have been resolved on , and found practicable so soon .
They were indebted , the next day , to Charles Hayter , for all the minute knowledge of Louisa , which it was so essential to obtain every twenty - four hours .
He made it his business to go to Lyme , and his account was still encouraging .
The intervals of sense and consciousness were believed to be stronger .
Every report agreed in Captain Wentworth ' s appearing fixed in Lyme .
Anne was to leave them on the morrow , an event which they all dreaded .
" What should they do without her ?
They were wretched comforters for one another ."
And so much was said in this way , that Anne thought she could not do better than impart among them the general inclination to which she was privy , and persuaded them all to go to Lyme at once .
She had little difficulty ; it was soon determined that they would go ; go to - morrow , fix themselves at the inn , or get into lodgings , as it suited , and there remain till dear Louisa could be moved .
They must be taking off some trouble from the good people she was with ; they might at least relieve Mrs Harville from the care of her own children ; and in short , they were so happy in the decision , that Anne was delighted with what she had done , and felt that she could not spend her last morning at Uppercross better than in assisting their preparations , and sending them off at an early hour , though her being left to the solitary range of the house was the consequence .
She was the last , excepting the little boys at the cottage , she was the very last , the only remaining one of all that had filled and animated both houses , of all that had given Uppercross its cheerful character .
A few days had made a change indeed !
If Louisa recovered , it would all be well again .
More than former happiness would be restored .
There could not be a doubt , to her mind there was none , of what would follow her recovery .
A few months hence , and the room now so deserted , occupied but by her silent , pensive self , might be filled again with all that was happy and gay , all that was glowing and bright in prosperous love , all that was most unlike Anne Elliot !
An hour ' s complete leisure for such reflections as these , on a dark November day , a small thick rain almost blotting out the very few objects ever to be discerned from the windows , was enough to make the sound of Lady Russell ' s carriage exceedingly welcome ; and yet , though desirous to be gone , she could not quit the Mansion House , or look an adieu to the Cottage , with its black , dripping and comfortless veranda , or even notice through the misty glasses the last humble tenements of the village , without a saddened heart .
Scenes had passed in Uppercross which made it precious .
It stood the record of many sensations of pain , once severe , but now softened ; and of some instances of relenting feeling , some breathings of friendship and reconciliation , which could never be looked for again , and which could never cease to be dear .
She left it all behind her , all but the recollection that such things had been .
Anne had never entered Kellynch since her quitting Lady Russell ' s house in September .
It had not been necessary , and the few occasions of its being possible for her to go to the Hall she had contrived to evade and escape from .
Her first return was to resume her place in the modern and elegant apartments of the Lodge , and to gladden the eyes of its mistress .
There was some anxiety mixed with Lady Russell ' s joy in meeting her .
She knew who had been frequenting Uppercross .
But happily , either Anne was improved in plumpness and looks , or Lady Russell fancied her so ; and Anne , in receiving her compliments on the occasion , had the amusement of connecting them with the silent admiration of her cousin , and of hoping that she was to be blessed with a second spring of youth and beauty .
When they came to converse , she was soon sensible of some mental change .
The subjects of which her heart had been full on leaving Kellynch , and which she had felt slighted , and been compelled to smother among the Musgroves , were now become but of secondary interest .
She had lately lost sight even of her father and sister and Bath .
Their concerns had been sunk under those of Uppercross ; and when Lady Russell reverted to their former hopes and fears , and spoke her satisfaction in the house in Camden Place , which had been taken , and her regret that Mrs Clay should still be with them , Anne would have been ashamed to have it known how much more she was thinking of Lyme and Louisa Musgrove , and all her acquaintance there ; how much more interesting to her was the home and the friendship of the Harvilles and Captain Benwick , than her own father ' s house in Camden Place , or her own sister ' s intimacy with Mrs Clay .
She was actually forced to exert herself to meet Lady Russell with anything like the appearance of equal solicitude , on topics which had by nature the first claim on her .
There was a little awkwardness at first in their discourse on another subject .
They must speak of the accident at Lyme .
Lady Russell had not been arrived five minutes the day before , when a full account of the whole had burst on her ; but still it must be talked of , she must make enquiries , she must regret the imprudence , lament the result , and Captain Wentworth ' s name must be mentioned by both .
Anne was conscious of not doing it so well as Lady Russell .
She could not speak the name , and look straight forward to Lady Russell ' s eye , till she had adopted the expedient of telling her briefly what she thought of the attachment between him and Louisa .
When this was told , his name distressed her no longer .
Lady Russell had only to listen composedly , and wish them happy , but internally her heart revelled in angry pleasure , in pleased contempt , that the man who at twenty - three had seemed to understand somewhat of the value of an Anne Elliot , should , eight years afterwards , be charmed by a Louisa Musgrove .
The first three or four days passed most quietly , with no circumstance to mark them excepting the receipt of a note or two from Lyme , which found their way to Anne , she could not tell how , and brought a rather improving account of Louisa .
At the end of that period , Lady Russell ' s politeness could repose no longer , and the fainter self - threatenings of the past became in a decided tone , " I must call on Mrs Croft ; I really must call upon her soon .
Anne , have you courage to go with me , and pay a visit in that house ?
It will be some trial to us both ."
Anne did not shrink from it ; on the contrary , she truly felt as she said , in observing --
" I think you are very likely to suffer the most of the two ; your feelings are less reconciled to the change than mine .
By remaining in the neighbourhood , I am become inured to it ."
She could have said more on the subject ; for she had in fact so high an opinion of the Crofts , and considered her father so very fortunate in his tenants , felt the parish to be so sure of a good example , and the poor of the best attention and relief , that however sorry and ashamed for the necessity of the removal , she could not but in conscience feel that they were gone who deserved not to stay , and that Kellynch Hall had passed into better hands than its owners '.
These convictions must unquestionably have their own pain , and severe was its kind ; but they precluded that pain which Lady Russell would suffer in entering the house again , and returning through the well - known apartments .
In such moments Anne had no power of saying to herself , " These rooms ought to belong only to us .
Oh , how fallen in their destination !
How unworthily occupied !
An ancient family to be so driven away !
Strangers filling their place !"
No , except when she thought of her mother , and remembered where she had been used to sit and preside , she had no sigh of that description to heave .
Mrs Croft always met her with a kindness which gave her the pleasure of fancying herself a favourite , and on the present occasion , receiving her in that house , there was particular attention .
The sad accident at Lyme was soon the prevailing topic , and on comparing their latest accounts of the invalid , it appeared that each lady dated her intelligence from the same hour of yestermorn ; that Captain Wentworth had been in Kellynch yesterday ( the first time since the accident ), had brought Anne the last note , which she had not been able to trace the exact steps of ; had staid a few hours and then returned again to Lyme , and without any present intention of quitting it any more .
He had enquired after her , she found , particularly ; had expressed his hope of Miss Elliot ' s not being the worse for her exertions , and had spoken of those exertions as great .
This was handsome , and gave her more pleasure than almost anything else could have done .
As to the sad catastrophe itself , it could be canvassed only in one style by a couple of steady , sensible women , whose judgements had to work on ascertained events ; and it was perfectly decided that it had been the consequence of much thoughtlessness and much imprudence ; that its effects were most alarming , and that it was frightful to think , how long Miss Musgrove ' s recovery might yet be doubtful , and how liable she would still remain to suffer from the concussion hereafter !
The Admiral wound it up summarily by exclaiming --
" Ay , a very bad business indeed .
A new sort of way this , for a young fellow to be making love , by breaking his mistress ' s head , is not it , Miss Elliot ?
This is breaking a head and giving a plaster , truly !"
Admiral Croft ' s manners were not quite of the tone to suit Lady Russell , but they delighted Anne .
His goodness of heart and simplicity of character were irresistible .
" Now , this must be very bad for you ," said he , suddenly rousing from a little reverie , " to be coming and finding us here .
I had not recollected it before , I declare , but it must be very bad .
But now , do not stand upon ceremony .
Get up and go over all the rooms in the house if you like it ."
" Another time , Sir , I thank you , not now ."
" Well , whenever it suits you .
You can slip in from the shrubbery at any time ; and there you will find we keep our umbrellas hanging up by that door .
A good place is not it ?
But ," ( checking himself ), " you will not think it a good place , for yours were always kept in the butler ' s room .
Ay , so it always is , I believe .
One man ' s ways may be as good as another ' s , but we all like our own best .
And so you must judge for yourself , whether it would be better for you to go about the house or not ."
Anne , finding she might decline it , did so , very gratefully .
" We have made very few changes either ," continued the Admiral , after thinking a moment .
" Very few .
We told you about the laundry - door , at Uppercross .
That has been a very great improvement .
The wonder was , how any family upon earth could bear with the inconvenience of its opening as it did , so long !
You will tell Sir Walter what we have done , and that Mr Shepherd thinks it the greatest improvement the house ever had .
Indeed , I must do ourselves the justice to say , that the few alterations we have made have been all very much for the better .
My wife should have the credit of them , however .
I have done very little besides sending away some of the large looking - glasses from my dressing - room , which was your father ' s .
A very good man , and very much the gentleman I am sure : but I should think , Miss Elliot ," ( looking with serious reflection ), " I should think he must be rather a dressy man for his time of life .
Such a number of looking - glasses !
oh Lord !
there was no getting away from one ' s self .
So I got Sophy to lend me a hand , and we soon shifted their quarters ; and now I am quite snug , with my little shaving glass in one corner , and another great thing that I never go near ."
Anne , amused in spite of herself , was rather distressed for an answer , and the Admiral , fearing he might not have been civil enough , took up the subject again , to say --
" The next time you write to your good father , Miss Elliot , pray give him my compliments and Mrs Croft ' s , and say that we are settled here quite to our liking , and have no fault at all to find with the place .
The breakfast - room chimney smokes a little , I grant you , but it is only when the wind is due north and blows hard , which may not happen three times a winter .
And take it altogether , now that we have been into most of the houses hereabouts and can judge , there is not one that we like better than this .
Pray say so , with my compliments .
He will be glad to hear it ."
Lady Russell and Mrs Croft were very well pleased with each other : but the acquaintance which this visit began was fated not to proceed far at present ; for when it was returned , the Crofts announced themselves to be going away for a few weeks , to visit their connexions in the north of the county , and probably might not be at home again before Lady Russell would be removing to Bath .
So ended all danger to Anne of meeting Captain Wentworth at Kellynch Hall , or of seeing him in company with her friend .
Everything was safe enough , and she smiled over the many anxious feelings she had wasted on the subject .
Chapter 14
Though Charles and Mary had remained at Lyme much longer after Mr and Mrs Musgrove ' s going than Anne conceived they could have been at all wanted , they were yet the first of the family to be at home again ; and as soon as possible after their return to Uppercross they drove over to the Lodge .
They had left Louisa beginning to sit up ; but her head , though clear , was exceedingly weak , and her nerves susceptible to the highest extreme of tenderness ; and though she might be pronounced to be altogether doing very well , it was still impossible to say when she might be able to bear the removal home ; and her father and mother , who must return in time to receive their younger children for the Christmas holidays , had hardly a hope of being allowed to bring her with them .
They had been all in lodgings together .
Mrs Musgrove had got Mrs Harville ' s children away as much as she could , every possible supply from Uppercross had been furnished , to lighten the inconvenience to the Harvilles , while the Harvilles had been wanting them to come to dinner every day ; and in short , it seemed to have been only a struggle on each side as to which should be most disinterested and hospitable .
Mary had had her evils ; but upon the whole , as was evident by her staying so long , she had found more to enjoy than to suffer .
Charles Hayter had been at Lyme oftener than suited her ; and when they dined with the Harvilles there had been only a maid - servant to wait , and at first Mrs Harville had always given Mrs Musgrove precedence ; but then , she had received so very handsome an apology from her on finding out whose daughter she was , and there had been so much going on every day , there had been so many walks between their lodgings and the Harvilles , and she had got books from the library , and changed them so often , that the balance had certainly been much in favour of Lyme .
She had been taken to Charmouth too , and she had bathed , and she had gone to church , and there were a great many more people to look at in the church at Lyme than at Uppercross ; and all this , joined to the sense of being so very useful , had made really an agreeable fortnight .
Anne enquired after Captain Benwick , Mary ' s face was clouded directly .
Charles laughed .
" Oh !
Captain Benwick is very well , I believe , but he is a very odd young man .
I do not know what he would be at .
We asked him to come home with us for a day or two : Charles undertook to give him some shooting , and he seemed quite delighted , and , for my part , I thought it was all settled ; when behold !
on Tuesday night , he made a very awkward sort of excuse ; ` he never shot ' and he had ` been quite misunderstood ,' and he had promised this and he had promised that , and the end of it was , I found , that he did not mean to come .
I suppose he was afraid of finding it dull ; but upon my word I should have thought we were lively enough at the Cottage for such a heart - broken man as Captain Benwick ."
Charles laughed again and said , " Now Mary , you know very well how it really was .
It was all your doing ," ( turning to Anne .)
" He fancied that if he went with us , he should find you close by : he fancied everybody to be living in Uppercross ; and when he discovered that Lady Russell lived three miles off , his heart failed him , and he had not courage to come .
That is the fact , upon my honour , Mary knows it is ."
But Mary did not give into it very graciously , whether from not considering Captain Benwick entitled by birth and situation to be in love with an Elliot , or from not wanting to believe Anne a greater attraction to Uppercross than herself , must be left to be guessed .
Anne ' s good - will , however , was not to be lessened by what she heard .
She boldly acknowledged herself flattered , and continued her enquiries .
" Oh !
he talks of you ," cried Charles , " in such terms --" Mary interrupted him .
" I declare , Charles , I never heard him mention Anne twice all the time I was there .
I declare , Anne , he never talks of you at all ."
" No ," admitted Charles , " I do not know that he ever does , in a general way ; but however , it is a very clear thing that he admires you exceedingly .
His head is full of some books that he is reading upon your recommendation , and he wants to talk to you about them ; he has found out something or other in one of them which he thinks -- oh !
I cannot pretend to remember it , but it was something very fine -- I overheard him telling Henrietta all about it ; and then ` Miss Elliot ' was spoken of in the highest terms !
Now Mary , I declare it was so , I heard it myself , and you were in the other room .
` Elegance , sweetness , beauty .'
Oh !
there was no end of Miss Elliot ' s charms ."
" And I am sure ," cried Mary , warmly , " it was a very little to his credit , if he did .
Miss Harville only died last June .
Such a heart is very little worth having ; is it , Lady Russell ?
I am sure you will agree with me ."
" I must see Captain Benwick before I decide ," said Lady Russell , smiling .
" And that you are very likely to do very soon , I can tell you , ma ' am ," said Charles .
" Though he had not nerves for coming away with us , and setting off again afterwards to pay a formal visit here , he will make his way over to Kellynch one day by himself , you may depend on it .
I told him the distance and the road , and I told him of the church ' s being so very well worth seeing ; for as he has a taste for those sort of things , I thought that would be a good excuse , and he listened with all his understanding and soul ; and I am sure from his manner that you will have him calling here soon .
So , I give you notice , Lady Russell ."
" Any acquaintance of Anne ' s will always be welcome to me ," was Lady Russell ' s kind answer .
" Oh !
as to being Anne ' s acquaintance ," said Mary , " I think he is rather my acquaintance , for I have been seeing him every day this last fortnight ."
" Well , as your joint acquaintance , then , I shall be very happy to see Captain Benwick ."
" You will not find anything very agreeable in him , I assure you , ma ' am .
He is one of the dullest young men that ever lived .
He has walked with me , sometimes , from one end of the sands to the other , without saying a word .
He is not at all a well - bred young man .
I am sure you will not like him ."
" There we differ , Mary ," said Anne .
" I think Lady Russell would like him .
I think she would be so much pleased with his mind , that she would very soon see no deficiency in his manner ."
" So do I , Anne ," said Charles .
" I am sure Lady Russell would like him .
He is just Lady Russell ' s sort .
Give him a book , and he will read all day long ."
" Yes , that he will !"
exclaimed Mary , tauntingly .
" He will sit poring over his book , and not know when a person speaks to him , or when one drop ' s one ' s scissors , or anything that happens .
Do you think Lady Russell would like that ?"
Lady Russell could not help laughing .
" Upon my word ," said she , " I should not have supposed that my opinion of any one could have admitted of such difference of conjecture , steady and matter of fact as I may call myself .
I have really a curiosity to see the person who can give occasion to such directly opposite notions .
I wish he may be induced to call here .
And when he does , Mary , you may depend upon hearing my opinion ; but I am determined not to judge him beforehand ."
" You will not like him , I will answer for it ."
Lady Russell began talking of something else .
Mary spoke with animation of their meeting with , or rather missing , Mr Elliot so extraordinarily .
" He is a man ," said Lady Russell , " whom I have no wish to see .
His declining to be on cordial terms with the head of his family , has left a very strong impression in his disfavour with me ."
This decision checked Mary ' s eagerness , and stopped her short in the midst of the Elliot countenance .
With regard to Captain Wentworth , though Anne hazarded no enquiries , there was voluntary communication sufficient .
His spirits had been greatly recovering lately as might be expected .
As Louisa improved , he had improved , and he was now quite a different creature from what he had been the first week .
He had not seen Louisa ; and was so extremely fearful of any ill consequence to her from an interview , that he did not press for it at all ; and , on the contrary , seemed to have a plan of going away for a week or ten days , till her head was stronger .
He had talked of going down to Plymouth for a week , and wanted to persuade Captain Benwick to go with him ; but , as Charles maintained to the last , Captain Benwick seemed much more disposed to ride over to Kellynch .
There can be no doubt that Lady Russell and Anne were both occasionally thinking of Captain Benwick , from this time .
Lady Russell could not hear the door - bell without feeling that it might be his herald ; nor could Anne return from any stroll of solitary indulgence in her father ' s grounds , or any visit of charity in the village , without wondering whether she might see him or hear of him .
Captain Benwick came not , however .
He was either less disposed for it than Charles had imagined , or he was too shy ; and after giving him a week ' s indulgence , Lady Russell determined him to be unworthy of the interest which he had been beginning to excite .
The Musgroves came back to receive their happy boys and girls from school , bringing with them Mrs Harville ' s little children , to improve the noise of Uppercross , and lessen that of Lyme .
Henrietta remained with Louisa ; but all the rest of the family were again in their usual quarters .
Lady Russell and Anne paid their compliments to them once , when Anne could not but feel that Uppercross was already quite alive again .
Though neither Henrietta , nor Louisa , nor Charles Hayter , nor Captain Wentworth were there , the room presented as strong a contrast as could be wished to the last state she had seen it in .
Immediately surrounding Mrs Musgrove were the little Harvilles , whom she was sedulously guarding from the tyranny of the two children from the Cottage , expressly arrived to amuse them .
On one side was a table occupied by some chattering girls , cutting up silk and gold paper ; and on the other were tressels and trays , bending under the weight of brawn and cold pies , where riotous boys were holding high revel ; the whole completed by a roaring Christmas fire , which seemed determined to be heard , in spite of all the noise of the others .
Charles and Mary also came in , of course , during their visit , and Mr Musgrove made a point of paying his respects to Lady Russell , and sat down close to her for ten minutes , talking with a very raised voice , but from the clamour of the children on his knees , generally in vain .
It was a fine family - piece .
Anne , judging from her own temperament , would have deemed such a domestic hurricane a bad restorative of the nerves , which Louisa ' s illness must have so greatly shaken .
But Mrs Musgrove , who got Anne near her on purpose to thank her most cordially , again and again , for all her attentions to them , concluded a short recapitulation of what she had suffered herself by observing , with a happy glance round the room , that after all she had gone through , nothing was so likely to do her good as a little quiet cheerfulness at home .
Louisa was now recovering apace .
Her mother could even think of her being able to join their party at home , before her brothers and sisters went to school again .
The Harvilles had promised to come with her and stay at Uppercross , whenever she returned .
Captain Wentworth was gone , for the present , to see his brother in Shropshire .
" I hope I shall remember , in future ," said Lady Russell , as soon as they were reseated in the carriage , " not to call at Uppercross in the Christmas holidays ."
Everybody has their taste in noises as well as in other matters ; and sounds are quite innoxious , or most distressing , by their sort rather than their quantity .
When Lady Russell not long afterwards , was entering Bath on a wet afternoon , and driving through the long course of streets from the Old Bridge to Camden Place , amidst the dash of other carriages , the heavy rumble of carts and drays , the bawling of newspapermen , muffin - men and milkmen , and the ceaseless clink of pattens , she made no complaint .
No , these were noises which belonged to the winter pleasures ; her spirits rose under their influence ; and like Mrs Musgrove , she was feeling , though not saying , that after being long in the country , nothing could be so good for her as a little quiet cheerfulness .
Anne did not share these feelings .
She persisted in a very determined , though very silent disinclination for Bath ; caught the first dim view of the extensive buildings , smoking in rain , without any wish of seeing them better ; felt their progress through the streets to be , however disagreeable , yet too rapid ; for who would be glad to see her when she arrived ?
And looked back , with fond regret , to the bustles of Uppercross and the seclusion of Kellynch .
Elizabeth ' s last letter had communicated a piece of news of some interest .
Mr Elliot was in Bath .
He had called in Camden Place ; had called a second time , a third ; had been pointedly attentive .
If Elizabeth and her father did not deceive themselves , had been taking much pains to seek the acquaintance , and proclaim the value of the connection , as he had formerly taken pains to shew neglect .
This was very wonderful if it were true ; and Lady Russell was in a state of very agreeable curiosity and perplexity about Mr Elliot , already recanting the sentiment she had so lately expressed to Mary , of his being " a man whom she had no wish to see ."
She had a great wish to see him .
If he really sought to reconcile himself like a dutiful branch , he must be forgiven for having dismembered himself from the paternal tree .
Anne was not animated to an equal pitch by the circumstance , but she felt that she would rather see Mr Elliot again than not , which was more than she could say for many other persons in Bath .
She was put down in Camden Place ; and Lady Russell then drove to her own lodgings , in Rivers Street .
Chapter 15
Sir Walter had taken a very good house in Camden Place , a lofty dignified situation , such as becomes a man of consequence ; and both he and Elizabeth were settled there , much to their satisfaction .
Anne entered it with a sinking heart , anticipating an imprisonment of many months , and anxiously saying to herself , " Oh !
when shall I leave you again ?"
A degree of unexpected cordiality , however , in the welcome she received , did her good .
Her father and sister were glad to see her , for the sake of shewing her the house and furniture , and met her with kindness .
Her making a fourth , when they sat down to dinner , was noticed as an advantage .
Mrs Clay was very pleasant , and very smiling , but her courtesies and smiles were more a matter of course .
Anne had always felt that she would pretend what was proper on her arrival , but the complaisance of the others was unlooked for .
They were evidently in excellent spirits , and she was soon to listen to the causes .
They had no inclination to listen to her .
After laying out for some compliments of being deeply regretted in their old neighbourhood , which Anne could not pay , they had only a few faint enquiries to make , before the talk must be all their own .
Uppercross excited no interest , Kellynch very little : it was all Bath .
They had the pleasure of assuring her that Bath more than answered their expectations in every respect .
Their house was undoubtedly the best in Camden Place ; their drawing - rooms had many decided advantages over all the others which they had either seen or heard of , and the superiority was not less in the style of the fitting - up , or the taste of the furniture .
Their acquaintance was exceedingly sought after .
Everybody was wanting to visit them .
They had drawn back from many introductions , and still were perpetually having cards left by people of whom they knew nothing .
Here were funds of enjoyment .
Could Anne wonder that her father and sister were happy ?
She might not wonder , but she must sigh that her father should feel no degradation in his change , should see nothing to regret in the duties and dignity of the resident landholder , should find so much to be vain of in the littlenesses of a town ; and she must sigh , and smile , and wonder too , as Elizabeth threw open the folding - doors and walked with exultation from one drawing - room to the other , boasting of their space ; at the possibility of that woman , who had been mistress of Kellynch Hall , finding extent to be proud of between two walls , perhaps thirty feet asunder .
But this was not all which they had to make them happy .
They had Mr Elliot too .
Anne had a great deal to hear of Mr Elliot .
He was not only pardoned , they were delighted with him .
He had been in Bath about a fortnight ; ( he had passed through Bath in November , in his way to London , when the intelligence of Sir Walter ' s being settled there had of course reached him , though only twenty - four hours in the place , but he had not been able to avail himself of it ;) but he had now been a fortnight in Bath , and his first object on arriving , had been to leave his card in Camden Place , following it up by such assiduous endeavours to meet , and when they did meet , by such great openness of conduct , such readiness to apologize for the past , such solicitude to be received as a relation again , that their former good understanding was completely re - established .
They had not a fault to find in him .
He had explained away all the appearance of neglect on his own side .
It had originated in misapprehension entirely .
He had never had an idea of throwing himself off ; he had feared that he was thrown off , but knew not why , and delicacy had kept him silent .
Upon the hint of having spoken disrespectfully or carelessly of the family and the family honours , he was quite indignant .
He , who had ever boasted of being an Elliot , and whose feelings , as to connection , were only too strict to suit the unfeudal tone of the present day .
He was astonished , indeed , but his character and general conduct must refute it .
He could refer Sir Walter to all who knew him ; and certainly , the pains he had been taking on this , the first opportunity of reconciliation , to be restored to the footing of a relation and heir - presumptive , was a strong proof of his opinions on the subject .
The circumstances of his marriage , too , were found to admit of much extenuation .
This was an article not to be entered on by himself ; but a very intimate friend of his , a Colonel Wallis , a highly respectable man , perfectly the gentleman , ( and not an ill - looking man , Sir Walter added ), who was living in very good style in Marlborough Buildings , and had , at his own particular request , been admitted to their acquaintance through Mr Elliot , had mentioned one or two things relative to the marriage , which made a material difference in the discredit of it .
Colonel Wallis had known Mr Elliot long , had been well acquainted also with his wife , had perfectly understood the whole story .
She was certainly not a woman of family , but well educated , accomplished , rich , and excessively in love with his friend .
There had been the charm .
She had sought him .
Without that attraction , not all her money would have tempted Elliot , and Sir Walter was , moreover , assured of her having been a very fine woman .
Here was a great deal to soften the business .
A very fine woman with a large fortune , in love with him !
Sir Walter seemed to admit it as complete apology ; and though Elizabeth could not see the circumstance in quite so favourable a light , she allowed it be a great extenuation .
Mr Elliot had called repeatedly , had dined with them once , evidently delighted by the distinction of being asked , for they gave no dinners in general ; delighted , in short , by every proof of cousinly notice , and placing his whole happiness in being on intimate terms in Camden Place .
Anne listened , but without quite understanding it .
Allowances , large allowances , she knew , must be made for the ideas of those who spoke .
She heard it all under embellishment .
All that sounded extravagant or irrational in the progress of the reconciliation might have no origin but in the language of the relators .
Still , however , she had the sensation of there being something more than immediately appeared , in Mr Elliot ' s wishing , after an interval of so many years , to be well received by them .
In a worldly view , he had nothing to gain by being on terms with Sir Walter ; nothing to risk by a state of variance .
In all probability he was already the richer of the two , and the Kellynch estate would as surely be his hereafter as the title .
A sensible man , and he had looked like a very sensible man , why should it be an object to him ?
She could only offer one solution ; it was , perhaps , for Elizabeth ' s sake .
There might really have been a liking formerly , though convenience and accident had drawn him a different way ; and now that he could afford to please himself , he might mean to pay his addresses to her .
Elizabeth was certainly very handsome , with well - bred , elegant manners , and her character might never have been penetrated by Mr Elliot , knowing her but in public , and when very young himself .
How her temper and understanding might bear the investigation of his present keener time of life was another concern and rather a fearful one .
Most earnestly did she wish that he might not be too nice , or too observant if Elizabeth were his object ; and that Elizabeth was disposed to believe herself so , and that her friend Mrs Clay was encouraging the idea , seemed apparent by a glance or two between them , while Mr Elliot ' s frequent visits were talked of .
Anne mentioned the glimpses she had had of him at Lyme , but without being much attended to .
" Oh !
yes , perhaps , it had been Mr Elliot .
They did not know .
It might be him , perhaps ."
They could not listen to her description of him .
They were describing him themselves ; Sir Walter especially .
He did justice to his very gentlemanlike appearance , his air of elegance and fashion , his good shaped face , his sensible eye ; but , at the same time , " must lament his being very much under - hung , a defect which time seemed to have increased ; nor could he pretend to say that ten years had not altered almost every feature for the worse .
Mr Elliot appeared to think that he ( Sir Walter ) was looking exactly as he had done when they last parted ;" but Sir Walter had " not been able to return the compliment entirely , which had embarrassed him .
He did not mean to complain , however .
Mr Elliot was better to look at than most men , and he had no objection to being seen with him anywhere ."
Mr Elliot , and his friends in Marlborough Buildings , were talked of the whole evening .
" Colonel Wallis had been so impatient to be introduced to them !
and Mr Elliot so anxious that he should !"
and there was a Mrs Wallis , at present known only to them by description , as she was in daily expectation of her confinement ; but Mr Elliot spoke of her as " a most charming woman , quite worthy of being known in Camden Place ," and as soon as she recovered they were to be acquainted .
Sir Walter thought much of Mrs Wallis ; she was said to be an excessively pretty woman , beautiful .
" He longed to see her .
He hoped she might make some amends for the many very plain faces he was continually passing in the streets .
The worst of Bath was the number of its plain women .
He did not mean to say that there were no pretty women , but the number of the plain was out of all proportion .
He had frequently observed , as he walked , that one handsome face would be followed by thirty , or five - and - thirty frights ; and once , as he had stood in a shop on Bond Street , he had counted eighty - seven women go by , one after another , without there being a tolerable face among them .
It had been a frosty morning , to be sure , a sharp frost , which hardly one woman in a thousand could stand the test of .
But still , there certainly were a dreadful multitude of ugly women in Bath ; and as for the men !
they were infinitely worse .
Such scarecrows as the streets were full of !
It was evident how little the women were used to the sight of anything tolerable , by the effect which a man of decent appearance produced .
He had never walked anywhere arm - in - arm with Colonel Wallis ( who was a fine military figure , though sandy - haired ) without observing that every woman ' s eye was upon him ; every woman ' s eye was sure to be upon Colonel Wallis ."
Modest Sir Walter !
He was not allowed to escape , however .
His daughter and Mrs Clay united in hinting that Colonel Wallis ' s companion might have as good a figure as Colonel Wallis , and certainly was not sandy - haired .
" How is Mary looking ?"
said Sir Walter , in the height of his good humour .
" The last time I saw her she had a red nose , but I hope that may not happen every day ."
" Oh !
no , that must have been quite accidental .
In general she has been in very good health and very good looks since Michaelmas ."
" If I thought it would not tempt her to go out in sharp winds , and grow coarse , I would send her a new hat and pelisse ."
Anne was considering whether she should venture to suggest that a gown , or a cap , would not be liable to any such misuse , when a knock at the door suspended everything .
" A knock at the door !
and so late !
It was ten o ' clock .
Could it be Mr Elliot ?
They knew he was to dine in Lansdown Crescent .
It was possible that he might stop in his way home to ask them how they did .
They could think of no one else .
Mrs Clay decidedly thought it Mr Elliot ' s knock ."
Mrs Clay was right .
With all the state which a butler and foot - boy could give , Mr Elliot was ushered into the room .
It was the same , the very same man , with no difference but of dress .
Anne drew a little back , while the others received his compliments , and her sister his apologies for calling at so unusual an hour , but " he could not be so near without wishing to know that neither she nor her friend had taken cold the day before ," & c . & c ; which was all as politely done , and as politely taken , as possible , but her part must follow then .
Sir Walter talked of his youngest daughter ; " Mr Elliot must give him leave to present him to his youngest daughter " ( there was no occasion for remembering Mary ); and Anne , smiling and blushing , very becomingly shewed to Mr Elliot the pretty features which he had by no means forgotten , and instantly saw , with amusement at his little start of surprise , that he had not been at all aware of who she was .
He looked completely astonished , but not more astonished than pleased ; his eyes brightened !
and with the most perfect alacrity he welcomed the relationship , alluded to the past , and entreated to be received as an acquaintance already .
He was quite as good - looking as he had appeared at Lyme , his countenance improved by speaking , and his manners were so exactly what they ought to be , so polished , so easy , so particularly agreeable , that she could compare them in excellence to only one person ' s manners .
They were not the same , but they were , perhaps , equally good .
He sat down with them , and improved their conversation very much .
There could be no doubt of his being a sensible man .
Ten minutes were enough to certify that .
His tone , his expressions , his choice of subject , his knowing where to stop ; it was all the operation of a sensible , discerning mind .
As soon as he could , he began to talk to her of Lyme , wanting to compare opinions respecting the place , but especially wanting to speak of the circumstance of their happening to be guests in the same inn at the same time ; to give his own route , understand something of hers , and regret that he should have lost such an opportunity of paying his respects to her .
She gave him a short account of her party and business at Lyme .
His regret increased as he listened .
He had spent his whole solitary evening in the room adjoining theirs ; had heard voices , mirth continually ; thought they must be a most delightful set of people , longed to be with them , but certainly without the smallest suspicion of his possessing the shadow of a right to introduce himself .
If he had but asked who the party were !
The name of Musgrove would have told him enough .
" Well , it would serve to cure him of an absurd practice of never asking a question at an inn , which he had adopted , when quite a young man , on the principal of its being very ungenteel to be curious .
" The notions of a young man of one or two and twenty ," said he , " as to what is necessary in manners to make him quite the thing , are more absurd , I believe , than those of any other set of beings in the world .
The folly of the means they often employ is only to be equalled by the folly of what they have in view ."
But he must not be addressing his reflections to Anne alone : he knew it ; he was soon diffused again among the others , and it was only at intervals that he could return to Lyme .
His enquiries , however , produced at length an account of the scene she had been engaged in there , soon after his leaving the place .
Having alluded to " an accident ," he must hear the whole .
When he questioned , Sir Walter and Elizabeth began to question also , but the difference in their manner of doing it could not be unfelt .
She could only compare Mr Elliot to Lady Russell , in the wish of really comprehending what had passed , and in the degree of concern for what she must have suffered in witnessing it .
He staid an hour with them .
The elegant little clock on the mantel - piece had struck " eleven with its silver sounds ," and the watchman was beginning to be heard at a distance telling the same tale , before Mr Elliot or any of them seemed to feel that he had been there long .
Anne could not have supposed it possible that her first evening in Camden Place could have passed so well !
Chapter 16
There was one point which Anne , on returning to her family , would have been more thankful to ascertain even than Mr Elliot ' s being in love with Elizabeth , which was , her father ' s not being in love with Mrs Clay ; and she was very far from easy about it , when she had been at home a few hours .
On going down to breakfast the next morning , she found there had just been a decent pretence on the lady ' s side of meaning to leave them .
She could imagine Mrs Clay to have said , that " now Miss Anne was come , she could not suppose herself at all wanted ;" for Elizabeth was replying in a sort of whisper , " That must not be any reason , indeed .
I assure you I feel it none .
She is nothing to me , compared with you ;" and she was in full time to hear her father say , " My dear madam , this must not be .
As yet , you have seen nothing of Bath .
You have been here only to be useful .
You must not run away from us now .
You must stay to be acquainted with Mrs Wallis , the beautiful Mrs Wallis .
To your fine mind , I well know the sight of beauty is a real gratification ."
He spoke and looked so much in earnest , that Anne was not surprised to see Mrs Clay stealing a glance at Elizabeth and herself .
Her countenance , perhaps , might express some watchfulness ; but the praise of the fine mind did not appear to excite a thought in her sister .
The lady could not but yield to such joint entreaties , and promise to stay .
In the course of the same morning , Anne and her father chancing to be alone together , he began to compliment her on her improved looks ; he thought her " less thin in her person , in her cheeks ; her skin , her complexion , greatly improved ; clearer , fresher .
Had she been using any thing in particular ?"
" No , nothing ."
" Merely Gowland ," he supposed .
" No , nothing at all ."
" Ha !
he was surprised at that ;" and added , " certainly you cannot do better than to continue as you are ; you cannot be better than well ; or I should recommend Gowland , the constant use of Gowland , during the spring months .
Mrs Clay has been using it at my recommendation , and you see what it has done for her .
You see how it has carried away her freckles ."
If Elizabeth could but have heard this !
Such personal praise might have struck her , especially as it did not appear to Anne that the freckles were at all lessened .
But everything must take its chance .
The evil of a marriage would be much diminished , if Elizabeth were also to marry .
As for herself , she might always command a home with Lady Russell .
Lady Russell ' s composed mind and polite manners were put to some trial on this point , in her intercourse in Camden Place .
The sight of Mrs Clay in such favour , and of Anne so overlooked , was a perpetual provocation to her there ; and vexed her as much when she was away , as a person in Bath who drinks the water , gets all the new publications , and has a very large acquaintance , has time to be vexed .
As Mr Elliot became known to her , she grew more charitable , or more indifferent , towards the others .
His manners were an immediate recommendation ; and on conversing with him she found the solid so fully supporting the superficial , that she was at first , as she told Anne , almost ready to exclaim , " Can this be Mr Elliot ?"
and could not seriously picture to herself a more agreeable or estimable man .
Everything united in him ; good understanding , correct opinions , knowledge of the world , and a warm heart .
He had strong feelings of family attachment and family honour , without pride or weakness ; he lived with the liberality of a man of fortune , without display ; he judged for himself in everything essential , without defying public opinion in any point of worldly decorum .
He was steady , observant , moderate , candid ; never run away with by spirits or by selfishness , which fancied itself strong feeling ; and yet , with a sensibility to what was amiable and lovely , and a value for all the felicities of domestic life , which characters of fancied enthusiasm and violent agitation seldom really possess .
She was sure that he had not been happy in marriage .
Colonel Wallis said it , and Lady Russell saw it ; but it had been no unhappiness to sour his mind , nor ( she began pretty soon to suspect ) to prevent his thinking of a second choice .
Her satisfaction in Mr Elliot outweighed all the plague of Mrs Clay .
It was now some years since Anne had begun to learn that she and her excellent friend could sometimes think differently ; and it did not surprise her , therefore , that Lady Russell should see nothing suspicious or inconsistent , nothing to require more motives than appeared , in Mr Elliot ' s great desire of a reconciliation .
In Lady Russell ' s view , it was perfectly natural that Mr Elliot , at a mature time of life , should feel it a most desirable object , and what would very generally recommend him among all sensible people , to be on good terms with the head of his family ; the simplest process in the world of time upon a head naturally clear , and only erring in the heyday of youth .
Anne presumed , however , still to smile about it , and at last to mention " Elizabeth ."
Lady Russell listened , and looked , and made only this cautious reply :--" Elizabeth !
very well ; time will explain ."
It was a reference to the future , which Anne , after a little observation , felt she must submit to .
She could determine nothing at present .
In that house Elizabeth must be first ; and she was in the habit of such general observance as " Miss Elliot ," that any particularity of attention seemed almost impossible .
Mr Elliot , too , it must be remembered , had not been a widower seven months .
A little delay on his side might be very excusable .
In fact , Anne could never see the crape round his hat , without fearing that she was the inexcusable one , in attributing to him such imaginations ; for though his marriage had not been very happy , still it had existed so many years that she could not comprehend a very rapid recovery from the awful impression of its being dissolved .
However it might end , he was without any question their pleasantest acquaintance in Bath : she saw nobody equal to him ; and it was a great indulgence now and then to talk to him about Lyme , which he seemed to have as lively a wish to see again , and to see more of , as herself .
They went through the particulars of their first meeting a great many times .
He gave her to understand that he had looked at her with some earnestness .
She knew it well ; and she remembered another person ' s look also .
They did not always think alike .
His value for rank and connexion she perceived was greater than hers .
It was not merely complaisance , it must be a liking to the cause , which made him enter warmly into her father and sister ' s solicitudes on a subject which she thought unworthy to excite them .
The Bath paper one morning announced the arrival of the Dowager Viscountess Dalrymple , and her daughter , the Honourable Miss Carteret ; and all the comfort of No .--, Camden Place , was swept away for many days ; for the Dalrymples ( in Anne ' s opinion , most unfortunately ) were cousins of the Elliots ; and the agony was how to introduce themselves properly .
Anne had never seen her father and sister before in contact with nobility , and she must acknowledge herself disappointed .
She had hoped better things from their high ideas of their own situation in life , and was reduced to form a wish which she had never foreseen ; a wish that they had more pride ; for " our cousins Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret ;" " our cousins , the Dalrymples ," sounded in her ears all day long .
Sir Walter had once been in company with the late viscount , but had never seen any of the rest of the family ; and the difficulties of the case arose from there having been a suspension of all intercourse by letters of ceremony , ever since the death of that said late viscount , when , in consequence of a dangerous illness of Sir Walter ' s at the same time , there had been an unlucky omission at Kellynch .
No letter of condolence had been sent to Ireland .
The neglect had been visited on the head of the sinner ; for when poor Lady Elliot died herself , no letter of condolence was received at Kellynch , and , consequently , there was but too much reason to apprehend that the Dalrymples considered the relationship as closed .
How to have this anxious business set to rights , and be admitted as cousins again , was the question : and it was a question which , in a more rational manner , neither Lady Russell nor Mr Elliot thought unimportant .
" Family connexions were always worth preserving , good company always worth seeking ; Lady Dalrymple had taken a house , for three months , in Laura Place , and would be living in style .
She had been at Bath the year before , and Lady Russell had heard her spoken of as a charming woman .
It was very desirable that the connexion should be renewed , if it could be done , without any compromise of propriety on the side of the Elliots ."
Sir Walter , however , would choose his own means , and at last wrote a very fine letter of ample explanation , regret , and entreaty , to his right honourable cousin .
Neither Lady Russell nor Mr Elliot could admire the letter ; but it did all that was wanted , in bringing three lines of scrawl from the Dowager Viscountess .
" She was very much honoured , and should be happy in their acquaintance ."
The toils of the business were over , the sweets began .
They visited in Laura Place , they had the cards of Dowager Viscountess Dalrymple , and the Honourable Miss Carteret , to be arranged wherever they might be most visible : and " Our cousins in Laura Place ,"--" Our cousin , Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret ," were talked of to everybody .
Anne was ashamed .
Had Lady Dalrymple and her daughter even been very agreeable , she would still have been ashamed of the agitation they created , but they were nothing .
There was no superiority of manner , accomplishment , or understanding .
Lady Dalrymple had acquired the name of " a charming woman ," because she had a smile and a civil answer for everybody .
Miss Carteret , with still less to say , was so plain and so awkward , that she would never have been tolerated in Camden Place but for her birth .
Lady Russell confessed she had expected something better ; but yet " it was an acquaintance worth having ;" and when Anne ventured to speak her opinion of them to Mr Elliot , he agreed to their being nothing in themselves , but still maintained that , as a family connexion , as good company , as those who would collect good company around them , they had their value .
Anne smiled and said ,
" My idea of good company , Mr Elliot , is the company of clever , well - informed people , who have a great deal of conversation ; that is what I call good company ."
" You are mistaken ," said he gently , " that is not good company ; that is the best .
Good company requires only birth , education , and manners , and with regard to education is not very nice .
Birth and good manners are essential ; but a little learning is by no means a dangerous thing in good company ; on the contrary , it will do very well .
My cousin Anne shakes her head .
She is not satisfied .
She is fastidious .
My dear cousin " ( sitting down by her ), " you have a better right to be fastidious than almost any other woman I know ; but will it answer ?
Will it make you happy ?
Will it not be wiser to accept the society of those good ladies in Laura Place , and enjoy all the advantages of the connexion as far as possible ?
You may depend upon it , that they will move in the first set in Bath this winter , and as rank is rank , your being known to be related to them will have its use in fixing your family ( our family let me say ) in that degree of consideration which we must all wish for ."
" Yes ," sighed Anne , " we shall , indeed , be known to be related to them !"
then recollecting herself , and not wishing to be answered , she added , " I certainly do think there has been by far too much trouble taken to procure the acquaintance .
I suppose " ( smiling ) " I have more pride than any of you ; but I confess it does vex me , that we should be so solicitous to have the relationship acknowledged , which we may be very sure is a matter of perfect indifference to them ."
" Pardon me , dear cousin , you are unjust in your own claims .
In London , perhaps , in your present quiet style of living , it might be as you say : but in Bath ; Sir Walter Elliot and his family will always be worth knowing : always acceptable as acquaintance ."
" Well ," said Anne , " I certainly am proud , too proud to enjoy a welcome which depends so entirely upon place ."
" I love your indignation ," said he ; " it is very natural .
But here you are in Bath , and the object is to be established here with all the credit and dignity which ought to belong to Sir Walter Elliot .
You talk of being proud ; I am called proud , I know , and I shall not wish to believe myself otherwise ; for our pride , if investigated , would have the same object , I have no doubt , though the kind may seem a little different .
In one point , I am sure , my dear cousin ," ( he continued , speaking lower , though there was no one else in the room ) " in one point , I am sure , we must feel alike .
We must feel that every addition to your father ' s society , among his equals or superiors , may be of use in diverting his thoughts from those who are beneath him ."
He looked , as he spoke , to the seat which Mrs Clay had been lately occupying : a sufficient explanation of what he particularly meant ; and though Anne could not believe in their having the same sort of pride , she was pleased with him for not liking Mrs Clay ; and her conscience admitted that his wishing to promote her father ' s getting great acquaintance was more than excusable in the view of defeating her .
Chapter 17
While Sir Walter and Elizabeth were assiduously pushing their good fortune in Laura Place , Anne was renewing an acquaintance of a very different description .
She had called on her former governess , and had heard from her of there being an old school - fellow in Bath , who had the two strong claims on her attention of past kindness and present suffering .
Miss Hamilton , now Mrs Smith , had shewn her kindness in one of those periods of her life when it had been most valuable .
Anne had gone unhappy to school , grieving for the loss of a mother whom she had dearly loved , feeling her separation from home , and suffering as a girl of fourteen , of strong sensibility and not high spirits , must suffer at such a time ; and Miss Hamilton , three years older than herself , but still from the want of near relations and a settled home , remaining another year at school , had been useful and good to her in a way which had considerably lessened her misery , and could never be remembered with indifference .
Miss Hamilton had left school , had married not long afterwards , was said to have married a man of fortune , and this was all that Anne had known of her , till now that their governess ' s account brought her situation forward in a more decided but very different form .
She was a widow and poor .
Her husband had been extravagant ; and at his death , about two years before , had left his affairs dreadfully involved .
She had had difficulties of every sort to contend with , and in addition to these distresses had been afflicted with a severe rheumatic fever , which , finally settling in her legs , had made her for the present a cripple .
She had come to Bath on that account , and was now in lodgings near the hot baths , living in a very humble way , unable even to afford herself the comfort of a servant , and of course almost excluded from society .
Their mutual friend answered for the satisfaction which a visit from Miss Elliot would give Mrs Smith , and Anne therefore lost no time in going .
She mentioned nothing of what she had heard , or what she intended , at home .
It would excite no proper interest there .
She only consulted Lady Russell , who entered thoroughly into her sentiments , and was most happy to convey her as near to Mrs Smith ' s lodgings in Westgate Buildings , as Anne chose to be taken .
The visit was paid , their acquaintance re - established , their interest in each other more than re - kindled .
The first ten minutes had its awkwardness and its emotion .
Twelve years were gone since they had parted , and each presented a somewhat different person from what the other had imagined .
Twelve years had changed Anne from the blooming , silent , unformed girl of fifteen , to the elegant little woman of seven - and - twenty , with every beauty except bloom , and with manners as consciously right as they were invariably gentle ; and twelve years had transformed the fine - looking , well - grown Miss Hamilton , in all the glow of health and confidence of superiority , into a poor , infirm , helpless widow , receiving the visit of her former protegee as a favour ; but all that was uncomfortable in the meeting had soon passed away , and left only the interesting charm of remembering former partialities and talking over old times .
Anne found in Mrs Smith the good sense and agreeable manners which she had almost ventured to depend on , and a disposition to converse and be cheerful beyond her expectation .
Neither the dissipations of the past -- and she had lived very much in the world -- nor the restrictions of the present , neither sickness nor sorrow seemed to have closed her heart or ruined her spirits .
In the course of a second visit she talked with great openness , and Anne ' s astonishment increased .
She could scarcely imagine a more cheerless situation in itself than Mrs Smith ' s .
She had been very fond of her husband : she had buried him .
She had been used to affluence : it was gone .
She had no child to connect her with life and happiness again , no relations to assist in the arrangement of perplexed affairs , no health to make all the rest supportable .
Her accommodations were limited to a noisy parlour , and a dark bedroom behind , with no possibility of moving from one to the other without assistance , which there was only one servant in the house to afford , and she never quitted the house but to be conveyed into the warm bath .
Yet , in spite of all this , Anne had reason to believe that she had moments only of languor and depression , to hours of occupation and enjoyment .
How could it be ?
She watched , observed , reflected , and finally determined that this was not a case of fortitude or of resignation only .
A submissive spirit might be patient , a strong understanding would supply resolution , but here was something more ; here was that elasticity of mind , that disposition to be comforted , that power of turning readily from evil to good , and of finding employment which carried her out of herself , which was from nature alone .
It was the choicest gift of Heaven ; and Anne viewed her friend as one of those instances in which , by a merciful appointment , it seems designed to counterbalance almost every other want .
There had been a time , Mrs Smith told her , when her spirits had nearly failed .
She could not call herself an invalid now , compared with her state on first reaching Bath .
Then she had , indeed , been a pitiable object ; for she had caught cold on the journey , and had hardly taken possession of her lodgings before she was again confined to her bed and suffering under severe and constant pain ; and all this among strangers , with the absolute necessity of having a regular nurse , and finances at that moment particularly unfit to meet any extraordinary expense .
She had weathered it , however , and could truly say that it had done her good .
It had increased her comforts by making her feel herself to be in good hands .
She had seen too much of the world , to expect sudden or disinterested attachment anywhere , but her illness had proved to her that her landlady had a character to preserve , and would not use her ill ; and she had been particularly fortunate in her nurse , as a sister of her landlady , a nurse by profession , and who had always a home in that house when unemployed , chanced to be at liberty just in time to attend her .
" And she ," said Mrs Smith , " besides nursing me most admirably , has really proved an invaluable acquaintance .
As soon as I could use my hands she taught me to knit , which has been a great amusement ; and she put me in the way of making these little thread - cases , pin - cushions and card - racks , which you always find me so busy about , and which supply me with the means of doing a little good to one or two very poor families in this neighbourhood .
She had a large acquaintance , of course professionally , among those who can afford to buy , and she disposes of my merchandise .
She always takes the right time for applying .
Everybody ' s heart is open , you know , when they have recently escaped from severe pain , or are recovering the blessing of health , and Nurse Rooke thoroughly understands when to speak .
She is a shrewd , intelligent , sensible woman .
Hers is a line for seeing human nature ; and she has a fund of good sense and observation , which , as a companion , make her infinitely superior to thousands of those who having only received ` the best education in the world ,' know nothing worth attending to .
Call it gossip , if you will , but when Nurse Rooke has half an hour ' s leisure to bestow on me , she is sure to have something to relate that is entertaining and profitable : something that makes one know one ' s species better .
One likes to hear what is going on , to be au fait as to the newest modes of being trifling and silly .
To me , who live so much alone , her conversation , I assure you , is a treat ."
Anne , far from wishing to cavil at the pleasure , replied , " I can easily believe it .
Women of that class have great opportunities , and if they are intelligent may be well worth listening to .
Such varieties of human nature as they are in the habit of witnessing !
And it is not merely in its follies , that they are well read ; for they see it occasionally under every circumstance that can be most interesting or affecting .
What instances must pass before them of ardent , disinterested , self - denying attachment , of heroism , fortitude , patience , resignation : of all the conflicts and all the sacrifices that ennoble us most .
A sick chamber may often furnish the worth of volumes ."
" Yes ," said Mrs Smith more doubtingly , " sometimes it may , though I fear its lessons are not often in the elevated style you describe .
Here and there , human nature may be great in times of trial ; but generally speaking , it is its weakness and not its strength that appears in a sick chamber : it is selfishness and impatience rather than generosity and fortitude , that one hears of .
There is so little real friendship in the world !
and unfortunately " ( speaking low and tremulously ) " there are so many who forget to think seriously till it is almost too late ."
Anne saw the misery of such feelings .
The husband had not been what he ought , and the wife had been led among that part of mankind which made her think worse of the world than she hoped it deserved .
It was but a passing emotion however with Mrs Smith ; she shook it off , and soon added in a different tone --
" I do not suppose the situation my friend Mrs Rooke is in at present , will furnish much either to interest or edify me .
She is only nursing Mrs Wallis of Marlborough Buildings ; a mere pretty , silly , expensive , fashionable woman , I believe ; and of course will have nothing to report but of lace and finery .
I mean to make my profit of Mrs Wallis , however .
She has plenty of money , and I intend she shall buy all the high - priced things I have in hand now ."
Anne had called several times on her friend , before the existence of such a person was known in Camden Place .
At last , it became necessary to speak of her .
Sir Walter , Elizabeth and Mrs Clay , returned one morning from Laura Place , with a sudden invitation from Lady Dalrymple for the same evening , and Anne was already engaged , to spend that evening in Westgate Buildings .
She was not sorry for the excuse .
They were only asked , she was sure , because Lady Dalrymple being kept at home by a bad cold , was glad to make use of the relationship which had been so pressed on her ; and she declined on her own account with great alacrity --" She was engaged to spend the evening with an old schoolfellow ."
They were not much interested in anything relative to Anne ; but still there were questions enough asked , to make it understood what this old schoolfellow was ; and Elizabeth was disdainful , and Sir Walter severe .
" Westgate Buildings !"
said he , " and who is Miss Anne Elliot to be visiting in Westgate Buildings ?
A Mrs Smith .
A widow Mrs Smith ; and who was her husband ?
One of five thousand Mr Smiths whose names are to be met with everywhere .
And what is her attraction ?
That she is old and sickly .
Upon my word , Miss Anne Elliot , you have the most extraordinary taste !
Everything that revolts other people , low company , paltry rooms , foul air , disgusting associations are inviting to you .
But surely you may put off this old lady till to - morrow : she is not so near her end , I presume , but that she may hope to see another day .
What is her age ?
Forty ?"
" No , sir , she is not one - and - thirty ; but I do not think I can put off my engagement , because it is the only evening for some time which will at once suit her and myself .
She goes into the warm bath to - morrow , and for the rest of the week , you know , we are engaged ."
" But what does Lady Russell think of this acquaintance ?"
asked Elizabeth .
" She sees nothing to blame in it ," replied Anne ; " on the contrary , she approves it , and has generally taken me when I have called on Mrs Smith .
" Westgate Buildings must have been rather surprised by the appearance of a carriage drawn up near its pavement ," observed Sir Walter .
" Sir Henry Russell ' s widow , indeed , has no honours to distinguish her arms , but still it is a handsome equipage , and no doubt is well known to convey a Miss Elliot .
A widow Mrs Smith lodging in Westgate Buildings !
A poor widow barely able to live , between thirty and forty ; a mere Mrs Smith , an every - day Mrs Smith , of all people and all names in the world , to be the chosen friend of Miss Anne Elliot , and to be preferred by her to her own family connections among the nobility of England and Ireland !
Mrs Smith !
Such a name !"
Mrs Clay , who had been present while all this passed , now thought it advisable to leave the room , and Anne could have said much , and did long to say a little in defence of her friend ' s not very dissimilar claims to theirs , but her sense of personal respect to her father prevented her .
She made no reply .
She left it to himself to recollect , that Mrs Smith was not the only widow in Bath between thirty and forty , with little to live on , and no surname of dignity .
Anne kept her appointment ; the others kept theirs , and of course she heard the next morning that they had had a delightful evening .
She had been the only one of the set absent , for Sir Walter and Elizabeth had not only been quite at her ladyship ' s service themselves , but had actually been happy to be employed by her in collecting others , and had been at the trouble of inviting both Lady Russell and Mr Elliot ; and Mr Elliot had made a point of leaving Colonel Wallis early , and Lady Russell had fresh arranged all her evening engagements in order to wait on her .
Anne had the whole history of all that such an evening could supply from Lady Russell .
To her , its greatest interest must be , in having been very much talked of between her friend and Mr Elliot ; in having been wished for , regretted , and at the same time honoured for staying away in such a cause .
Her kind , compassionate visits to this old schoolfellow , sick and reduced , seemed to have quite delighted Mr Elliot .
He thought her a most extraordinary young woman ; in her temper , manners , mind , a model of female excellence .
He could meet even Lady Russell in a discussion of her merits ; and Anne could not be given to understand so much by her friend , could not know herself to be so highly rated by a sensible man , without many of those agreeable sensations which her friend meant to create .
Lady Russell was now perfectly decided in her opinion of Mr Elliot .
She was as much convinced of his meaning to gain Anne in time as of his deserving her , and was beginning to calculate the number of weeks which would free him from all the remaining restraints of widowhood , and leave him at liberty to exert his most open powers of pleasing .
She would not speak to Anne with half the certainty she felt on the subject , she would venture on little more than hints of what might be hereafter , of a possible attachment on his side , of the desirableness of the alliance , supposing such attachment to be real and returned .
Anne heard her , and made no violent exclamations ; she only smiled , blushed , and gently shook her head .
" I am no match - maker , as you well know ," said Lady Russell , " being much too well aware of the uncertainty of all human events and calculations .
I only mean that if Mr Elliot should some time hence pay his addresses to you , and if you should be disposed to accept him , I think there would be every possibility of your being happy together .
A most suitable connection everybody must consider it , but I think it might be a very happy one ."
" Mr Elliot is an exceedingly agreeable man , and in many respects I think highly of him ," said Anne ; " but we should not suit ."
Lady Russell let this pass , and only said in rejoinder , " I own that to be able to regard you as the future mistress of Kellynch , the future Lady Elliot , to look forward and see you occupying your dear mother ' s place , succeeding to all her rights , and all her popularity , as well as to all her virtues , would be the highest possible gratification to me .
You are your mother ' s self in countenance and disposition ; and if I might be allowed to fancy you such as she was , in situation and name , and home , presiding and blessing in the same spot , and only superior to her in being more highly valued !
My dearest Anne , it would give me more delight than is often felt at my time of life !"
Anne was obliged to turn away , to rise , to walk to a distant table , and , leaning there in pretended employment , try to subdue the feelings this picture excited .
For a few moments her imagination and her heart were bewitched .
The idea of becoming what her mother had been ; of having the precious name of " Lady Elliot " first revived in herself ; of being restored to Kellynch , calling it her home again , her home for ever , was a charm which she could not immediately resist .
Lady Russell said not another word , willing to leave the matter to its own operation ; and believing that , could Mr Elliot at that moment with propriety have spoken for himself !-- she believed , in short , what Anne did not believe .
The same image of Mr Elliot speaking for himself brought Anne to composure again .
The charm of Kellynch and of " Lady Elliot " all faded away .
She never could accept him .
And it was not only that her feelings were still adverse to any man save one ; her judgement , on a serious consideration of the possibilities of such a case was against Mr Elliot .
Though they had now been acquainted a month , she could not be satisfied that she really knew his character .
That he was a sensible man , an agreeable man , that he talked well , professed good opinions , seemed to judge properly and as a man of principle , this was all clear enough .
He certainly knew what was right , nor could she fix on any one article of moral duty evidently transgressed ; but yet she would have been afraid to answer for his conduct .
She distrusted the past , if not the present .
The names which occasionally dropt of former associates , the allusions to former practices and pursuits , suggested suspicions not favourable of what he had been .
She saw that there had been bad habits ; that Sunday travelling had been a common thing ; that there had been a period of his life ( and probably not a short one ) when he had been , at least , careless in all serious matters ; and , though he might now think very differently , who could answer for the true sentiments of a clever , cautious man , grown old enough to appreciate a fair character ?
How could it ever be ascertained that his mind was truly cleansed ?
Mr Elliot was rational , discreet , polished , but he was not open .
There was never any burst of feeling , any warmth of indignation or delight , at the evil or good of others .
This , to Anne , was a decided imperfection .
Her early impressions were incurable .
She prized the frank , the open - hearted , the eager character beyond all others .
Warmth and enthusiasm did captivate her still .
She felt that she could so much more depend upon the sincerity of those who sometimes looked or said a careless or a hasty thing , than of those whose presence of mind never varied , whose tongue never slipped .
Mr Elliot was too generally agreeable .
Various as were the tempers in her father ' s house , he pleased them all .
He endured too well , stood too well with every body .
He had spoken to her with some degree of openness of Mrs Clay ; had appeared completely to see what Mrs Clay was about , and to hold her in contempt ; and yet Mrs Clay found him as agreeable as any body .
Lady Russell saw either less or more than her young friend , for she saw nothing to excite distrust .
She could not imagine a man more exactly what he ought to be than Mr Elliot ; nor did she ever enjoy a sweeter feeling than the hope of seeing him receive the hand of her beloved Anne in Kellynch church , in the course of the following autumn .
Chapter 18
It was the beginning of February ; and Anne , having been a month in Bath , was growing very eager for news from Uppercross and Lyme .
She wanted to hear much more than Mary had communicated .
It was three weeks since she had heard at all .
She only knew that Henrietta was at home again ; and that Louisa , though considered to be recovering fast , was still in Lyme ; and she was thinking of them all very intently one evening , when a thicker letter than usual from Mary was delivered to her ; and , to quicken the pleasure and surprise , with Admiral and Mrs Croft ' s compliments .
The Crofts must be in Bath !
A circumstance to interest her .
They were people whom her heart turned to very naturally .
" What is this ?"
cried Sir Walter .
" The Crofts have arrived in Bath ?
The Crofts who rent Kellynch ?
What have they brought you ?"
" A letter from Uppercross Cottage , Sir ."
" Oh !
those letters are convenient passports .
They secure an introduction .
I should have visited Admiral Croft , however , at any rate .
I know what is due to my tenant ."
Anne could listen no longer ; she could not even have told how the poor Admiral ' s complexion escaped ; her letter engrossed her .
It had been begun several days back .
" February 1st .
" My dear Anne ,-- I make no apology for my silence , because I know how little people think of letters in such a place as Bath .
You must be a great deal too happy to care for Uppercross , which , as you well know , affords little to write about .
We have had a very dull Christmas ; Mr and Mrs Musgrove have not had one dinner party all the holidays .
I do not reckon the Hayters as anybody .
The holidays , however , are over at last : I believe no children ever had such long ones .
I am sure I had not .
The house was cleared yesterday , except of the little Harvilles ; but you will be surprised to hear they have never gone home .
Mrs Harville must be an odd mother to part with them so long .
I do not understand it .
They are not at all nice children , in my opinion ; but Mrs Musgrove seems to like them quite as well , if not better , than her grandchildren .
What dreadful weather we have had !
It may not be felt in Bath , with your nice pavements ; but in the country it is of some consequence .
I have not had a creature call on me since the second week in January , except Charles Hayter , who had been calling much oftener than was welcome .
Between ourselves , I think it a great pity Henrietta did not remain at Lyme as long as Louisa ; it would have kept her a little out of his way .
The carriage is gone to - day , to bring Louisa and the Harvilles to - morrow .
We are not asked to dine with them , however , till the day after , Mrs Musgrove is so afraid of her being fatigued by the journey , which is not very likely , considering the care that will be taken of her ; and it would be much more convenient to me to dine there to - morrow .
I am glad you find Mr Elliot so agreeable , and wish I could be acquainted with him too ; but I have my usual luck : I am always out of the way when any thing desirable is going on ; always the last of my family to be noticed .
What an immense time Mrs Clay has been staying with Elizabeth !
Does she never mean to go away ?
But perhaps if she were to leave the room vacant , we might not be invited .
Let me know what you think of this .
I do not expect my children to be asked , you know .
I can leave them at the Great House very well , for a month or six weeks .
I have this moment heard that the Crofts are going to Bath almost immediately ; they think the Admiral gouty .
Charles heard it quite by chance ; they have not had the civility to give me any notice , or of offering to take anything .
I do not think they improve at all as neighbours .
We see nothing of them , and this is really an instance of gross inattention .
Charles joins me in love , and everything proper .
Yours affectionately ,
" Mary M ---.
" I am sorry to say that I am very far from well ; and Jemima has just told me that the butcher says there is a bad sore - throat very much about .
I dare say I shall catch it ; and my sore - throats , you know , are always worse than anybody ' s ."
So ended the first part , which had been afterwards put into an envelope , containing nearly as much more .
" I kept my letter open , that I might send you word how Louisa bore her journey , and now I am extremely glad I did , having a great deal to add .
In the first place , I had a note from Mrs Croft yesterday , offering to convey anything to you ; a very kind , friendly note indeed , addressed to me , just as it ought ; I shall therefore be able to make my letter as long as I like .
The Admiral does not seem very ill , and I sincerely hope Bath will do him all the good he wants .
I shall be truly glad to have them back again .
Our neighbourhood cannot spare such a pleasant family .
But now for Louisa .
I have something to communicate that will astonish you not a little .
She and the Harvilles came on Tuesday very safely , and in the evening we went to ask her how she did , when we were rather surprised not to find Captain Benwick of the party , for he had been invited as well as the Harvilles ; and what do you think was the reason ?
Neither more nor less than his being in love with Louisa , and not choosing to venture to Uppercross till he had had an answer from Mr Musgrove ; for it was all settled between him and her before she came away , and he had written to her father by Captain Harville .
True , upon my honour !
Are not you astonished ?
I shall be surprised at least if you ever received a hint of it , for I never did .
Mrs Musgrove protests solemnly that she knew nothing of the matter .
We are all very well pleased , however , for though it is not equal to her marrying Captain Wentworth , it is infinitely better than Charles Hayter ; and Mr Musgrove has written his consent , and Captain Benwick is expected to - day .
Mrs Harville says her husband feels a good deal on his poor sister ' s account ; but , however , Louisa is a great favourite with both .
Indeed , Mrs Harville and I quite agree that we love her the better for having nursed her .
Charles wonders what Captain Wentworth will say ; but if you remember , I never thought him attached to Louisa ; I never could see anything of it .
And this is the end , you see , of Captain Benwick ' s being supposed to be an admirer of yours .
How Charles could take such a thing into his head was always incomprehensible to me .
I hope he will be more agreeable now .
Certainly not a great match for Louisa Musgrove , but a million times better than marrying among the Hayters ."
Mary need not have feared her sister ' s being in any degree prepared for the news .
She had never in her life been more astonished .
Captain Benwick and Louisa Musgrove !
It was almost too wonderful for belief , and it was with the greatest effort that she could remain in the room , preserve an air of calmness , and answer the common questions of the moment .
Happily for her , they were not many .
Sir Walter wanted to know whether the Crofts travelled with four horses , and whether they were likely to be situated in such a part of Bath as it might suit Miss Elliot and himself to visit in ; but had little curiosity beyond .
" How is Mary ?"
said Elizabeth ; and without waiting for an answer , " And pray what brings the Crofts to Bath ?"
" They come on the Admiral ' s account .
He is thought to be gouty ."
" Gout and decrepitude !"
said Sir Walter .
" Poor old gentleman ."
" Have they any acquaintance here ?"
asked Elizabeth .
" I do not know ; but I can hardly suppose that , at Admiral Croft ' s time of life , and in his profession , he should not have many acquaintance in such a place as this ."
" I suspect ," said Sir Walter coolly , " that Admiral Croft will be best known in Bath as the renter of Kellynch Hall .
Elizabeth , may we venture to present him and his wife in Laura Place ?"
" Oh , no !
I think not .
Situated as we are with Lady Dalrymple , cousins , we ought to be very careful not to embarrass her with acquaintance she might not approve .
If we were not related , it would not signify ; but as cousins , she would feel scrupulous as to any proposal of ours .
We had better leave the Crofts to find their own level .
There are several odd - looking men walking about here , who , I am told , are sailors .
The Crofts will associate with them ."
This was Sir Walter and Elizabeth ' s share of interest in the letter ; when Mrs Clay had paid her tribute of more decent attention , in an enquiry after Mrs Charles Musgrove , and her fine little boys , Anne was at liberty .
In her own room , she tried to comprehend it .
Well might Charles wonder how Captain Wentworth would feel !
Perhaps he had quitted the field , had given Louisa up , had ceased to love , had found he did not love her .
She could not endure the idea of treachery or levity , or anything akin to ill usage between him and his friend .
She could not endure that such a friendship as theirs should be severed unfairly .
Captain Benwick and Louisa Musgrove !
The high - spirited , joyous - talking Louisa Musgrove , and the dejected , thinking , feeling , reading , Captain Benwick , seemed each of them everything that would not suit the other .
Their minds most dissimilar !
Where could have been the attraction ?
The answer soon presented itself .
It had been in situation .
They had been thrown together several weeks ; they had been living in the same small family party : since Henrietta ' s coming away , they must have been depending almost entirely on each other , and Louisa , just recovering from illness , had been in an interesting state , and Captain Benwick was not inconsolable .
That was a point which Anne had not been able to avoid suspecting before ; and instead of drawing the same conclusion as Mary , from the present course of events , they served only to confirm the idea of his having felt some dawning of tenderness toward herself .
She did not mean , however , to derive much more from it to gratify her vanity , than Mary might have allowed .
She was persuaded that any tolerably pleasing young woman who had listened and seemed to feel for him would have received the same compliment .
He had an affectionate heart .
He must love somebody .
She saw no reason against their being happy .
Louisa had fine naval fervour to begin with , and they would soon grow more alike .
He would gain cheerfulness , and she would learn to be an enthusiast for Scott and Lord Byron ; nay , that was probably learnt already ; of course they had fallen in love over poetry .
The idea of Louisa Musgrove turned into a person of literary taste , and sentimental reflection was amusing , but she had no doubt of its being so .
The day at Lyme , the fall from the Cobb , might influence her health , her nerves , her courage , her character to the end of her life , as thoroughly as it appeared to have influenced her fate .
The conclusion of the whole was , that if the woman who had been sensible of Captain Wentworth ' s merits could be allowed to prefer another man , there was nothing in the engagement to excite lasting wonder ; and if Captain Wentworth lost no friend by it , certainly nothing to be regretted .
No , it was not regret which made Anne ' s heart beat in spite of herself , and brought the colour into her cheeks when she thought of Captain Wentworth unshackled and free .
She had some feelings which she was ashamed to investigate .
They were too much like joy , senseless joy !
She longed to see the Crofts ; but when the meeting took place , it was evident that no rumour of the news had yet reached them .
The visit of ceremony was paid and returned ; and Louisa Musgrove was mentioned , and Captain Benwick , too , without even half a smile .
The Crofts had placed themselves in lodgings in Gay Street , perfectly to Sir Walter ' s satisfaction .
He was not at all ashamed of the acquaintance , and did , in fact , think and talk a great deal more about the Admiral , than the Admiral ever thought or talked about him .
The Crofts knew quite as many people in Bath as they wished for , and considered their intercourse with the Elliots as a mere matter of form , and not in the least likely to afford them any pleasure .
They brought with them their country habit of being almost always together .
He was ordered to walk to keep off the gout , and Mrs Croft seemed to go shares with him in everything , and to walk for her life to do him good .
Anne saw them wherever she went .
Lady Russell took her out in her carriage almost every morning , and she never failed to think of them , and never failed to see them .
Knowing their feelings as she did , it was a most attractive picture of happiness to her .
She always watched them as long as she could , delighted to fancy she understood what they might be talking of , as they walked along in happy independence , or equally delighted to see the Admiral ' s hearty shake of the hand when he encountered an old friend , and observe their eagerness of conversation when occasionally forming into a little knot of the navy , Mrs Croft looking as intelligent and keen as any of the officers around her .
Anne was too much engaged with Lady Russell to be often walking herself ; but it so happened that one morning , about a week or ten days after the Croft ' s arrival , it suited her best to leave her friend , or her friend ' s carriage , in the lower part of the town , and return alone to Camden Place , and in walking up Milsom Street she had the good fortune to meet with the Admiral .
He was standing by himself at a printshop window , with his hands behind him , in earnest contemplation of some print , and she not only might have passed him unseen , but was obliged to touch as well as address him before she could catch his notice .
When he did perceive and acknowledge her , however , it was done with all his usual frankness and good humour .
" Ha !
is it you ?
Thank you , thank you .
This is treating me like a friend .
Here I am , you see , staring at a picture .
I can never get by this shop without stopping .
But what a thing here is , by way of a boat !
Do look at it .
Did you ever see the like ?
What queer fellows your fine painters must be , to think that anybody would venture their lives in such a shapeless old cockleshell as that ?
And yet here are two gentlemen stuck up in it mightily at their ease , and looking about them at the rocks and mountains , as if they were not to be upset the next moment , which they certainly must be .
I wonder where that boat was built !"
( laughing heartily ); " I would not venture over a horsepond in it .
Well ," ( turning away ), " now , where are you bound ?
Can I go anywhere for you , or with you ?
Can I be of any use ?"
" None , I thank you , unless you will give me the pleasure of your company the little way our road lies together .
I am going home ."
" That I will , with all my heart , and farther , too .
Yes , yes we will have a snug walk together , and I have something to tell you as we go along .
There , take my arm ; that ' s right ; I do not feel comfortable if I have not a woman there .
Lord !
what a boat it is !"
taking a last look at the picture , as they began to be in motion .
" Did you say that you had something to tell me , sir ?"
" Yes , I have , presently .
But here comes a friend , Captain Brigden ; I shall only say , ` How d ' ye do ?'
as we pass , however .
I shall not stop .
` How d ' ye do ?'
Brigden stares to see anybody with me but my wife .
She , poor soul , is tied by the leg .
She has a blister on one of her heels , as large as a three - shilling piece .
If you look across the street , you will see Admiral Brand coming down and his brother .
Shabby fellows , both of them !
I am glad they are not on this side of the way .
Sophy cannot bear them .
They played me a pitiful trick once : got away with some of my best men .
I will tell you the whole story another time .
There comes old Sir Archibald Drew and his grandson .
Look , he sees us ; he kisses his hand to you ; he takes you for my wife .
Ah !
the peace has come too soon for that younker .
Poor old Sir Archibald !
How do you like Bath , Miss Elliot ?
It suits us very well .
We are always meeting with some old friend or other ; the streets full of them every morning ; sure to have plenty of chat ; and then we get away from them all , and shut ourselves in our lodgings , and draw in our chairs , and are snug as if we were at Kellynch , ay , or as we used to be even at North Yarmouth and Deal .
We do not like our lodgings here the worse , I can tell you , for putting us in mind of those we first had at North Yarmouth .
The wind blows through one of the cupboards just in the same way ."
When they were got a little farther , Anne ventured to press again for what he had to communicate .
She hoped when clear of Milsom Street to have her curiosity gratified ; but she was still obliged to wait , for the Admiral had made up his mind not to begin till they had gained the greater space and quiet of Belmont ; and as she was not really Mrs Croft , she must let him have his own way .
As soon as they were fairly ascending Belmont , he began --
" Well , now you shall hear something that will surprise you .
But first of all , you must tell me the name of the young lady I am going to talk about .
That young lady , you know , that we have all been so concerned for .
The Miss Musgrove , that all this has been happening to .
Her Christian name : I always forget her Christian name ."
Anne had been ashamed to appear to comprehend so soon as she really did ; but now she could safely suggest the name of " Louisa ."
" Ay , ay , Miss Louisa Musgrove , that is the name .
I wish young ladies had not such a number of fine Christian names .
I should never be out if they were all Sophys , or something of that sort .
Well , this Miss Louisa , we all thought , you know , was to marry Frederick .
He was courting her week after week .
The only wonder was , what they could be waiting for , till the business at Lyme came ; then , indeed , it was clear enough that they must wait till her brain was set to right .
But even then there was something odd in their way of going on .
Instead of staying at Lyme , he went off to Plymouth , and then he went off to see Edward .
When we came back from Minehead he was gone down to Edward ' s , and there he has been ever since .
We have seen nothing of him since November .
Even Sophy could not understand it .
But now , the matter has take the strangest turn of all ; for this young lady , the same Miss Musgrove , instead of being to marry Frederick , is to marry James Benwick .
You know James Benwick ."
" A little .
I am a little acquainted with Captain Benwick ."
" Well , she is to marry him .
Nay , most likely they are married already , for I do not know what they should wait for ."
" I thought Captain Benwick a very pleasing young man ," said Anne , " and I understand that he bears an excellent character ."
" Oh !
yes , yes , there is not a word to be said against James Benwick .
He is only a commander , it is true , made last summer , and these are bad times for getting on , but he has not another fault that I know of .
An excellent , good - hearted fellow , I assure you ; a very active , zealous officer too , which is more than you would think for , perhaps , for that soft sort of manner does not do him justice ."
" Indeed you are mistaken there , sir ; I should never augur want of spirit from Captain Benwick ' s manners .
I thought them particularly pleasing , and I will answer for it , they would generally please ."
" Well , well , ladies are the best judges ; but James Benwick is rather too piano for me ; and though very likely it is all our partiality , Sophy and I cannot help thinking Frederick ' s manners better than his .
There is something about Frederick more to our taste ."
Anne was caught .
She had only meant to oppose the too common idea of spirit and gentleness being incompatible with each other , not at all to represent Captain Benwick ' s manners as the very best that could possibly be ; and , after a little hesitation , she was beginning to say , " I was not entering into any comparison of the two friends ," but the Admiral interrupted her with --
" And the thing is certainly true .
It is not a mere bit of gossip .
We have it from Frederick himself .
His sister had a letter from him yesterday , in which he tells us of it , and he had just had it in a letter from Harville , written upon the spot , from Uppercross .
I fancy they are all at Uppercross ."
This was an opportunity which Anne could not resist ; she said , therefore , " I hope , Admiral , I hope there is nothing in the style of Captain Wentworth ' s letter to make you and Mrs Croft particularly uneasy .
It did seem , last autumn , as if there were an attachment between him and Louisa Musgrove ; but I hope it may be understood to have worn out on each side equally , and without violence .
I hope his letter does not breathe the spirit of an ill - used man ."
" Not at all , not at all ; there is not an oath or a murmur from beginning to end ."
Anne looked down to hide her smile .
" No , no ; Frederick is not a man to whine and complain ; he has too much spirit for that .
If the girl likes another man better , it is very fit she should have him ."
" Certainly .
But what I mean is , that I hope there is nothing in Captain Wentworth ' s manner of writing to make you suppose he thinks himself ill - used by his friend , which might appear , you know , without its being absolutely said .
I should be very sorry that such a friendship as has subsisted between him and Captain Benwick should be destroyed , or even wounded , by a circumstance of this sort ."
" Yes , yes , I understand you .
But there is nothing at all of that nature in the letter .
He does not give the least fling at Benwick ; does not so much as say , ` I wonder at it , I have a reason of my own for wondering at it .'
No , you would not guess , from his way of writing , that he had ever thought of this Miss ( what ' s her name ?)
for himself .
He very handsomely hopes they will be happy together ; and there is nothing very unforgiving in that , I think ."
Anne did not receive the perfect conviction which the Admiral meant to convey , but it would have been useless to press the enquiry farther .
She therefore satisfied herself with common - place remarks or quiet attention , and the Admiral had it all his own way .
" Poor Frederick !"
said he at last .
" Now he must begin all over again with somebody else .
I think we must get him to Bath .
Sophy must write , and beg him to come to Bath .
Here are pretty girls enough , I am sure .
It would be of no use to go to Uppercross again , for that other Miss Musgrove , I find , is bespoke by her cousin , the young parson .
Do not you think , Miss Elliot , we had better try to get him to Bath ?"
Chapter 19
While Admiral Croft was taking this walk with Anne , and expressing his wish of getting Captain Wentworth to Bath , Captain Wentworth was already on his way thither .
Before Mrs Croft had written , he was arrived , and the very next time Anne walked out , she saw him .
Mr Elliot was attending his two cousins and Mrs Clay .
They were in Milsom Street .
It began to rain , not much , but enough to make shelter desirable for women , and quite enough to make it very desirable for Miss Elliot to have the advantage of being conveyed home in Lady Dalrymple ' s carriage , which was seen waiting at a little distance ; she , Anne , and Mrs Clay , therefore , turned into Molland ' s , while Mr Elliot stepped to Lady Dalrymple , to request her assistance .
He soon joined them again , successful , of course ; Lady Dalrymple would be most happy to take them home , and would call for them in a few minutes .
Her ladyship ' s carriage was a barouche , and did not hold more than four with any comfort .
Miss Carteret was with her mother ; consequently it was not reasonable to expect accommodation for all the three Camden Place ladies .
There could be no doubt as to Miss Elliot .
Whoever suffered inconvenience , she must suffer none , but it occupied a little time to settle the point of civility between the other two .
The rain was a mere trifle , and Anne was most sincere in preferring a walk with Mr Elliot .
But the rain was also a mere trifle to Mrs Clay ; she would hardly allow it even to drop at all , and her boots were so thick !
much thicker than Miss Anne ' s ; and , in short , her civility rendered her quite as anxious to be left to walk with Mr Elliot as Anne could be , and it was discussed between them with a generosity so polite and so determined , that the others were obliged to settle it for them ; Miss Elliot maintaining that Mrs Clay had a little cold already , and Mr Elliot deciding on appeal , that his cousin Anne ' s boots were rather the thickest .
It was fixed accordingly , that Mrs Clay should be of the party in the carriage ; and they had just reached this point , when Anne , as she sat near the window , descried , most decidedly and distinctly , Captain Wentworth walking down the street .
Her start was perceptible only to herself ; but she instantly felt that she was the greatest simpleton in the world , the most unaccountable and absurd !
For a few minutes she saw nothing before her ; it was all confusion .
She was lost , and when she had scolded back her senses , she found the others still waiting for the carriage , and Mr Elliot ( always obliging ) just setting off for Union Street on a commission of Mrs Clay ' s .
She now felt a great inclination to go to the outer door ; she wanted to see if it rained .
Why was she to suspect herself of another motive ?
Captain Wentworth must be out of sight .
She left her seat , she would go ; one half of her should not be always so much wiser than the other half , or always suspecting the other of being worse than it was .
She would see if it rained .
She was sent back , however , in a moment by the entrance of Captain Wentworth himself , among a party of gentlemen and ladies , evidently his acquaintance , and whom he must have joined a little below Milsom Street .
He was more obviously struck and confused by the sight of her than she had ever observed before ; he looked quite red .
For the first time , since their renewed acquaintance , she felt that she was betraying the least sensibility of the two .
She had the advantage of him in the preparation of the last few moments .
All the overpowering , blinding , bewildering , first effects of strong surprise were over with her .
Still , however , she had enough to feel !
It was agitation , pain , pleasure , a something between delight and misery .
He spoke to her , and then turned away .
The character of his manner was embarrassment .
She could not have called it either cold or friendly , or anything so certainly as embarrassed .
After a short interval , however , he came towards her , and spoke again .
Mutual enquiries on common subjects passed : neither of them , probably , much the wiser for what they heard , and Anne continuing fully sensible of his being less at ease than formerly .
They had by dint of being so very much together , got to speak to each other with a considerable portion of apparent indifference and calmness ; but he could not do it now .
Time had changed him , or Louisa had changed him .
There was consciousness of some sort or other .
He looked very well , not as if he had been suffering in health or spirits , and he talked of Uppercross , of the Musgroves , nay , even of Louisa , and had even a momentary look of his own arch significance as he named her ; but yet it was Captain Wentworth not comfortable , not easy , not able to feign that he was .
It did not surprise , but it grieved Anne to observe that Elizabeth would not know him .
She saw that he saw Elizabeth , that Elizabeth saw him , that there was complete internal recognition on each side ; she was convinced that he was ready to be acknowledged as an acquaintance , expecting it , and she had the pain of seeing her sister turn away with unalterable coldness .
Lady Dalrymple ' s carriage , for which Miss Elliot was growing very impatient , now drew up ; the servant came in to announce it .
It was beginning to rain again , and altogether there was a delay , and a bustle , and a talking , which must make all the little crowd in the shop understand that Lady Dalrymple was calling to convey Miss Elliot .
At last Miss Elliot and her friend , unattended but by the servant , ( for there was no cousin returned ), were walking off ; and Captain Wentworth , watching them , turned again to Anne , and by manner , rather than words , was offering his services to her .
" I am much obliged to you ," was her answer , " but I am not going with them .
The carriage would not accommodate so many .
I walk : I prefer walking ."
" But it rains ."
" Oh !
very little , Nothing that I regard ."
After a moment ' s pause he said : " Though I came only yesterday , I have equipped myself properly for Bath already , you see ," ( pointing to a new umbrella ); " I wish you would make use of it , if you are determined to walk ; though I think it would be more prudent to let me get you a chair ."
She was very much obliged to him , but declined it all , repeating her conviction , that the rain would come to nothing at present , and adding , " I am only waiting for Mr Elliot .
He will be here in a moment , I am sure ."
She had hardly spoken the words when Mr Elliot walked in .
Captain Wentworth recollected him perfectly .
There was no difference between him and the man who had stood on the steps at Lyme , admiring Anne as she passed , except in the air and look and manner of the privileged relation and friend .
He came in with eagerness , appeared to see and think only of her , apologised for his stay , was grieved to have kept her waiting , and anxious to get her away without further loss of time and before the rain increased ; and in another moment they walked off together , her arm under his , a gentle and embarrassed glance , and a " Good morning to you !"
being all that she had time for , as she passed away .
As soon as they were out of sight , the ladies of Captain Wentworth ' s party began talking of them .
" Mr Elliot does not dislike his cousin , I fancy ?"
" Oh !
no , that is clear enough .
One can guess what will happen there .
He is always with them ; half lives in the family , I believe .
What a very good - looking man !"
" Yes , and Miss Atkinson , who dined with him once at the Wallises , says he is the most agreeable man she ever was in company with ."
" She is pretty , I think ; Anne Elliot ; very pretty , when one comes to look at her .
It is not the fashion to say so , but I confess I admire her more than her sister ."
" Oh !
so do I ."
" And so do I .
No comparison .
But the men are all wild after Miss Elliot .
Anne is too delicate for them ."
Anne would have been particularly obliged to her cousin , if he would have walked by her side all the way to Camden Place , without saying a word .
She had never found it so difficult to listen to him , though nothing could exceed his solicitude and care , and though his subjects were principally such as were wont to be always interesting : praise , warm , just , and discriminating , of Lady Russell , and insinuations highly rational against Mrs Clay .
But just now she could think only of Captain Wentworth .
She could not understand his present feelings , whether he were really suffering much from disappointment or not ; and till that point were settled , she could not be quite herself .
She hoped to be wise and reasonable in time ; but alas !
alas !
she must confess to herself that she was not wise yet .
Another circumstance very essential for her to know , was how long he meant to be in Bath ; he had not mentioned it , or she could not recollect it .
He might be only passing through .
But it was more probable that he should be come to stay .
In that case , so liable as every body was to meet every body in Bath , Lady Russell would in all likelihood see him somewhere .
Would she recollect him ?
How would it all be ?
She had already been obliged to tell Lady Russell that Louisa Musgrove was to marry Captain Benwick .
It had cost her something to encounter Lady Russell ' s surprise ; and now , if she were by any chance to be thrown into company with Captain Wentworth , her imperfect knowledge of the matter might add another shade of prejudice against him .
The following morning Anne was out with her friend , and for the first hour , in an incessant and fearful sort of watch for him in vain ; but at last , in returning down Pulteney Street , she distinguished him on the right hand pavement at such a distance as to have him in view the greater part of the street .
There were many other men about him , many groups walking the same way , but there was no mistaking him .
She looked instinctively at Lady Russell ; but not from any mad idea of her recognising him so soon as she did herself .
No , it was not to be supposed that Lady Russell would perceive him till they were nearly opposite .
She looked at her however , from time to time , anxiously ; and when the moment approached which must point him out , though not daring to look again ( for her own countenance she knew was unfit to be seen ), she was yet perfectly conscious of Lady Russell ' s eyes being turned exactly in the direction for him -- of her being , in short , intently observing him .
She could thoroughly comprehend the sort of fascination he must possess over Lady Russell ' s mind , the difficulty it must be for her to withdraw her eyes , the astonishment she must be feeling that eight or nine years should have passed over him , and in foreign climes and in active service too , without robbing him of one personal grace !
At last , Lady Russell drew back her head .
" Now , how would she speak of him ?"
" You will wonder ," said she , " what has been fixing my eye so long ; but I was looking after some window - curtains , which Lady Alicia and Mrs Frankland were telling me of last night .
They described the drawing - room window - curtains of one of the houses on this side of the way , and this part of the street , as being the handsomest and best hung of any in Bath , but could not recollect the exact number , and I have been trying to find out which it could be ; but I confess I can see no curtains hereabouts that answer their description ."
Anne sighed and blushed and smiled , in pity and disdain , either at her friend or herself .
The part which provoked her most , was that in all this waste of foresight and caution , she should have lost the right moment for seeing whether he saw them .
A day or two passed without producing anything .
The theatre or the rooms , where he was most likely to be , were not fashionable enough for the Elliots , whose evening amusements were solely in the elegant stupidity of private parties , in which they were getting more and more engaged ; and Anne , wearied of such a state of stagnation , sick of knowing nothing , and fancying herself stronger because her strength was not tried , was quite impatient for the concert evening .
It was a concert for the benefit of a person patronised by Lady Dalrymple .
Of course they must attend .
It was really expected to be a good one , and Captain Wentworth was very fond of music .
If she could only have a few minutes conversation with him again , she fancied she should be satisfied ; and as to the power of addressing him , she felt all over courage if the opportunity occurred .
Elizabeth had turned from him , Lady Russell overlooked him ; her nerves were strengthened by these circumstances ; she felt that she owed him attention .
She had once partly promised Mrs Smith to spend the evening with her ; but in a short hurried call she excused herself and put it off , with the more decided promise of a longer visit on the morrow .
Mrs Smith gave a most good - humoured acquiescence .
" By all means ," said she ; " only tell me all about it , when you do come .
Who is your party ?"
Anne named them all .
Mrs Smith made no reply ; but when she was leaving her said , and with an expression half serious , half arch , " Well , I heartily wish your concert may answer ; and do not fail me to - morrow if you can come ; for I begin to have a foreboding that I may not have many more visits from you ."
Anne was startled and confused ; but after standing in a moment ' s suspense , was obliged , and not sorry to be obliged , to hurry away .
Chapter 20
Sir Walter , his two daughters , and Mrs Clay , were the earliest of all their party at the rooms in the evening ; and as Lady Dalrymple must be waited for , they took their station by one of the fires in the Octagon Room .
But hardly were they so settled , when the door opened again , and Captain Wentworth walked in alone .
Anne was the nearest to him , and making yet a little advance , she instantly spoke .
He was preparing only to bow and pass on , but her gentle " How do you do ?"
brought him out of the straight line to stand near her , and make enquiries in return , in spite of the formidable father and sister in the back ground .
Their being in the back ground was a support to Anne ; she knew nothing of their looks , and felt equal to everything which she believed right to be done .
While they were speaking , a whispering between her father and Elizabeth caught her ear .
She could not distinguish , but she must guess the subject ; and on Captain Wentworth ' s making a distant bow , she comprehended that her father had judged so well as to give him that simple acknowledgement of acquaintance , and she was just in time by a side glance to see a slight curtsey from Elizabeth herself .
This , though late , and reluctant , and ungracious , was yet better than nothing , and her spirits improved .
After talking , however , of the weather , and Bath , and the concert , their conversation began to flag , and so little was said at last , that she was expecting him to go every moment , but he did not ; he seemed in no hurry to leave her ; and presently with renewed spirit , with a little smile , a little glow , he said --
" I have hardly seen you since our day at Lyme .
I am afraid you must have suffered from the shock , and the more from its not overpowering you at the time ."
She assured him that she had not .
" It was a frightful hour ," said he , " a frightful day !"
and he passed his hand across his eyes , as if the remembrance were still too painful , but in a moment , half smiling again , added , " The day has produced some effects however ; has had some consequences which must be considered as the very reverse of frightful .
When you had the presence of mind to suggest that Benwick would be the properest person to fetch a surgeon , you could have little idea of his being eventually one of those most concerned in her recovery ."
" Certainly I could have none .
But it appears -- I should hope it would be a very happy match .
There are on both sides good principles and good temper ."
" Yes ," said he , looking not exactly forward ; " but there , I think , ends the resemblance .
With all my soul I wish them happy , and rejoice over every circumstance in favour of it .
They have no difficulties to contend with at home , no opposition , no caprice , no delays .
The Musgroves are behaving like themselves , most honourably and kindly , only anxious with true parental hearts to promote their daughter ' s comfort .
All this is much , very much in favour of their happiness ; more than perhaps --"
He stopped .
A sudden recollection seemed to occur , and to give him some taste of that emotion which was reddening Anne ' s cheeks and fixing her eyes on the ground .
After clearing his throat , however , he proceeded thus --
" I confess that I do think there is a disparity , too great a disparity , and in a point no less essential than mind .
I regard Louisa Musgrove as a very amiable , sweet - tempered girl , and not deficient in understanding , but Benwick is something more .
He is a clever man , a reading man ; and I confess , that I do consider his attaching himself to her with some surprise .
Had it been the effect of gratitude , had he learnt to love her , because he believed her to be preferring him , it would have been another thing .
But I have no reason to suppose it so .
It seems , on the contrary , to have been a perfectly spontaneous , untaught feeling on his side , and this surprises me .
A man like him , in his situation !
with a heart pierced , wounded , almost broken !
Fanny Harville was a very superior creature , and his attachment to her was indeed attachment .
A man does not recover from such a devotion of the heart to such a woman .
He ought not ; he does not ."
Either from the consciousness , however , that his friend had recovered , or from other consciousness , he went no farther ; and Anne who , in spite of the agitated voice in which the latter part had been uttered , and in spite of all the various noises of the room , the almost ceaseless slam of the door , and ceaseless buzz of persons walking through , had distinguished every word , was struck , gratified , confused , and beginning to breathe very quick , and feel an hundred things in a moment .
It was impossible for her to enter on such a subject ; and yet , after a pause , feeling the necessity of speaking , and having not the smallest wish for a total change , she only deviated so far as to say --
" You were a good while at Lyme , I think ?"
" About a fortnight .
I could not leave it till Louisa ' s doing well was quite ascertained .
I had been too deeply concerned in the mischief to be soon at peace .
It had been my doing , solely mine .
She would not have been obstinate if I had not been weak .
The country round Lyme is very fine .
I walked and rode a great deal ; and the more I saw , the more I found to admire ."
" I should very much like to see Lyme again ," said Anne .
" Indeed !
I should not have supposed that you could have found anything in Lyme to inspire such a feeling .
The horror and distress you were involved in , the stretch of mind , the wear of spirits !
I should have thought your last impressions of Lyme must have been strong disgust ."
" The last hours were certainly very painful ," replied Anne ; " but when pain is over , the remembrance of it often becomes a pleasure .
One does not love a place the less for having suffered in it , unless it has been all suffering , nothing but suffering , which was by no means the case at Lyme .
We were only in anxiety and distress during the last two hours , and previously there had been a great deal of enjoyment .
So much novelty and beauty !
I have travelled so little , that every fresh place would be interesting to me ; but there is real beauty at Lyme ; and in short " ( with a faint blush at some recollections ), " altogether my impressions of the place are very agreeable ."
As she ceased , the entrance door opened again , and the very party appeared for whom they were waiting .
" Lady Dalrymple , Lady Dalrymple ," was the rejoicing sound ; and with all the eagerness compatible with anxious elegance , Sir Walter and his two ladies stepped forward to meet her .
Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret , escorted by Mr Elliot and Colonel Wallis , who had happened to arrive nearly at the same instant , advanced into the room .
The others joined them , and it was a group in which Anne found herself also necessarily included .
She was divided from Captain Wentworth .
Their interesting , almost too interesting conversation must be broken up for a time , but slight was the penance compared with the happiness which brought it on !
She had learnt , in the last ten minutes , more of his feelings towards Louisa , more of all his feelings than she dared to think of ; and she gave herself up to the demands of the party , to the needful civilities of the moment , with exquisite , though agitated sensations .
She was in good humour with all .
She had received ideas which disposed her to be courteous and kind to all , and to pity every one , as being less happy than herself .
The delightful emotions were a little subdued , when on stepping back from the group , to be joined again by Captain Wentworth , she saw that he was gone .
She was just in time to see him turn into the Concert Room .
He was gone ; he had disappeared , she felt a moment ' s regret .
But " they should meet again .
He would look for her , he would find her out before the evening were over , and at present , perhaps , it was as well to be asunder .
She was in need of a little interval for recollection ."
Upon Lady Russell ' s appearance soon afterwards , the whole party was collected , and all that remained was to marshal themselves , and proceed into the Concert Room ; and be of all the consequence in their power , draw as many eyes , excite as many whispers , and disturb as many people as they could .
Very , very happy were both Elizabeth and Anne Elliot as they walked in .
Elizabeth arm in arm with Miss Carteret , and looking on the broad back of the dowager Viscountess Dalrymple before her , had nothing to wish for which did not seem within her reach ; and Anne -- but it would be an insult to the nature of Anne ' s felicity , to draw any comparison between it and her sister ' s ; the origin of one all selfish vanity , of the other all generous attachment .
Anne saw nothing , thought nothing of the brilliancy of the room .
Her happiness was from within .
Her eyes were bright and her cheeks glowed ; but she knew nothing about it .
She was thinking only of the last half hour , and as they passed to their seats , her mind took a hasty range over it .
His choice of subjects , his expressions , and still more his manner and look , had been such as she could see in only one light .
His opinion of Louisa Musgrove ' s inferiority , an opinion which he had seemed solicitous to give , his wonder at Captain Benwick , his feelings as to a first , strong attachment ; sentences begun which he could not finish , his half averted eyes and more than half expressive glance , all , all declared that he had a heart returning to her at least ; that anger , resentment , avoidance , were no more ; and that they were succeeded , not merely by friendship and regard , but by the tenderness of the past .
Yes , some share of the tenderness of the past .
She could not contemplate the change as implying less .
He must love her .
These were thoughts , with their attendant visions , which occupied and flurried her too much to leave her any power of observation ; and she passed along the room without having a glimpse of him , without even trying to discern him .
When their places were determined on , and they were all properly arranged , she looked round to see if he should happen to be in the same part of the room , but he was not ; her eye could not reach him ; and the concert being just opening , she must consent for a time to be happy in a humbler way .
The party was divided and disposed of on two contiguous benches : Anne was among those on the foremost , and Mr Elliot had manoeuvred so well , with the assistance of his friend Colonel Wallis , as to have a seat by her .
Miss Elliot , surrounded by her cousins , and the principal object of Colonel Wallis ' s gallantry , was quite contented .
Anne ' s mind was in a most favourable state for the entertainment of the evening ; it was just occupation enough : she had feelings for the tender , spirits for the gay , attention for the scientific , and patience for the wearisome ; and had never liked a concert better , at least during the first act .
Towards the close of it , in the interval succeeding an Italian song , she explained the words of the song to Mr Elliot .
They had a concert bill between them .
" This ," said she , " is nearly the sense , or rather the meaning of the words , for certainly the sense of an Italian love - song must not be talked of , but it is as nearly the meaning as I can give ; for I do not pretend to understand the language .
I am a very poor Italian scholar ."
" Yes , yes , I see you are .
I see you know nothing of the matter .
You have only knowledge enough of the language to translate at sight these inverted , transposed , curtailed Italian lines , into clear , comprehensible , elegant English .
You need not say anything more of your ignorance .
Here is complete proof ."
" I will not oppose such kind politeness ; but I should be sorry to be examined by a real proficient ."
" I have not had the pleasure of visiting in Camden Place so long ," replied he , " without knowing something of Miss Anne Elliot ; and I do regard her as one who is too modest for the world in general to be aware of half her accomplishments , and too highly accomplished for modesty to be natural in any other woman ."
" For shame !
for shame !
this is too much flattery .
I forget what we are to have next ," turning to the bill .
" Perhaps ," said Mr Elliot , speaking low , " I have had a longer acquaintance with your character than you are aware of ."
" Indeed !
How so ?
You can have been acquainted with it only since I came to Bath , excepting as you might hear me previously spoken of in my own family ."
" I knew you by report long before you came to Bath .
I had heard you described by those who knew you intimately .
I have been acquainted with you by character many years .
Your person , your disposition , accomplishments , manner ; they were all present to me ."
Mr Elliot was not disappointed in the interest he hoped to raise .
No one can withstand the charm of such a mystery .
To have been described long ago to a recent acquaintance , by nameless people , is irresistible ; and Anne was all curiosity .
She wondered , and questioned him eagerly ; but in vain .
He delighted in being asked , but he would not tell .
" No , no , some time or other , perhaps , but not now .
He would mention no names now ; but such , he could assure her , had been the fact .
He had many years ago received such a description of Miss Anne Elliot as had inspired him with the highest idea of her merit , and excited the warmest curiosity to know her ."
Anne could think of no one so likely to have spoken with partiality of her many years ago as the Mr Wentworth of Monkford , Captain Wentworth ' s brother .
He might have been in Mr Elliot ' s company , but she had not courage to ask the question .
" The name of Anne Elliot ," said he , " has long had an interesting sound to me .
Very long has it possessed a charm over my fancy ; and , if I dared , I would breathe my wishes that the name might never change ."
Such , she believed , were his words ; but scarcely had she received their sound , than her attention was caught by other sounds immediately behind her , which rendered every thing else trivial .
Her father and Lady Dalrymple were speaking .
" A well - looking man ," said Sir Walter , " a very well - looking man ."
" A very fine young man indeed !"
said Lady Dalrymple .
" More air than one often sees in Bath .
Irish , I dare say ."
" No , I just know his name .
A bowing acquaintance .
Wentworth ; Captain Wentworth of the navy .
His sister married my tenant in Somersetshire , the Croft , who rents Kellynch ."
Before Sir Walter had reached this point , Anne ' s eyes had caught the right direction , and distinguished Captain Wentworth standing among a cluster of men at a little distance .
As her eyes fell on him , his seemed to be withdrawn from her .
It had that appearance .
It seemed as if she had been one moment too late ; and as long as she dared observe , he did not look again : but the performance was recommencing , and she was forced to seem to restore her attention to the orchestra and look straight forward .
When she could give another glance , he had moved away .
He could not have come nearer to her if he would ; she was so surrounded and shut in : but she would rather have caught his eye .
Mr Elliot ' s speech , too , distressed her .
She had no longer any inclination to talk to him .
She wished him not so near her .
The first act was over .
Now she hoped for some beneficial change ; and , after a period of nothing - saying amongst the party , some of them did decide on going in quest of tea .
Anne was one of the few who did not choose to move .
She remained in her seat , and so did Lady Russell ; but she had the pleasure of getting rid of Mr Elliot ; and she did not mean , whatever she might feel on Lady Russell ' s account , to shrink from conversation with Captain Wentworth , if he gave her the opportunity .
She was persuaded by Lady Russell ' s countenance that she had seen him .
He did not come however .
Anne sometimes fancied she discerned him at a distance , but he never came .
The anxious interval wore away unproductively .
The others returned , the room filled again , benches were reclaimed and repossessed , and another hour of pleasure or of penance was to be sat out , another hour of music was to give delight or the gapes , as real or affected taste for it prevailed .
To Anne , it chiefly wore the prospect of an hour of agitation .
She could not quit that room in peace without seeing Captain Wentworth once more , without the interchange of one friendly look .
In re - settling themselves there were now many changes , the result of which was favourable for her .
Colonel Wallis declined sitting down again , and Mr Elliot was invited by Elizabeth and Miss Carteret , in a manner not to be refused , to sit between them ; and by some other removals , and a little scheming of her own , Anne was enabled to place herself much nearer the end of the bench than she had been before , much more within reach of a passer - by .
She could not do so , without comparing herself with Miss Larolles , the inimitable Miss Larolles ; but still she did it , and not with much happier effect ; though by what seemed prosperity in the shape of an early abdication in her next neighbours , she found herself at the very end of the bench before the concert closed .
Such was her situation , with a vacant space at hand , when Captain Wentworth was again in sight .
She saw him not far off .
He saw her too ; yet he looked grave , and seemed irresolute , and only by very slow degrees came at last near enough to speak to her .
She felt that something must be the matter .
The change was indubitable .
The difference between his present air and what it had been in the Octagon Room was strikingly great .
Why was it ?
She thought of her father , of Lady Russell .
Could there have been any unpleasant glances ?
He began by speaking of the concert gravely , more like the Captain Wentworth of Uppercross ; owned himself disappointed , had expected singing ; and in short , must confess that he should not be sorry when it was over .
Anne replied , and spoke in defence of the performance so well , and yet in allowance for his feelings so pleasantly , that his countenance improved , and he replied again with almost a smile .
They talked for a few minutes more ; the improvement held ; he even looked down towards the bench , as if he saw a place on it well worth occupying ; when at that moment a touch on her shoulder obliged Anne to turn round .
It came from Mr Elliot .
He begged her pardon , but she must be applied to , to explain Italian again .
Miss Carteret was very anxious to have a general idea of what was next to be sung .
Anne could not refuse ; but never had she sacrificed to politeness with a more suffering spirit .
A few minutes , though as few as possible , were inevitably consumed ; and when her own mistress again , when able to turn and look as she had done before , she found herself accosted by Captain Wentworth , in a reserved yet hurried sort of farewell .
" He must wish her good night ; he was going ; he should get home as fast as he could ."
" Is not this song worth staying for ?"
said Anne , suddenly struck by an idea which made her yet more anxious to be encouraging .
" No !"
he replied impressively , " there is nothing worth my staying for ;" and he was gone directly .
Jealousy of Mr Elliot !
It was the only intelligible motive .
Captain Wentworth jealous of her affection !
Could she have believed it a week ago ; three hours ago !
For a moment the gratification was exquisite .
But , alas !
there were very different thoughts to succeed .
How was such jealousy to be quieted ?
How was the truth to reach him ?
How , in all the peculiar disadvantages of their respective situations , would he ever learn of her real sentiments ?
It was misery to think of Mr Elliot ' s attentions .
Their evil was incalculable .
Chapter 21
Anne recollected with pleasure the next morning her promise of going to Mrs Smith , meaning that it should engage her from home at the time when Mr Elliot would be most likely to call ; for to avoid Mr Elliot was almost a first object .
She felt a great deal of good - will towards him .
In spite of the mischief of his attentions , she owed him gratitude and regard , perhaps compassion .
She could not help thinking much of the extraordinary circumstances attending their acquaintance , of the right which he seemed to have to interest her , by everything in situation , by his own sentiments , by his early prepossession .
It was altogether very extraordinary ; flattering , but painful .
There was much to regret .
How she might have felt had there been no Captain Wentworth in the case , was not worth enquiry ; for there was a Captain Wentworth ; and be the conclusion of the present suspense good or bad , her affection would be his for ever .
Their union , she believed , could not divide her more from other men , than their final separation .
Prettier musings of high - wrought love and eternal constancy , could never have passed along the streets of Bath , than Anne was sporting with from Camden Place to Westgate Buildings .
It was almost enough to spread purification and perfume all the way .
She was sure of a pleasant reception ; and her friend seemed this morning particularly obliged to her for coming , seemed hardly to have expected her , though it had been an appointment .
An account of the concert was immediately claimed ; and Anne ' s recollections of the concert were quite happy enough to animate her features and make her rejoice to talk of it .
All that she could tell she told most gladly , but the all was little for one who had been there , and unsatisfactory for such an enquirer as Mrs Smith , who had already heard , through the short cut of a laundress and a waiter , rather more of the general success and produce of the evening than Anne could relate , and who now asked in vain for several particulars of the company .
Everybody of any consequence or notoriety in Bath was well know by name to Mrs Smith .
" The little Durands were there , I conclude ," said she , " with their mouths open to catch the music , like unfledged sparrows ready to be fed .
They never miss a concert ."
" Yes ; I did not see them myself , but I heard Mr Elliot say they were in the room ."
" The Ibbotsons , were they there ?
and the two new beauties , with the tall Irish officer , who is talked of for one of them ."
" I do not know .
I do not think they were ."
" Old Lady Mary Maclean ?
I need not ask after her .
She never misses , I know ; and you must have seen her .
She must have been in your own circle ; for as you went with Lady Dalrymple , you were in the seats of grandeur , round the orchestra , of course ."
" No , that was what I dreaded .
It would have been very unpleasant to me in every respect .
But happily Lady Dalrymple always chooses to be farther off ; and we were exceedingly well placed , that is , for hearing ; I must not say for seeing , because I appear to have seen very little ."
" Oh !
you saw enough for your own amusement .
I can understand .
There is a sort of domestic enjoyment to be known even in a crowd , and this you had .
You were a large party in yourselves , and you wanted nothing beyond ."
" But I ought to have looked about me more ," said Anne , conscious while she spoke that there had in fact been no want of looking about , that the object only had been deficient .
" No , no ; you were better employed .
You need not tell me that you had a pleasant evening .
I see it in your eye .
I perfectly see how the hours passed : that you had always something agreeable to listen to .
In the intervals of the concert it was conversation ."
Anne half smiled and said , " Do you see that in my eye ?"
" Yes , I do .
Your countenance perfectly informs me that you were in company last night with the person whom you think the most agreeable in the world , the person who interests you at this present time more than all the rest of the world put together ."
A blush overspread Anne ' s cheeks .
She could say nothing .
" And such being the case ," continued Mrs Smith , after a short pause , " I hope you believe that I do know how to value your kindness in coming to me this morning .
It is really very good of you to come and sit with me , when you must have so many pleasanter demands upon your time ."
Anne heard nothing of this .
She was still in the astonishment and confusion excited by her friend ' s penetration , unable to imagine how any report of Captain Wentworth could have reached her .
After another short silence --
" Pray ," said Mrs Smith , " is Mr Elliot aware of your acquaintance with me ?
Does he know that I am in Bath ?"
" Mr Elliot !"
repeated Anne , looking up surprised .
A moment ' s reflection shewed her the mistake she had been under .
She caught it instantaneously ; and recovering her courage with the feeling of safety , soon added , more composedly , " Are you acquainted with Mr Elliot ?"
" I have been a good deal acquainted with him ," replied Mrs Smith , gravely , " but it seems worn out now .
It is a great while since we met ."
" I was not at all aware of this .
You never mentioned it before .
Had I known it , I would have had the pleasure of talking to him about you ."
" To confess the truth ," said Mrs Smith , assuming her usual air of cheerfulness , " that is exactly the pleasure I want you to have .
I want you to talk about me to Mr Elliot .
I want your interest with him .
He can be of essential service to me ; and if you would have the goodness , my dear Miss Elliot , to make it an object to yourself , of course it is done ."
" I should be extremely happy ; I hope you cannot doubt my willingness to be of even the slightest use to you ," replied Anne ; " but I suspect that you are considering me as having a higher claim on Mr Elliot , a greater right to influence him , than is really the case .
I am sure you have , somehow or other , imbibed such a notion .
You must consider me only as Mr Elliot ' s relation .
If in that light there is anything which you suppose his cousin might fairly ask of him , I beg you would not hesitate to employ me ."
Mrs Smith gave her a penetrating glance , and then , smiling , said --
" I have been a little premature , I perceive ; I beg your pardon .
I ought to have waited for official information , But now , my dear Miss Elliot , as an old friend , do give me a hint as to when I may speak .
Next week ?
To be sure by next week I may be allowed to think it all settled , and build my own selfish schemes on Mr Elliot ' s good fortune ."
" No ," replied Anne , " nor next week , nor next , nor next .
I assure you that nothing of the sort you are thinking of will be settled any week .
I am not going to marry Mr Elliot .
I should like to know why you imagine I am ?"
Mrs Smith looked at her again , looked earnestly , smiled , shook her head , and exclaimed --
" Now , how I do wish I understood you !
How I do wish I knew what you were at !
I have a great idea that you do not design to be cruel , when the right moment occurs .
Till it does come , you know , we women never mean to have anybody .
It is a thing of course among us , that every man is refused , till he offers .
But why should you be cruel ?
Let me plead for my -- present friend I cannot call him , but for my former friend .
Where can you look for a more suitable match ?
Where could you expect a more gentlemanlike , agreeable man ?
Let me recommend Mr Elliot .
I am sure you hear nothing but good of him from Colonel Wallis ; and who can know him better than Colonel Wallis ?"
" My dear Mrs Smith , Mr Elliot ' s wife has not been dead much above half a year .
He ought not to be supposed to be paying his addresses to any one ."
" Oh !
if these are your only objections ," cried Mrs Smith , archly , " Mr Elliot is safe , and I shall give myself no more trouble about him .
Do not forget me when you are married , that ' s all .
Let him know me to be a friend of yours , and then he will think little of the trouble required , which it is very natural for him now , with so many affairs and engagements of his own , to avoid and get rid of as he can ; very natural , perhaps .
Ninety - nine out of a hundred would do the same .
Of course , he cannot be aware of the importance to me .
Well , my dear Miss Elliot , I hope and trust you will be very happy .
Mr Elliot has sense to understand the value of such a woman .
Your peace will not be shipwrecked as mine has been .
You are safe in all worldly matters , and safe in his character .
He will not be led astray ; he will not be misled by others to his ruin ."
" No ," said Anne , " I can readily believe all that of my cousin .
He seems to have a calm decided temper , not at all open to dangerous impressions .
I consider him with great respect .
I have no reason , from any thing that has fallen within my observation , to do otherwise .
But I have not known him long ; and he is not a man , I think , to be known intimately soon .
Will not this manner of speaking of him , Mrs Smith , convince you that he is nothing to me ?
Surely this must be calm enough .
And , upon my word , he is nothing to me .
Should he ever propose to me ( which I have very little reason to imagine he has any thought of doing ), I shall not accept him .
I assure you I shall not .
I assure you , Mr Elliot had not the share which you have been supposing , in whatever pleasure the concert of last night might afford : not Mr Elliot ; it is not Mr Elliot that --"
She stopped , regretting with a deep blush that she had implied so much ; but less would hardly have been sufficient .
Mrs Smith would hardly have believed so soon in Mr Elliot ' s failure , but from the perception of there being a somebody else .
As it was , she instantly submitted , and with all the semblance of seeing nothing beyond ; and Anne , eager to escape farther notice , was impatient to know why Mrs Smith should have fancied she was to marry Mr Elliot ; where she could have received the idea , or from whom she could have heard it .
" Do tell me how it first came into your head ."
" It first came into my head ," replied Mrs Smith , " upon finding how much you were together , and feeling it to be the most probable thing in the world to be wished for by everybody belonging to either of you ; and you may depend upon it that all your acquaintance have disposed of you in the same way .
But I never heard it spoken of till two days ago ."
" And has it indeed been spoken of ?"
" Did you observe the woman who opened the door to you when you called yesterday ?"
" No .
Was not it Mrs Speed , as usual , or the maid ?
I observed no one in particular ."
" It was my friend Mrs Rooke ; Nurse Rooke ; who , by - the - bye , had a great curiosity to see you , and was delighted to be in the way to let you in .
She came away from Marlborough Buildings only on Sunday ; and she it was who told me you were to marry Mr Elliot .
She had had it from Mrs Wallis herself , which did not seem bad authority .
She sat an hour with me on Monday evening , and gave me the whole history ."
" The whole history ," repeated Anne , laughing .
" She could not make a very long history , I think , of one such little article of unfounded news ."
Mrs Smith said nothing .
" But ," continued Anne , presently , " though there is no truth in my having this claim on Mr Elliot , I should be extremely happy to be of use to you in any way that I could .
Shall I mention to him your being in Bath ?
Shall I take any message ?"
" No , I thank you : no , certainly not .
In the warmth of the moment , and under a mistaken impression , I might , perhaps , have endeavoured to interest you in some circumstances ; but not now .
No , I thank you , I have nothing to trouble you with ."
" I think you spoke of having known Mr Elliot many years ?"
" I did ."
" Not before he was married , I suppose ?"
" Yes ; he was not married when I knew him first ."
" And -- were you much acquainted ?"
" Intimately ."
" Indeed !
Then do tell me what he was at that time of life .
I have a great curiosity to know what Mr Elliot was as a very young man .
Was he at all such as he appears now ?"
" I have not seen Mr Elliot these three years ," was Mrs Smith ' s answer , given so gravely that it was impossible to pursue the subject farther ; and Anne felt that she had gained nothing but an increase of curiosity .
They were both silent : Mrs Smith very thoughtful .
At last --
" I beg your pardon , my dear Miss Elliot ," she cried , in her natural tone of cordiality , " I beg your pardon for the short answers I have been giving you , but I have been uncertain what I ought to do .
I have been doubting and considering as to what I ought to tell you .
There were many things to be taken into the account .
One hates to be officious , to be giving bad impressions , making mischief .
Even the smooth surface of family - union seems worth preserving , though there may be nothing durable beneath .
However , I have determined ; I think I am right ; I think you ought to be made acquainted with Mr Elliot ' s real character .
Though I fully believe that , at present , you have not the smallest intention of accepting him , there is no saying what may happen .
You might , some time or other , be differently affected towards him .
Hear the truth , therefore , now , while you are unprejudiced .
Mr Elliot is a man without heart or conscience ; a designing , wary , cold - blooded being , who thinks only of himself ; whom for his own interest or ease , would be guilty of any cruelty , or any treachery , that could be perpetrated without risk of his general character .
He has no feeling for others .
Those whom he has been the chief cause of leading into ruin , he can neglect and desert without the smallest compunction .
He is totally beyond the reach of any sentiment of justice or compassion .
Oh !
he is black at heart , hollow and black !"
Anne ' s astonished air , and exclamation of wonder , made her pause , and in a calmer manner , she added ,
" My expressions startle you .
You must allow for an injured , angry woman .
But I will try to command myself .
I will not abuse him .
I will only tell you what I have found him .
Facts shall speak .
He was the intimate friend of my dear husband , who trusted and loved him , and thought him as good as himself .
The intimacy had been formed before our marriage .
I found them most intimate friends ; and I , too , became excessively pleased with Mr Elliot , and entertained the highest opinion of him .
At nineteen , you know , one does not think very seriously ; but Mr Elliot appeared to me quite as good as others , and much more agreeable than most others , and we were almost always together .
We were principally in town , living in very good style .
He was then the inferior in circumstances ; he was then the poor one ; he had chambers in the Temple , and it was as much as he could do to support the appearance of a gentleman .
He had always a home with us whenever he chose it ; he was always welcome ; he was like a brother .
My poor Charles , who had the finest , most generous spirit in the world , would have divided his last farthing with him ; and I know that his purse was open to him ; I know that he often assisted him ."
" This must have been about that very period of Mr Elliot ' s life ," said Anne , " which has always excited my particular curiosity .
It must have been about the same time that he became known to my father and sister .
I never knew him myself ; I only heard of him ; but there was a something in his conduct then , with regard to my father and sister , and afterwards in the circumstances of his marriage , which I never could quite reconcile with present times .
It seemed to announce a different sort of man ."
" I know it all , I know it all ," cried Mrs Smith .
" He had been introduced to Sir Walter and your sister before I was acquainted with him , but I heard him speak of them for ever .
I know he was invited and encouraged , and I know he did not choose to go .
I can satisfy you , perhaps , on points which you would little expect ; and as to his marriage , I knew all about it at the time .
I was privy to all the fors and againsts ; I was the friend to whom he confided his hopes and plans ; and though I did not know his wife previously , her inferior situation in society , indeed , rendered that impossible , yet I knew her all her life afterwards , or at least till within the last two years of her life , and can answer any question you may wish to put ."
" Nay ," said Anne , " I have no particular enquiry to make about her .
I have always understood they were not a happy couple .
But I should like to know why , at that time of his life , he should slight my father ' s acquaintance as he did .
My father was certainly disposed to take very kind and proper notice of him .
Why did Mr Elliot draw back ?"
" Mr Elliot ," replied Mrs Smith , " at that period of his life , had one object in view : to make his fortune , and by a rather quicker process than the law .
He was determined to make it by marriage .
He was determined , at least , not to mar it by an imprudent marriage ; and I know it was his belief ( whether justly or not , of course I cannot decide ), that your father and sister , in their civilities and invitations , were designing a match between the heir and the young lady , and it was impossible that such a match should have answered his ideas of wealth and independence .
That was his motive for drawing back , I can assure you .
He told me the whole story .
He had no concealments with me .
It was curious , that having just left you behind me in Bath , my first and principal acquaintance on marrying should be your cousin ; and that , through him , I should be continually hearing of your father and sister .
He described one Miss Elliot , and I thought very affectionately of the other ."
" Perhaps ," cried Anne , struck by a sudden idea , " you sometimes spoke of me to Mr Elliot ?"
" To be sure I did ; very often .
I used to boast of my own Anne Elliot , and vouch for your being a very different creature from --"
She checked herself just in time .
" This accounts for something which Mr Elliot said last night ," cried Anne .
" This explains it .
I found he had been used to hear of me .
I could not comprehend how .
What wild imaginations one forms where dear self is concerned !
How sure to be mistaken !
But I beg your pardon ; I have interrupted you .
Mr Elliot married then completely for money ?
The circumstances , probably , which first opened your eyes to his character ."
Mrs Smith hesitated a little here .
" Oh !
those things are too common .
When one lives in the world , a man or woman ' s marrying for money is too common to strike one as it ought .
I was very young , and associated only with the young , and we were a thoughtless , gay set , without any strict rules of conduct .
We lived for enjoyment .
I think differently now ; time and sickness and sorrow have given me other notions ; but at that period I must own I saw nothing reprehensible in what Mr Elliot was doing .
` To do the best for himself ,' passed as a duty ."
" But was not she a very low woman ?"
" Yes ; which I objected to , but he would not regard .
Money , money , was all that he wanted .
Her father was a grazier , her grandfather had been a butcher , but that was all nothing .
She was a fine woman , had had a decent education , was brought forward by some cousins , thrown by chance into Mr Elliot ' s company , and fell in love with him ; and not a difficulty or a scruple was there on his side , with respect to her birth .
All his caution was spent in being secured of the real amount of her fortune , before he committed himself .
Depend upon it , whatever esteem Mr Elliot may have for his own situation in life now , as a young man he had not the smallest value for it .
His chance for the Kellynch estate was something , but all the honour of the family he held as cheap as dirt .
I have often heard him declare , that if baronetcies were saleable , anybody should have his for fifty pounds , arms and motto , name and livery included ; but I will not pretend to repeat half that I used to hear him say on that subject .
It would not be fair ; and yet you ought to have proof , for what is all this but assertion , and you shall have proof ."
" Indeed , my dear Mrs Smith , I want none ," cried Anne .
" You have asserted nothing contradictory to what Mr Elliot appeared to be some years ago .
This is all in confirmation , rather , of what we used to hear and believe .
I am more curious to know why he should be so different now ."
" But for my satisfaction , if you will have the goodness to ring for Mary ; stay : I am sure you will have the still greater goodness of going yourself into my bedroom , and bringing me the small inlaid box which you will find on the upper shelf of the closet ."
Anne , seeing her friend to be earnestly bent on it , did as she was desired .
The box was brought and placed before her , and Mrs Smith , sighing over it as she unlocked it , said --
" This is full of papers belonging to him , to my husband ; a small portion only of what I had to look over when I lost him .
The letter I am looking for was one written by Mr Elliot to him before our marriage , and happened to be saved ; why , one can hardly imagine .
But he was careless and immethodical , like other men , about those things ; and when I came to examine his papers , I found it with others still more trivial , from different people scattered here and there , while many letters and memorandums of real importance had been destroyed .
Here it is ; I would not burn it , because being even then very little satisfied with Mr Elliot , I was determined to preserve every document of former intimacy .
I have now another motive for being glad that I can produce it ."
This was the letter , directed to " Charles Smith , Esq .
Tunbridge Wells ," and dated from London , as far back as July , 1803 : --
" Dear Smith ,-- I have received yours .
Your kindness almost overpowers me .
I wish nature had made such hearts as yours more common , but I have lived three - and - twenty years in the world , and have seen none like it .
At present , believe me , I have no need of your services , being in cash again .
Give me joy : I have got rid of Sir Walter and Miss .
They are gone back to Kellynch , and almost made me swear to visit them this summer ; but my first visit to Kellynch will be with a surveyor , to tell me how to bring it with best advantage to the hammer .
The baronet , nevertheless , is not unlikely to marry again ; he is quite fool enough .
If he does , however , they will leave me in peace , which may be a decent equivalent for the reversion .
He is worse than last year .
" I wish I had any name but Elliot .
I am sick of it .
The name of Walter I can drop , thank God !
and I desire you will never insult me with my second W . again , meaning , for the rest of my life , to be only yours truly ,-- Wm .
Elliot ."
Such a letter could not be read without putting Anne in a glow ; and Mrs Smith , observing the high colour in her face , said --
" The language , I know , is highly disrespectful .
Though I have forgot the exact terms , I have a perfect impression of the general meaning .
But it shows you the man .
Mark his professions to my poor husband .
Can any thing be stronger ?"
Anne could not immediately get over the shock and mortification of finding such words applied to her father .
She was obliged to recollect that her seeing the letter was a violation of the laws of honour , that no one ought to be judged or to be known by such testimonies , that no private correspondence could bear the eye of others , before she could recover calmness enough to return the letter which she had been meditating over , and say --
" Thank you .
This is full proof undoubtedly ; proof of every thing you were saying .
But why be acquainted with us now ?"
" I can explain this too ," cried Mrs Smith , smiling .
" Can you really ?"
" Yes .
I have shewn you Mr Elliot as he was a dozen years ago , and I will shew him as he is now .
I cannot produce written proof again , but I can give as authentic oral testimony as you can desire , of what he is now wanting , and what he is now doing .
He is no hypocrite now .
He truly wants to marry you .
His present attentions to your family are very sincere : quite from the heart .
I will give you my authority : his friend Colonel Wallis ."
" Colonel Wallis !
you are acquainted with him ?"
" No .
It does not come to me in quite so direct a line as that ; it takes a bend or two , but nothing of consequence .
The stream is as good as at first ; the little rubbish it collects in the turnings is easily moved away .
Mr Elliot talks unreservedly to Colonel Wallis of his views on you , which said Colonel Wallis , I imagine to be , in himself , a sensible , careful , discerning sort of character ; but Colonel Wallis has a very pretty silly wife , to whom he tells things which he had better not , and he repeats it all to her .
She in the overflowing spirits of her recovery , repeats it all to her nurse ; and the nurse knowing my acquaintance with you , very naturally brings it all to me .
On Monday evening , my good friend Mrs Rooke let me thus much into the secrets of Marlborough Buildings .
When I talked of a whole history , therefore , you see I was not romancing so much as you supposed ."
" My dear Mrs Smith , your authority is deficient .
This will not do .
Mr Elliot ' s having any views on me will not in the least account for the efforts he made towards a reconciliation with my father .
That was all prior to my coming to Bath .
I found them on the most friendly terms when I arrived ."
" I know you did ; I know it all perfectly , but --"
" Indeed , Mrs Smith , we must not expect to get real information in such a line .
Facts or opinions which are to pass through the hands of so many , to be misconceived by folly in one , and ignorance in another , can hardly have much truth left ."
" Only give me a hearing .
You will soon be able to judge of the general credit due , by listening to some particulars which you can yourself immediately contradict or confirm .
Nobody supposes that you were his first inducement .
He had seen you indeed , before he came to Bath , and admired you , but without knowing it to be you .
So says my historian , at least .
Is this true ?
Did he see you last summer or autumn , ` somewhere down in the west ,' to use her own words , without knowing it to be you ?"
" He certainly did .
So far it is very true .
At Lyme .
I happened to be at Lyme ."
" Well ," continued Mrs Smith , triumphantly , " grant my friend the credit due to the establishment of the first point asserted .
He saw you then at Lyme , and liked you so well as to be exceedingly pleased to meet with you again in Camden Place , as Miss Anne Elliot , and from that moment , I have no doubt , had a double motive in his visits there .
But there was another , and an earlier , which I will now explain .
If there is anything in my story which you know to be either false or improbable , stop me .
My account states , that your sister ' s friend , the lady now staying with you , whom I have heard you mention , came to Bath with Miss Elliot and Sir Walter as long ago as September ( in short when they first came themselves ), and has been staying there ever since ; that she is a clever , insinuating , handsome woman , poor and plausible , and altogether such in situation and manner , as to give a general idea , among Sir Walter ' s acquaintance , of her meaning to be Lady Elliot , and as general a surprise that Miss Elliot should be apparently , blind to the danger ."
Here Mrs Smith paused a moment ; but Anne had not a word to say , and she continued --
" This was the light in which it appeared to those who knew the family , long before you returned to it ; and Colonel Wallis had his eye upon your father enough to be sensible of it , though he did not then visit in Camden Place ; but his regard for Mr Elliot gave him an interest in watching all that was going on there , and when Mr Elliot came to Bath for a day or two , as he happened to do a little before Christmas , Colonel Wallis made him acquainted with the appearance of things , and the reports beginning to prevail .
Now you are to understand , that time had worked a very material change in Mr Elliot ' s opinions as to the value of a baronetcy .
Upon all points of blood and connexion he is a completely altered man .
Having long had as much money as he could spend , nothing to wish for on the side of avarice or indulgence , he has been gradually learning to pin his happiness upon the consequence he is heir to .
I thought it coming on before our acquaintance ceased , but it is now a confirmed feeling .
He cannot bear the idea of not being Sir William .
You may guess , therefore , that the news he heard from his friend could not be very agreeable , and you may guess what it produced ; the resolution of coming back to Bath as soon as possible , and of fixing himself here for a time , with the view of renewing his former acquaintance , and recovering such a footing in the family as might give him the means of ascertaining the degree of his danger , and of circumventing the lady if he found it material .
This was agreed upon between the two friends as the only thing to be done ; and Colonel Wallis was to assist in every way that he could .
He was to be introduced , and Mrs Wallis was to be introduced , and everybody was to be introduced .
Mr Elliot came back accordingly ; and on application was forgiven , as you know , and re - admitted into the family ; and there it was his constant object , and his only object ( till your arrival added another motive ), to watch Sir Walter and Mrs Clay .
He omitted no opportunity of being with them , threw himself in their way , called at all hours ; but I need not be particular on this subject .
You can imagine what an artful man would do ; and with this guide , perhaps , may recollect what you have seen him do ."
" Yes ," said Anne , " you tell me nothing which does not accord with what I have known , or could imagine .
There is always something offensive in the details of cunning .
The manoeuvres of selfishness and duplicity must ever be revolting , but I have heard nothing which really surprises me .
I know those who would be shocked by such a representation of Mr Elliot , who would have difficulty in believing it ; but I have never been satisfied .
I have always wanted some other motive for his conduct than appeared .
I should like to know his present opinion , as to the probability of the event he has been in dread of ; whether he considers the danger to be lessening or not ."
" Lessening , I understand ," replied Mrs Smith .
" He thinks Mrs Clay afraid of him , aware that he sees through her , and not daring to proceed as she might do in his absence .
But since he must be absent some time or other , I do not perceive how he can ever be secure while she holds her present influence .
Mrs Wallis has an amusing idea , as nurse tells me , that it is to be put into the marriage articles when you and Mr Elliot marry , that your father is not to marry Mrs Clay .
A scheme , worthy of Mrs Wallis ' s understanding , by all accounts ; but my sensible nurse Rooke sees the absurdity of it .
` Why , to be sure , ma ' am ,' said she , ` it would not prevent his marrying anybody else .'
And , indeed , to own the truth , I do not think nurse , in her heart , is a very strenuous opposer of Sir Walter ' s making a second match .
She must be allowed to be a favourer of matrimony , you know ; and ( since self will intrude ) who can say that she may not have some flying visions of attending the next Lady Elliot , through Mrs Wallis ' s recommendation ?"
" I am very glad to know all this ," said Anne , after a little thoughtfulness .
" It will be more painful to me in some respects to be in company with him , but I shall know better what to do .
My line of conduct will be more direct .
Mr Elliot is evidently a disingenuous , artificial , worldly man , who has never had any better principle to guide him than selfishness ."
But Mr Elliot was not done with .
Mrs Smith had been carried away from her first direction , and Anne had forgotten , in the interest of her own family concerns , how much had been originally implied against him ; but her attention was now called to the explanation of those first hints , and she listened to a recital which , if it did not perfectly justify the unqualified bitterness of Mrs Smith , proved him to have been very unfeeling in his conduct towards her ; very deficient both in justice and compassion .
She learned that ( the intimacy between them continuing unimpaired by Mr Elliot ' s marriage ) they had been as before always together , and Mr Elliot had led his friend into expenses much beyond his fortune .
Mrs Smith did not want to take blame to herself , and was most tender of throwing any on her husband ; but Anne could collect that their income had never been equal to their style of living , and that from the first there had been a great deal of general and joint extravagance .
From his wife ' s account of him she could discern Mr Smith to have been a man of warm feelings , easy temper , careless habits , and not strong understanding , much more amiable than his friend , and very unlike him , led by him , and probably despised by him .
Mr Elliot , raised by his marriage to great affluence , and disposed to every gratification of pleasure and vanity which could be commanded without involving himself , ( for with all his self - indulgence he had become a prudent man ), and beginning to be rich , just as his friend ought to have found himself to be poor , seemed to have had no concern at all for that friend ' s probable finances , but , on the contrary , had been prompting and encouraging expenses which could end only in ruin ; and the Smiths accordingly had been ruined .
The husband had died just in time to be spared the full knowledge of it .
They had previously known embarrassments enough to try the friendship of their friends , and to prove that Mr Elliot ' s had better not be tried ; but it was not till his death that the wretched state of his affairs was fully known .
With a confidence in Mr Elliot ' s regard , more creditable to his feelings than his judgement , Mr Smith had appointed him the executor of his will ; but Mr Elliot would not act , and the difficulties and distress which this refusal had heaped on her , in addition to the inevitable sufferings of her situation , had been such as could not be related without anguish of spirit , or listened to without corresponding indignation .
Anne was shewn some letters of his on the occasion , answers to urgent applications from Mrs Smith , which all breathed the same stern resolution of not engaging in a fruitless trouble , and , under a cold civility , the same hard - hearted indifference to any of the evils it might bring on her .
It was a dreadful picture of ingratitude and inhumanity ; and Anne felt , at some moments , that no flagrant open crime could have been worse .
She had a great deal to listen to ; all the particulars of past sad scenes , all the minutiae of distress upon distress , which in former conversations had been merely hinted at , were dwelt on now with a natural indulgence .
Anne could perfectly comprehend the exquisite relief , and was only the more inclined to wonder at the composure of her friend ' s usual state of mind .
There was one circumstance in the history of her grievances of particular irritation .
She had good reason to believe that some property of her husband in the West Indies , which had been for many years under a sort of sequestration for the payment of its own incumbrances , might be recoverable by proper measures ; and this property , though not large , would be enough to make her comparatively rich .
But there was nobody to stir in it .
Mr Elliot would do nothing , and she could do nothing herself , equally disabled from personal exertion by her state of bodily weakness , and from employing others by her want of money .
She had no natural connexions to assist her even with their counsel , and she could not afford to purchase the assistance of the law .
This was a cruel aggravation of actually straitened means .
To feel that she ought to be in better circumstances , that a little trouble in the right place might do it , and to fear that delay might be even weakening her claims , was hard to bear .
It was on this point that she had hoped to engage Anne ' s good offices with Mr Elliot .
She had previously , in the anticipation of their marriage , been very apprehensive of losing her friend by it ; but on being assured that he could have made no attempt of that nature , since he did not even know her to be in Bath , it immediately occurred , that something might be done in her favour by the influence of the woman he loved , and she had been hastily preparing to interest Anne ' s feelings , as far as the observances due to Mr Elliot ' s character would allow , when Anne ' s refutation of the supposed engagement changed the face of everything ; and while it took from her the new - formed hope of succeeding in the object of her first anxiety , left her at least the comfort of telling the whole story her own way .
After listening to this full description of Mr Elliot , Anne could not but express some surprise at Mrs Smith ' s having spoken of him so favourably in the beginning of their conversation .
" She had seemed to recommend and praise him !"
" My dear ," was Mrs Smith ' s reply , " there was nothing else to be done .
I considered your marrying him as certain , though he might not yet have made the offer , and I could no more speak the truth of him , than if he had been your husband .
My heart bled for you , as I talked of happiness ; and yet he is sensible , he is agreeable , and with such a woman as you , it was not absolutely hopeless .
He was very unkind to his first wife .
They were wretched together .
But she was too ignorant and giddy for respect , and he had never loved her .
I was willing to hope that you must fare better ."
Anne could just acknowledge within herself such a possibility of having been induced to marry him , as made her shudder at the idea of the misery which must have followed .
It was just possible that she might have been persuaded by Lady Russell !
And under such a supposition , which would have been most miserable , when time had disclosed all , too late ?
It was very desirable that Lady Russell should be no longer deceived ; and one of the concluding arrangements of this important conference , which carried them through the greater part of the morning , was , that Anne had full liberty to communicate to her friend everything relative to Mrs Smith , in which his conduct was involved .
Chapter 22
Anne went home to think over all that she had heard .
In one point , her feelings were relieved by this knowledge of Mr Elliot .
There was no longer anything of tenderness due to him .
He stood as opposed to Captain Wentworth , in all his own unwelcome obtrusiveness ; and the evil of his attentions last night , the irremediable mischief he might have done , was considered with sensations unqualified , unperplexed .
Pity for him was all over .
But this was the only point of relief .
In every other respect , in looking around her , or penetrating forward , she saw more to distrust and to apprehend .
She was concerned for the disappointment and pain Lady Russell would be feeling ; for the mortifications which must be hanging over her father and sister , and had all the distress of foreseeing many evils , without knowing how to avert any one of them .
She was most thankful for her own knowledge of him .
She had never considered herself as entitled to reward for not slighting an old friend like Mrs Smith , but here was a reward indeed springing from it !
Mrs Smith had been able to tell her what no one else could have done .
Could the knowledge have been extended through her family ?
But this was a vain idea .
She must talk to Lady Russell , tell her , consult with her , and having done her best , wait the event with as much composure as possible ; and after all , her greatest want of composure would be in that quarter of the mind which could not be opened to Lady Russell ; in that flow of anxieties and fears which must be all to herself .
She found , on reaching home , that she had , as she intended , escaped seeing Mr Elliot ; that he had called and paid them a long morning visit ; but hardly had she congratulated herself , and felt safe , when she heard that he was coming again in the evening .
" I had not the smallest intention of asking him ," said Elizabeth , with affected carelessness , " but he gave so many hints ; so Mrs Clay says , at least ."
" Indeed , I do say it .
I never saw anybody in my life spell harder for an invitation .
Poor man !
I was really in pain for him ; for your hard - hearted sister , Miss Anne , seems bent on cruelty ."
" Oh !"
cried Elizabeth , " I have been rather too much used to the game to be soon overcome by a gentleman ' s hints .
However , when I found how excessively he was regretting that he should miss my father this morning , I gave way immediately , for I would never really omit an opportunity of bring him and Sir Walter together .
They appear to so much advantage in company with each other .
Each behaving so pleasantly .
Mr Elliot looking up with so much respect ."
" Quite delightful !"
cried Mrs Clay , not daring , however , to turn her eyes towards Anne .
" Exactly like father and son !
Dear Miss Elliot , may I not say father and son ?"
" Oh !
I lay no embargo on any body ' s words .
If you will have such ideas !
But , upon my word , I am scarcely sensible of his attentions being beyond those of other men ."
" My dear Miss Elliot !"
exclaimed Mrs Clay , lifting her hands and eyes , and sinking all the rest of her astonishment in a convenient silence .
" Well , my dear Penelope , you need not be so alarmed about him .
I did invite him , you know .
I sent him away with smiles .
When I found he was really going to his friends at Thornberry Park for the whole day to - morrow , I had compassion on him ."
Anne admired the good acting of the friend , in being able to shew such pleasure as she did , in the expectation and in the actual arrival of the very person whose presence must really be interfering with her prime object .
It was impossible but that Mrs Clay must hate the sight of Mr Elliot ; and yet she could assume a most obliging , placid look , and appear quite satisfied with the curtailed license of devoting herself only half as much to Sir Walter as she would have done otherwise .
To Anne herself it was most distressing to see Mr Elliot enter the room ; and quite painful to have him approach and speak to her .
She had been used before to feel that he could not be always quite sincere , but now she saw insincerity in everything .
His attentive deference to her father , contrasted with his former language , was odious ; and when she thought of his cruel conduct towards Mrs Smith , she could hardly bear the sight of his present smiles and mildness , or the sound of his artificial good sentiments .
She meant to avoid any such alteration of manners as might provoke a remonstrance on his side .
It was a great object to her to escape all enquiry or eclat ; but it was her intention to be as decidedly cool to him as might be compatible with their relationship ; and to retrace , as quietly as she could , the few steps of unnecessary intimacy she had been gradually led along .
She was accordingly more guarded , and more cool , than she had been the night before .
He wanted to animate her curiosity again as to how and where he could have heard her formerly praised ; wanted very much to be gratified by more solicitation ; but the charm was broken : he found that the heat and animation of a public room was necessary to kindle his modest cousin ' s vanity ; he found , at least , that it was not to be done now , by any of those attempts which he could hazard among the too - commanding claims of the others .
He little surmised that it was a subject acting now exactly against his interest , bringing immediately to her thoughts all those parts of his conduct which were least excusable .
She had some satisfaction in finding that he was really going out of Bath the next morning , going early , and that he would be gone the greater part of two days .
He was invited again to Camden Place the very evening of his return ; but from Thursday to Saturday evening his absence was certain .
It was bad enough that a Mrs Clay should be always before her ; but that a deeper hypocrite should be added to their party , seemed the destruction of everything like peace and comfort .
It was so humiliating to reflect on the constant deception practised on her father and Elizabeth ; to consider the various sources of mortification preparing for them !
Mrs Clay ' s selfishness was not so complicate nor so revolting as his ; and Anne would have compounded for the marriage at once , with all its evils , to be clear of Mr Elliot ' s subtleties in endeavouring to prevent it .
On Friday morning she meant to go very early to Lady Russell , and accomplish the necessary communication ; and she would have gone directly after breakfast , but that Mrs Clay was also going out on some obliging purpose of saving her sister trouble , which determined her to wait till she might be safe from such a companion .
She saw Mrs Clay fairly off , therefore , before she began to talk of spending the morning in Rivers Street .
" Very well ," said Elizabeth , " I have nothing to send but my love .
Oh !
you may as well take back that tiresome book she would lend me , and pretend I have read it through .
I really cannot be plaguing myself for ever with all the new poems and states of the nation that come out .
Lady Russell quite bores one with her new publications .
You need not tell her so , but I thought her dress hideous the other night .
I used to think she had some taste in dress , but I was ashamed of her at the concert .
Something so formal and arrange in her air !
and she sits so upright !
My best love , of course ."
" And mine ," added Sir Walter .
" Kindest regards .
And you may say , that I mean to call upon her soon .
Make a civil message ; but I shall only leave my card .
Morning visits are never fair by women at her time of life , who make themselves up so little .
If she would only wear rouge she would not be afraid of being seen ; but last time I called , I observed the blinds were let down immediately ."
While her father spoke , there was a knock at the door .
Who could it be ?
Anne , remembering the preconcerted visits , at all hours , of Mr Elliot , would have expected him , but for his known engagement seven miles off .
After the usual period of suspense , the usual sounds of approach were heard , and " Mr and Mrs Charles Musgrove " were ushered into the room .
Surprise was the strongest emotion raised by their appearance ; but Anne was really glad to see them ; and the others were not so sorry but that they could put on a decent air of welcome ; and as soon as it became clear that these , their nearest relations , were not arrived with an views of accommodation in that house , Sir Walter and Elizabeth were able to rise in cordiality , and do the honours of it very well .
They were come to Bath for a few days with Mrs Musgrove , and were at the White Hart .
So much was pretty soon understood ; but till Sir Walter and Elizabeth were walking Mary into the other drawing - room , and regaling themselves with her admiration , Anne could not draw upon Charles ' s brain for a regular history of their coming , or an explanation of some smiling hints of particular business , which had been ostentatiously dropped by Mary , as well as of some apparent confusion as to whom their party consisted of .
She then found that it consisted of Mrs Musgrove , Henrietta , and Captain Harville , beside their two selves .
He gave her a very plain , intelligible account of the whole ; a narration in which she saw a great deal of most characteristic proceeding .
The scheme had received its first impulse by Captain Harville ' s wanting to come to Bath on business .
He had begun to talk of it a week ago ; and by way of doing something , as shooting was over , Charles had proposed coming with him , and Mrs Harville had seemed to like the idea of it very much , as an advantage to her husband ; but Mary could not bear to be left , and had made herself so unhappy about it , that for a day or two everything seemed to be in suspense , or at an end .
But then , it had been taken up by his father and mother .
His mother had some old friends in Bath whom she wanted to see ; it was thought a good opportunity for Henrietta to come and buy wedding - clothes for herself and her sister ; and , in short , it ended in being his mother ' s party , that everything might be comfortable and easy to Captain Harville ; and he and Mary were included in it by way of general convenience .
They had arrived late the night before .
Mrs Harville , her children , and Captain Benwick , remained with Mr Musgrove and Louisa at Uppercross .
Anne ' s only surprise was , that affairs should be in forwardness enough for Henrietta ' s wedding - clothes to be talked of .
She had imagined such difficulties of fortune to exist there as must prevent the marriage from being near at hand ; but she learned from Charles that , very recently , ( since Mary ' s last letter to herself ), Charles Hayter had been applied to by a friend to hold a living for a youth who could not possibly claim it under many years ; and that on the strength of his present income , with almost a certainty of something more permanent long before the term in question , the two families had consented to the young people ' s wishes , and that their marriage was likely to take place in a few months , quite as soon as Louisa ' s .
" And a very good living it was ," Charles added : " only five - and - twenty miles from Uppercross , and in a very fine country : fine part of Dorsetshire .
In the centre of some of the best preserves in the kingdom , surrounded by three great proprietors , each more careful and jealous than the other ; and to two of the three at least , Charles Hayter might get a special recommendation .
Not that he will value it as he ought ," he observed , " Charles is too cool about sporting .
That ' s the worst of him ."
" I am extremely glad , indeed ," cried Anne , " particularly glad that this should happen ; and that of two sisters , who both deserve equally well , and who have always been such good friends , the pleasant prospect of one should not be dimming those of the other -- that they should be so equal in their prosperity and comfort .
I hope your father and mother are quite happy with regard to both ."
" Oh !
yes .
My father would be well pleased if the gentlemen were richer , but he has no other fault to find .
Money , you know , coming down with money -- two daughters at once -- it cannot be a very agreeable operation , and it streightens him as to many things .
However , I do not mean to say they have not a right to it .
It is very fit they should have daughters ' shares ; and I am sure he has always been a very kind , liberal father to me .
Mary does not above half like Henrietta ' s match .
She never did , you know .
But she does not do him justice , nor think enough about Winthrop .
I cannot make her attend to the value of the property .
It is a very fair match , as times go ; and I have liked Charles Hayter all my life , and I shall not leave off now ."
" Such excellent parents as Mr and Mrs Musgrove ," exclaimed Anne , " should be happy in their children ' s marriages .
They do everything to confer happiness , I am sure .
What a blessing to young people to be in such hands !
Your father and mother seem so totally free from all those ambitious feelings which have led to so much misconduct and misery , both in young and old .
I hope you think Louisa perfectly recovered now ?"
He answered rather hesitatingly , " Yes , I believe I do ; very much recovered ; but she is altered ; there is no running or jumping about , no laughing or dancing ; it is quite different .
If one happens only to shut the door a little hard , she starts and wriggles like a young dab - chick in the water ; and Benwick sits at her elbow , reading verses , or whispering to her , all day long ."
Anne could not help laughing .
" That cannot be much to your taste , I know ," said she ; " but I do believe him to be an excellent young man ."
" To be sure he is .
Nobody doubts it ; and I hope you do not think I am so illiberal as to want every man to have the same objects and pleasures as myself .
I have a great value for Benwick ; and when one can but get him to talk , he has plenty to say .
His reading has done him no harm , for he has fought as well as read .
He is a brave fellow .
I got more acquainted with him last Monday than ever I did before .
We had a famous set - to at rat - hunting all the morning in my father ' s great barns ; and he played his part so well that I have liked him the better ever since ."
Here they were interrupted by the absolute necessity of Charles ' s following the others to admire mirrors and china ; but Anne had heard enough to understand the present state of Uppercross , and rejoice in its happiness ; and though she sighed as she rejoiced , her sigh had none of the ill - will of envy in it .
She would certainly have risen to their blessings if she could , but she did not want to lessen theirs .
The visit passed off altogether in high good humour .
Mary was in excellent spirits , enjoying the gaiety and the change , and so well satisfied with the journey in her mother - in - law ' s carriage with four horses , and with her own complete independence of Camden Place , that she was exactly in a temper to admire everything as she ought , and enter most readily into all the superiorities of the house , as they were detailed to her .
She had no demands on her father or sister , and her consequence was just enough increased by their handsome drawing - rooms .
Elizabeth was , for a short time , suffering a good deal .
She felt that Mrs Musgrove and all her party ought to be asked to dine with them ; but she could not bear to have the difference of style , the reduction of servants , which a dinner must betray , witnessed by those who had been always so inferior to the Elliots of Kellynch .
It was a struggle between propriety and vanity ; but vanity got the better , and then Elizabeth was happy again .
These were her internal persuasions : " Old fashioned notions ; country hospitality ; we do not profess to give dinners ; few people in Bath do ; Lady Alicia never does ; did not even ask her own sister ' s family , though they were here a month : and I dare say it would be very inconvenient to Mrs Musgrove ; put her quite out of her way .
I am sure she would rather not come ; she cannot feel easy with us .
I will ask them all for an evening ; that will be much better ; that will be a novelty and a treat .
They have not seen two such drawing rooms before .
They will be delighted to come to - morrow evening .
It shall be a regular party , small , but most elegant ."
And this satisfied Elizabeth : and when the invitation was given to the two present , and promised for the absent , Mary was as completely satisfied .
She was particularly asked to meet Mr Elliot , and be introduced to Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret , who were fortunately already engaged to come ; and she could not have received a more gratifying attention .
Miss Elliot was to have the honour of calling on Mrs Musgrove in the course of the morning ; and Anne walked off with Charles and Mary , to go and see her and Henrietta directly .
Her plan of sitting with Lady Russell must give way for the present .
They all three called in Rivers Street for a couple of minutes ; but Anne convinced herself that a day ' s delay of the intended communication could be of no consequence , and hastened forward to the White Hart , to see again the friends and companions of the last autumn , with an eagerness of good - will which many associations contributed to form .
They found Mrs Musgrove and her daughter within , and by themselves , and Anne had the kindest welcome from each .
Henrietta was exactly in that state of recently - improved views , of fresh - formed happiness , which made her full of regard and interest for everybody she had ever liked before at all ; and Mrs Musgrove ' s real affection had been won by her usefulness when they were in distress .
It was a heartiness , and a warmth , and a sincerity which Anne delighted in the more , from the sad want of such blessings at home .
She was entreated to give them as much of her time as possible , invited for every day and all day long , or rather claimed as part of the family ; and , in return , she naturally fell into all her wonted ways of attention and assistance , and on Charles ' s leaving them together , was listening to Mrs Musgrove ' s history of Louisa , and to Henrietta ' s of herself , giving opinions on business , and recommendations to shops ; with intervals of every help which Mary required , from altering her ribbon to settling her accounts ; from finding her keys , and assorting her trinkets , to trying to convince her that she was not ill - used by anybody ; which Mary , well amused as she generally was , in her station at a window overlooking the entrance to the Pump Room , could not but have her moments of imagining .
A morning of thorough confusion was to be expected .
A large party in an hotel ensured a quick - changing , unsettled scene .
One five minutes brought a note , the next a parcel ; and Anne had not been there half an hour , when their dining - room , spacious as it was , seemed more than half filled : a party of steady old friends were seated around Mrs Musgrove , and Charles came back with Captains Harville and Wentworth .
The appearance of the latter could not be more than the surprise of the moment .
It was impossible for her to have forgotten to feel that this arrival of their common friends must be soon bringing them together again .
Their last meeting had been most important in opening his feelings ; she had derived from it a delightful conviction ; but she feared from his looks , that the same unfortunate persuasion , which had hastened him away from the Concert Room , still governed .
He did not seem to want to be near enough for conversation .
She tried to be calm , and leave things to take their course , and tried to dwell much on this argument of rational dependence :-- " Surely , if there be constant attachment on each side , our hearts must understand each other ere long .
We are not boy and girl , to be captiously irritable , misled by every moment ' s inadvertence , and wantonly playing with our own happiness ."
And yet , a few minutes afterwards , she felt as if their being in company with each other , under their present circumstances , could only be exposing them to inadvertencies and misconstructions of the most mischievous kind .
" Anne ," cried Mary , still at her window , " there is Mrs Clay , I am sure , standing under the colonnade , and a gentleman with her .
I saw them turn the corner from Bath Street just now .
They seemed deep in talk .
Who is it ?
Come , and tell me .
Good heavens !
I recollect .
It is Mr Elliot himself ."
" No ," cried Anne , quickly , " it cannot be Mr Elliot , I assure you .
He was to leave Bath at nine this morning , and does not come back till to - morrow ."
As she spoke , she felt that Captain Wentworth was looking at her , the consciousness of which vexed and embarrassed her , and made her regret that she had said so much , simple as it was .
Mary , resenting that she should be supposed not to know her own cousin , began talking very warmly about the family features , and protesting still more positively that it was Mr Elliot , calling again upon Anne to come and look for herself , but Anne did not mean to stir , and tried to be cool and unconcerned .
Her distress returned , however , on perceiving smiles and intelligent glances pass between two or three of the lady visitors , as if they believed themselves quite in the secret .
It was evident that the report concerning her had spread , and a short pause succeeded , which seemed to ensure that it would now spread farther .
" Do come , Anne " cried Mary , " come and look yourself .
You will be too late if you do not make haste .
They are parting ; they are shaking hands .
He is turning away .
Not know Mr Elliot , indeed !
You seem to have forgot all about Lyme ."
To pacify Mary , and perhaps screen her own embarrassment , Anne did move quietly to the window .
She was just in time to ascertain that it really was Mr Elliot , which she had never believed , before he disappeared on one side , as Mrs Clay walked quickly off on the other ; and checking the surprise which she could not but feel at such an appearance of friendly conference between two persons of totally opposite interest , she calmly said , " Yes , it is Mr Elliot , certainly .
He has changed his hour of going , I suppose , that is all , or I may be mistaken , I might not attend ;" and walked back to her chair , recomposed , and with the comfortable hope of having acquitted herself well .
The visitors took their leave ; and Charles , having civilly seen them off , and then made a face at them , and abused them for coming , began with --
" Well , mother , I have done something for you that you will like .
I have been to the theatre , and secured a box for to - morrow night .
A ' n ' t I a good boy ?
I know you love a play ; and there is room for us all .
It holds nine .
I have engaged Captain Wentworth .
Anne will not be sorry to join us , I am sure .
We all like a play .
Have not I done well , mother ?"
Mrs Musgrove was good humouredly beginning to express her perfect readiness for the play , if Henrietta and all the others liked it , when Mary eagerly interrupted her by exclaiming --
" Good heavens , Charles !
how can you think of such a thing ?
Take a box for to - morrow night !
Have you forgot that we are engaged to Camden Place to - morrow night ?
and that we were most particularly asked to meet Lady Dalrymple and her daughter , and Mr Elliot , and all the principal family connexions , on purpose to be introduced to them ?
How can you be so forgetful ?"
" Phoo !
phoo !"
replied Charles , " what ' s an evening party ?
Never worth remembering .
Your father might have asked us to dinner , I think , if he had wanted to see us .
You may do as you like , but I shall go to the play ."
" Oh !
Charles , I declare it will be too abominable if you do , when you promised to go ."
" No , I did not promise .
I only smirked and bowed , and said the word ` happy .'
There was no promise ."
" But you must go , Charles .
It would be unpardonable to fail .
We were asked on purpose to be introduced .
There was always such a great connexion between the Dalrymples and ourselves .
Nothing ever happened on either side that was not announced immediately .
We are quite near relations , you know ; and Mr Elliot too , whom you ought so particularly to be acquainted with !
Every attention is due to Mr Elliot .
Consider , my father ' s heir : the future representative of the family ."
" Don ' t talk to me about heirs and representatives ," cried Charles .
" I am not one of those who neglect the reigning power to bow to the rising sun .
If I would not go for the sake of your father , I should think it scandalous to go for the sake of his heir .
What is Mr Elliot to me ?"
The careless expression was life to Anne , who saw that Captain Wentworth was all attention , looking and listening with his whole soul ; and that the last words brought his enquiring eyes from Charles to herself .
Charles and Mary still talked on in the same style ; he , half serious and half jesting , maintaining the scheme for the play , and she , invariably serious , most warmly opposing it , and not omitting to make it known that , however determined to go to Camden Place herself , she should not think herself very well used , if they went to the play without her .
Mrs Musgrove interposed .
" We had better put it off .
Charles , you had much better go back and change the box for Tuesday .
It would be a pity to be divided , and we should be losing Miss Anne , too , if there is a party at her father ' s ; and I am sure neither Henrietta nor I should care at all for the play , if Miss Anne could not be with us ."
Anne felt truly obliged to her for such kindness ; and quite as much so for the opportunity it gave her of decidedly saying --
" If it depended only on my inclination , ma ' am , the party at home ( excepting on Mary ' s account ) would not be the smallest impediment .
I have no pleasure in the sort of meeting , and should be too happy to change it for a play , and with you .
But , it had better not be attempted , perhaps ."
She had spoken it ; but she trembled when it was done , conscious that her words were listened to , and daring not even to try to observe their effect .
It was soon generally agreed that Tuesday should be the day ; Charles only reserving the advantage of still teasing his wife , by persisting that he would go to the play to - morrow if nobody else would .
Captain Wentworth left his seat , and walked to the fire - place ; probably for the sake of walking away from it soon afterwards , and taking a station , with less bare - faced design , by Anne .
" You have not been long enough in Bath ," said he , " to enjoy the evening parties of the place ."
" Oh !
no .
The usual character of them has nothing for me .
I am no card - player ."
" You were not formerly , I know .
You did not use to like cards ; but time makes many changes ."
" I am not yet so much changed ," cried Anne , and stopped , fearing she hardly knew what misconstruction .
After waiting a few moments he said , and as if it were the result of immediate feeling , " It is a period , indeed !
Eight years and a half is a period ."
Whether he would have proceeded farther was left to Anne ' s imagination to ponder over in a calmer hour ; for while still hearing the sounds he had uttered , she was startled to other subjects by Henrietta , eager to make use of the present leisure for getting out , and calling on her companions to lose no time , lest somebody else should come in .
They were obliged to move .
Anne talked of being perfectly ready , and tried to look it ; but she felt that could Henrietta have known the regret and reluctance of her heart in quitting that chair , in preparing to quit the room , she would have found , in all her own sensations for her cousin , in the very security of his affection , wherewith to pity her .
Their preparations , however , were stopped short .
Alarming sounds were heard ; other visitors approached , and the door was thrown open for Sir Walter and Miss Elliot , whose entrance seemed to give a general chill .
Anne felt an instant oppression , and wherever she looked saw symptoms of the same .
The comfort , the freedom , the gaiety of the room was over , hushed into cold composure , determined silence , or insipid talk , to meet the heartless elegance of her father and sister .
How mortifying to feel that it was so !
Her jealous eye was satisfied in one particular .
Captain Wentworth was acknowledged again by each , by Elizabeth more graciously than before .
She even addressed him once , and looked at him more than once .
Elizabeth was , in fact , revolving a great measure .
The sequel explained it .
After the waste of a few minutes in saying the proper nothings , she began to give the invitation which was to comprise all the remaining dues of the Musgroves .
" To - morrow evening , to meet a few friends : no formal party ."
It was all said very gracefully , and the cards with which she had provided herself , the " Miss Elliot at home ," were laid on the table , with a courteous , comprehensive smile to all , and one smile and one card more decidedly for Captain Wentworth .
The truth was , that Elizabeth had been long enough in Bath to understand the importance of a man of such an air and appearance as his .
The past was nothing .
The present was that Captain Wentworth would move about well in her drawing - room .
The card was pointedly given , and Sir Walter and Elizabeth arose and disappeared .
The interruption had been short , though severe , and ease and animation returned to most of those they left as the door shut them out , but not to Anne .
She could think only of the invitation she had with such astonishment witnessed , and of the manner in which it had been received ; a manner of doubtful meaning , of surprise rather than gratification , of polite acknowledgement rather than acceptance .
She knew him ; she saw disdain in his eye , and could not venture to believe that he had determined to accept such an offering , as an atonement for all the insolence of the past .
Her spirits sank .
He held the card in his hand after they were gone , as if deeply considering it .
" Only think of Elizabeth ' s including everybody !"
whispered Mary very audibly .
" I do not wonder Captain Wentworth is delighted !
You see he cannot put the card out of his hand ."
Anne caught his eye , saw his cheeks glow , and his mouth form itself into a momentary expression of contempt , and turned away , that she might neither see nor hear more to vex her .
The party separated .
The gentlemen had their own pursuits , the ladies proceeded on their own business , and they met no more while Anne belonged to them .
She was earnestly begged to return and dine , and give them all the rest of the day , but her spirits had been so long exerted that at present she felt unequal to more , and fit only for home , where she might be sure of being as silent as she chose .
Promising to be with them the whole of the following morning , therefore , she closed the fatigues of the present by a toilsome walk to Camden Place , there to spend the evening chiefly in listening to the busy arrangements of Elizabeth and Mrs Clay for the morrow ' s party , the frequent enumeration of the persons invited , and the continually improving detail of all the embellishments which were to make it the most completely elegant of its kind in Bath , while harassing herself with the never - ending question , of whether Captain Wentworth would come or not ?
They were reckoning him as certain , but with her it was a gnawing solicitude never appeased for five minutes together .
She generally thought he would come , because she generally thought he ought ; but it was a case which she could not so shape into any positive act of duty or discretion , as inevitably to defy the suggestions of very opposite feelings .
She only roused herself from the broodings of this restless agitation , to let Mrs Clay know that she had been seen with Mr Elliot three hours after his being supposed to be out of Bath , for having watched in vain for some intimation of the interview from the lady herself , she determined to mention it , and it seemed to her there was guilt in Mrs Clay ' s face as she listened .
It was transient : cleared away in an instant ; but Anne could imagine she read there the consciousness of having , by some complication of mutual trick , or some overbearing authority of his , been obliged to attend ( perhaps for half an hour ) to his lectures and restrictions on her designs on Sir Walter .
She exclaimed , however , with a very tolerable imitation of nature : --
" Oh !
dear !
very true .
Only think , Miss Elliot , to my great surprise I met with Mr Elliot in Bath Street .
I was never more astonished .
He turned back and walked with me to the Pump Yard .
He had been prevented setting off for Thornberry , but I really forget by what ; for I was in a hurry , and could not much attend , and I can only answer for his being determined not to be delayed in his return .
He wanted to know how early he might be admitted to - morrow .
He was full of ` to - morrow ,' and it is very evident that I have been full of it too , ever since I entered the house , and learnt the extension of your plan and all that had happened , or my seeing him could never have gone so entirely out of my head ."
Chapter 23
One day only had passed since Anne ' s conversation with Mrs Smith ; but a keener interest had succeeded , and she was now so little touched by Mr Elliot ' s conduct , except by its effects in one quarter , that it became a matter of course the next morning , still to defer her explanatory visit in Rivers Street .
She had promised to be with the Musgroves from breakfast to dinner .
Her faith was plighted , and Mr Elliot ' s character , like the Sultaness Scheherazade ' s head , must live another day .
She could not keep her appointment punctually , however ; the weather was unfavourable , and she had grieved over the rain on her friends ' account , and felt it very much on her own , before she was able to attempt the walk .
When she reached the White Hart , and made her way to the proper apartment , she found herself neither arriving quite in time , nor the first to arrive .
The party before her were , Mrs Musgrove , talking to Mrs Croft , and Captain Harville to Captain Wentworth ; and she immediately heard that Mary and Henrietta , too impatient to wait , had gone out the moment it had cleared , but would be back again soon , and that the strictest injunctions had been left with Mrs Musgrove to keep her there till they returned .
She had only to submit , sit down , be outwardly composed , and feel herself plunged at once in all the agitations which she had merely laid her account of tasting a little before the morning closed .
There was no delay , no waste of time .
She was deep in the happiness of such misery , or the misery of such happiness , instantly .
Two minutes after her entering the room , Captain Wentworth said --
" We will write the letter we were talking of , Harville , now , if you will give me materials ."
Materials were at hand , on a separate table ; he went to it , and nearly turning his back to them all , was engrossed by writing .
Mrs Musgrove was giving Mrs Croft the history of her eldest daughter ' s engagement , and just in that inconvenient tone of voice which was perfectly audible while it pretended to be a whisper .
Anne felt that she did not belong to the conversation , and yet , as Captain Harville seemed thoughtful and not disposed to talk , she could not avoid hearing many undesirable particulars ; such as , " how Mr Musgrove and my brother Hayter had met again and again to talk it over ; what my brother Hayter had said one day , and what Mr Musgrove had proposed the next , and what had occurred to my sister Hayter , and what the young people had wished , and what I said at first I never could consent to , but was afterwards persuaded to think might do very well ," and a great deal in the same style of open - hearted communication : minutiae which , even with every advantage of taste and delicacy , which good Mrs Musgrove could not give , could be properly interesting only to the principals .
Mrs Croft was attending with great good - humour , and whenever she spoke at all , it was very sensibly .
Anne hoped the gentlemen might each be too much self - occupied to hear .
" And so , ma ' am , all these thing considered ," said Mrs Musgrove , in her powerful whisper , " though we could have wished it different , yet , altogether , we did not think it fair to stand out any longer , for Charles Hayter was quite wild about it , and Henrietta was pretty near as bad ; and so we thought they had better marry at once , and make the best of it , as many others have done before them .
At any rate , said I , it will be better than a long engagement ."
" That is precisely what I was going to observe ," cried Mrs Croft .
" I would rather have young people settle on a small income at once , and have to struggle with a few difficulties together , than be involved in a long engagement .
I always think that no mutual --"
" Oh !
dear Mrs Croft ," cried Mrs Musgrove , unable to let her finish her speech , " there is nothing I so abominate for young people as a long engagement .
It is what I always protested against for my children .
It is all very well , I used to say , for young people to be engaged , if there is a certainty of their being able to marry in six months , or even in twelve ; but a long engagement --"
" Yes , dear ma ' am ," said Mrs Croft , " or an uncertain engagement , an engagement which may be long .
To begin without knowing that at such a time there will be the means of marrying , I hold to be very unsafe and unwise , and what I think all parents should prevent as far as they can ."
Anne found an unexpected interest here .
She felt its application to herself , felt it in a nervous thrill all over her ; and at the same moment that her eyes instinctively glanced towards the distant table , Captain Wentworth ' s pen ceased to move , his head was raised , pausing , listening , and he turned round the next instant to give a look , one quick , conscious look at her .
The two ladies continued to talk , to re - urge the same admitted truths , and enforce them with such examples of the ill effect of a contrary practice as had fallen within their observation , but Anne heard nothing distinctly ; it was only a buzz of words in her ear , her mind was in confusion .
Captain Harville , who had in truth been hearing none of it , now left his seat , and moved to a window , and Anne seeming to watch him , though it was from thorough absence of mind , became gradually sensible that he was inviting her to join him where he stood .
He looked at her with a smile , and a little motion of the head , which expressed , " Come to me , I have something to say ;" and the unaffected , easy kindness of manner which denoted the feelings of an older acquaintance than he really was , strongly enforced the invitation .
She roused herself and went to him .
The window at which he stood was at the other end of the room from where the two ladies were sitting , and though nearer to Captain Wentworth ' s table , not very near .
As she joined him , Captain Harville ' s countenance re - assumed the serious , thoughtful expression which seemed its natural character .
" Look here ," said he , unfolding a parcel in his hand , and displaying a small miniature painting , " do you know who that is ?"
" Certainly : Captain Benwick ."
" Yes , and you may guess who it is for .
But ," ( in a deep tone ,) " it was not done for her .
Miss Elliot , do you remember our walking together at Lyme , and grieving for him ?
I little thought then -- but no matter .
This was drawn at the Cape .
He met with a clever young German artist at the Cape , and in compliance with a promise to my poor sister , sat to him , and was bringing it home for her ; and I have now the charge of getting it properly set for another !
It was a commission to me !
But who else was there to employ ?
I hope I can allow for him .
I am not sorry , indeed , to make it over to another .
He undertakes it ;" ( looking towards Captain Wentworth ,) " he is writing about it now ."
And with a quivering lip he wound up the whole by adding , " Poor Fanny !
she would not have forgotten him so soon !"
" No ," replied Anne , in a low , feeling voice .
" That I can easily believe ."
" It was not in her nature .
She doted on him ."
" It would not be the nature of any woman who truly loved ."
Captain Harville smiled , as much as to say , " Do you claim that for your sex ?"
and she answered the question , smiling also , " Yes .
We certainly do not forget you as soon as you forget us .
It is , perhaps , our fate rather than our merit .
We cannot help ourselves .
We live at home , quiet , confined , and our feelings prey upon us .
You are forced on exertion .
You have always a profession , pursuits , business of some sort or other , to take you back into the world immediately , and continual occupation and change soon weaken impressions ."
" Granting your assertion that the world does all this so soon for men ( which , however , I do not think I shall grant ), it does not apply to Benwick .
He has not been forced upon any exertion .
The peace turned him on shore at the very moment , and he has been living with us , in our little family circle , ever since ."
" True ," said Anne , " very true ; I did not recollect ; but what shall we say now , Captain Harville ?
If the change be not from outward circumstances , it must be from within ; it must be nature , man ' s nature , which has done the business for Captain Benwick ."
" No , no , it is not man ' s nature .
I will not allow it to be more man ' s nature than woman ' s to be inconstant and forget those they do love , or have loved .
I believe the reverse .
I believe in a true analogy between our bodily frames and our mental ; and that as our bodies are the strongest , so are our feelings ; capable of bearing most rough usage , and riding out the heaviest weather ."
" Your feelings may be the strongest ," replied Anne , " but the same spirit of analogy will authorise me to assert that ours are the most tender .
Man is more robust than woman , but he is not longer lived ; which exactly explains my view of the nature of their attachments .
Nay , it would be too hard upon you , if it were otherwise .
You have difficulties , and privations , and dangers enough to struggle with .
You are always labouring and toiling , exposed to every risk and hardship .
Your home , country , friends , all quitted .
Neither time , nor health , nor life , to be called your own .
It would be hard , indeed " ( with a faltering voice ), " if woman ' s feelings were to be added to all this ."
" We shall never agree upon this question ," Captain Harville was beginning to say , when a slight noise called their attention to Captain Wentworth ' s hitherto perfectly quiet division of the room .
It was nothing more than that his pen had fallen down ; but Anne was startled at finding him nearer than she had supposed , and half inclined to suspect that the pen had only fallen because he had been occupied by them , striving to catch sounds , which yet she did not think he could have caught .
" Have you finished your letter ?"
said Captain Harville .
" Not quite , a few lines more .
I shall have done in five minutes ."
" There is no hurry on my side .
I am only ready whenever you are .
I am in very good anchorage here ," ( smiling at Anne ,) " well supplied , and want for nothing .
No hurry for a signal at all .
Well , Miss Elliot ," ( lowering his voice ,) " as I was saying we shall never agree , I suppose , upon this point .
No man and woman , would , probably .
But let me observe that all histories are against you -- all stories , prose and verse .
If I had such a memory as Benwick , I could bring you fifty quotations in a moment on my side the argument , and I do not think I ever opened a book in my life which had not something to say upon woman ' s inconstancy .
Songs and proverbs , all talk of woman ' s fickleness .
But perhaps you will say , these were all written by men ."
" Perhaps I shall .
Yes , yes , if you please , no reference to examples in books .
Men have had every advantage of us in telling their own story .
Education has been theirs in so much higher a degree ; the pen has been in their hands .
I will not allow books to prove anything ."
" But how shall we prove anything ?"
" We never shall .
We never can expect to prove any thing upon such a point .
It is a difference of opinion which does not admit of proof .
We each begin , probably , with a little bias towards our own sex ; and upon that bias build every circumstance in favour of it which has occurred within our own circle ; many of which circumstances ( perhaps those very cases which strike us the most ) may be precisely such as cannot be brought forward without betraying a confidence , or in some respect saying what should not be said ."
" Ah !"
cried Captain Harville , in a tone of strong feeling , " if I could but make you comprehend what a man suffers when he takes a last look at his wife and children , and watches the boat that he has sent them off in , as long as it is in sight , and then turns away and says , ` God knows whether we ever meet again !'
And then , if I could convey to you the glow of his soul when he does see them again ; when , coming back after a twelvemonth ' s absence , perhaps , and obliged to put into another port , he calculates how soon it be possible to get them there , pretending to deceive himself , and saying , ` They cannot be here till such a day ,' but all the while hoping for them twelve hours sooner , and seeing them arrive at last , as if Heaven had given them wings , by many hours sooner still !
If I could explain to you all this , and all that a man can bear and do , and glories to do , for the sake of these treasures of his existence !
I speak , you know , only of such men as have hearts !"
pressing his own with emotion .
" Oh !"
cried Anne eagerly , " I hope I do justice to all that is felt by you , and by those who resemble you .
God forbid that I should undervalue the warm and faithful feelings of any of my fellow - creatures !
I should deserve utter contempt if I dared to suppose that true attachment and constancy were known only by woman .
No , I believe you capable of everything great and good in your married lives .
I believe you equal to every important exertion , and to every domestic forbearance , so long as -- if I may be allowed the expression -- so long as you have an object .
I mean while the woman you love lives , and lives for you .
All the privilege I claim for my own sex ( it is not a very enviable one ; you need not covet it ), is that of loving longest , when existence or when hope is gone ."
She could not immediately have uttered another sentence ; her heart was too full , her breath too much oppressed .
" You are a good soul ," cried Captain Harville , putting his hand on her arm , quite affectionately .
" There is no quarrelling with you .
And when I think of Benwick , my tongue is tied ."
Their attention was called towards the others .
Mrs Croft was taking leave .
" Here , Frederick , you and I part company , I believe ," said she .
" I am going home , and you have an engagement with your friend .
To - night we may have the pleasure of all meeting again at your party ," ( turning to Anne .)
" We had your sister ' s card yesterday , and I understood Frederick had a card too , though I did not see it ; and you are disengaged , Frederick , are you not , as well as ourselves ?"
Captain Wentworth was folding up a letter in great haste , and either could not or would not answer fully .
" Yes ," said he , " very true ; here we separate , but Harville and I shall soon be after you ; that is , Harville , if you are ready , I am in half a minute .
I know you will not be sorry to be off .
I shall be at your service in half a minute ."
Mrs Croft left them , and Captain Wentworth , having sealed his letter with great rapidity , was indeed ready , and had even a hurried , agitated air , which shewed impatience to be gone .
Anne knew not how to understand it .
She had the kindest " Good morning , God bless you !"
from Captain Harville , but from him not a word , nor a look !
He had passed out of the room without a look !
She had only time , however , to move closer to the table where he had been writing , when footsteps were heard returning ; the door opened , it was himself .
He begged their pardon , but he had forgotten his gloves , and instantly crossing the room to the writing table , he drew out a letter from under the scattered paper , placed it before Anne with eyes of glowing entreaty fixed on her for a time , and hastily collecting his gloves , was again out of the room , almost before Mrs Musgrove was aware of his being in it : the work of an instant !
The revolution which one instant had made in Anne , was almost beyond expression .
The letter , with a direction hardly legible , to " Miss A . E .--," was evidently the one which he had been folding so hastily .
While supposed to be writing only to Captain Benwick , he had been also addressing her !
On the contents of that letter depended all which this world could do for her .
Anything was possible , anything might be defied rather than suspense .
Mrs Musgrove had little arrangements of her own at her own table ; to their protection she must trust , and sinking into the chair which he had occupied , succeeding to the very spot where he had leaned and written , her eyes devoured the following words :
" I can listen no longer in silence .
I must speak to you by such means as are within my reach .
You pierce my soul .
I am half agony , half hope .
Tell me not that I am too late , that such precious feelings are gone for ever .
I offer myself to you again with a heart even more your own than when you almost broke it , eight years and a half ago .
Dare not say that man forgets sooner than woman , that his love has an earlier death .
I have loved none but you .
Unjust I may have been , weak and resentful I have been , but never inconstant .
You alone have brought me to Bath .
For you alone , I think and plan .
Have you not seen this ?
Can you fail to have understood my wishes ?
I had not waited even these ten days , could I have read your feelings , as I think you must have penetrated mine .
I can hardly write .
I am every instant hearing something which overpowers me .
You sink your voice , but I can distinguish the tones of that voice when they would be lost on others .
Too good , too excellent creature !
You do us justice , indeed .
You do believe that there is true attachment and constancy among men .
Believe it to be most fervent , most undeviating , in F . W .
" I must go , uncertain of my fate ; but I shall return hither , or follow your party , as soon as possible .
A word , a look , will be enough to decide whether I enter your father ' s house this evening or never ."
Such a letter was not to be soon recovered from .
Half and hour ' s solitude and reflection might have tranquillized her ; but the ten minutes only which now passed before she was interrupted , with all the restraints of her situation , could do nothing towards tranquillity .
Every moment rather brought fresh agitation .
It was overpowering happiness .
And before she was beyond the first stage of full sensation , Charles , Mary , and Henrietta all came in .
The absolute necessity of seeming like herself produced then an immediate struggle ; but after a while she could do no more .
She began not to understand a word they said , and was obliged to plead indisposition and excuse herself .
They could then see that she looked very ill , were shocked and concerned , and would not stir without her for the world .
This was dreadful .
Would they only have gone away , and left her in the quiet possession of that room it would have been her cure ; but to have them all standing or waiting around her was distracting , and in desperation , she said she would go home .
" By all means , my dear ," cried Mrs Musgrove , " go home directly , and take care of yourself , that you may be fit for the evening .
I wish Sarah was here to doctor you , but I am no doctor myself .
Charles , ring and order a chair .
She must not walk ."
But the chair would never do .
Worse than all !
To lose the possibility of speaking two words to Captain Wentworth in the course of her quiet , solitary progress up the town ( and she felt almost certain of meeting him ) could not be borne .
The chair was earnestly protested against , and Mrs Musgrove , who thought only of one sort of illness , having assured herself with some anxiety , that there had been no fall in the case ; that Anne had not at any time lately slipped down , and got a blow on her head ; that she was perfectly convinced of having had no fall ; could part with her cheerfully , and depend on finding her better at night .
Anxious to omit no possible precaution , Anne struggled , and said --
" I am afraid , ma ' am , that it is not perfectly understood .
Pray be so good as to mention to the other gentlemen that we hope to see your whole party this evening .
I am afraid there had been some mistake ; and I wish you particularly to assure Captain Harville and Captain Wentworth , that we hope to see them both ."
" Oh !
my dear , it is quite understood , I give you my word .
Captain Harville has no thought but of going ."
" Do you think so ?
But I am afraid ; and I should be so very sorry .
Will you promise me to mention it , when you see them again ?
You will see them both this morning , I dare say .
Do promise me ."
" To be sure I will , if you wish it .
Charles , if you see Captain Harville anywhere , remember to give Miss Anne ' s message .
But indeed , my dear , you need not be uneasy .
Captain Harville holds himself quite engaged , I ' ll answer for it ; and Captain Wentworth the same , I dare say ."
Anne could do no more ; but her heart prophesied some mischance to damp the perfection of her felicity .
It could not be very lasting , however .
Even if he did not come to Camden Place himself , it would be in her power to send an intelligible sentence by Captain Harville .
Another momentary vexation occurred .
Charles , in his real concern and good nature , would go home with her ; there was no preventing him .
This was almost cruel .
But she could not be long ungrateful ; he was sacrificing an engagement at a gunsmith ' s , to be of use to her ; and she set off with him , with no feeling but gratitude apparent .
They were on Union Street , when a quicker step behind , a something of familiar sound , gave her two moments ' preparation for the sight of Captain Wentworth .
He joined them ; but , as if irresolute whether to join or to pass on , said nothing , only looked .
Anne could command herself enough to receive that look , and not repulsively .
The cheeks which had been pale now glowed , and the movements which had hesitated were decided .
He walked by her side .
Presently , struck by a sudden thought , Charles said --
" Captain Wentworth , which way are you going ?
Only to Gay Street , or farther up the town ?"
" I hardly know ," replied Captain Wentworth , surprised .
" Are you going as high as Belmont ?
Are you going near Camden Place ?
Because , if you are , I shall have no scruple in asking you to take my place , and give Anne your arm to her father ' s door .
She is rather done for this morning , and must not go so far without help , and I ought to be at that fellow ' s in the Market Place .
He promised me the sight of a capital gun he is just going to send off ; said he would keep it unpacked to the last possible moment , that I might see it ; and if I do not turn back now , I have no chance .
By his description , a good deal like the second size double - barrel of mine , which you shot with one day round Winthrop ."
There could not be an objection .
There could be only the most proper alacrity , a most obliging compliance for public view ; and smiles reined in and spirits dancing in private rapture .
In half a minute Charles was at the bottom of Union Street again , and the other two proceeding together : and soon words enough had passed between them to decide their direction towards the comparatively quiet and retired gravel walk , where the power of conversation would make the present hour a blessing indeed , and prepare it for all the immortality which the happiest recollections of their own future lives could bestow .
There they exchanged again those feelings and those promises which had once before seemed to secure everything , but which had been followed by so many , many years of division and estrangement .
There they returned again into the past , more exquisitely happy , perhaps , in their re - union , than when it had been first projected ; more tender , more tried , more fixed in a knowledge of each other ' s character , truth , and attachment ; more equal to act , more justified in acting .
And there , as they slowly paced the gradual ascent , heedless of every group around them , seeing neither sauntering politicians , bustling housekeepers , flirting girls , nor nursery - maids and children , they could indulge in those retrospections and acknowledgements , and especially in those explanations of what had directly preceded the present moment , which were so poignant and so ceaseless in interest .
All the little variations of the last week were gone through ; and of yesterday and today there could scarcely be an end .
She had not mistaken him .
Jealousy of Mr Elliot had been the retarding weight , the doubt , the torment .
That had begun to operate in the very hour of first meeting her in Bath ; that had returned , after a short suspension , to ruin the concert ; and that had influenced him in everything he had said and done , or omitted to say and do , in the last four - and - twenty hours .
It had been gradually yielding to the better hopes which her looks , or words , or actions occasionally encouraged ; it had been vanquished at last by those sentiments and those tones which had reached him while she talked with Captain Harville ; and under the irresistible governance of which he had seized a sheet of paper , and poured out his feelings .
Of what he had then written , nothing was to be retracted or qualified .
He persisted in having loved none but her .
She had never been supplanted .
He never even believed himself to see her equal .
Thus much indeed he was obliged to acknowledge : that he had been constant unconsciously , nay unintentionally ; that he had meant to forget her , and believed it to be done .
He had imagined himself indifferent , when he had only been angry ; and he had been unjust to her merits , because he had been a sufferer from them .
Her character was now fixed on his mind as perfection itself , maintaining the loveliest medium of fortitude and gentleness ; but he was obliged to acknowledge that only at Uppercross had he learnt to do her justice , and only at Lyme had he begun to understand himself .
At Lyme , he had received lessons of more than one sort .
The passing admiration of Mr Elliot had at least roused him , and the scenes on the Cobb and at Captain Harville ' s had fixed her superiority .
In his preceding attempts to attach himself to Louisa Musgrove ( the attempts of angry pride ), he protested that he had for ever felt it to be impossible ; that he had not cared , could not care , for Louisa ; though till that day , till the leisure for reflection which followed it , he had not understood the perfect excellence of the mind with which Louisa ' s could so ill bear a comparison , or the perfect unrivalled hold it possessed over his own .
There , he had learnt to distinguish between the steadiness of principle and the obstinacy of self - will , between the darings of heedlessness and the resolution of a collected mind .
There he had seen everything to exalt in his estimation the woman he had lost ; and there begun to deplore the pride , the folly , the madness of resentment , which had kept him from trying to regain her when thrown in his way .
From that period his penance had become severe .
He had no sooner been free from the horror and remorse attending the first few days of Louisa ' s accident , no sooner begun to feel himself alive again , than he had begun to feel himself , though alive , not at liberty .
" I found ," said he , " that I was considered by Harville an engaged man !
That neither Harville nor his wife entertained a doubt of our mutual attachment .
I was startled and shocked .
To a degree , I could contradict this instantly ; but , when I began to reflect that others might have felt the same -- her own family , nay , perhaps herself -- I was no longer at my own disposal .
I was hers in honour if she wished it .
I had been unguarded .
I had not thought seriously on this subject before .
I had not considered that my excessive intimacy must have its danger of ill consequence in many ways ; and that I had no right to be trying whether I could attach myself to either of the girls , at the risk of raising even an unpleasant report , were there no other ill effects .
I had been grossly wrong , and must abide the consequences ."
He found too late , in short , that he had entangled himself ; and that precisely as he became fully satisfied of his not caring for Louisa at all , he must regard himself as bound to her , if her sentiments for him were what the Harvilles supposed .
It determined him to leave Lyme , and await her complete recovery elsewhere .
He would gladly weaken , by any fair means , whatever feelings or speculations concerning him might exist ; and he went , therefore , to his brother ' s , meaning after a while to return to Kellynch , and act as circumstances might require .
" I was six weeks with Edward ," said he , " and saw him happy .
I could have no other pleasure .
I deserved none .
He enquired after you very particularly ; asked even if you were personally altered , little suspecting that to my eye you could never alter ."
Anne smiled , and let it pass .
It was too pleasing a blunder for a reproach .
It is something for a woman to be assured , in her eight - and - twentieth year , that she has not lost one charm of earlier youth ; but the value of such homage was inexpressibly increased to Anne , by comparing it with former words , and feeling it to be the result , not the cause of a revival of his warm attachment .
He had remained in Shropshire , lamenting the blindness of his own pride , and the blunders of his own calculations , till at once released from Louisa by the astonishing and felicitous intelligence of her engagement with Benwick .
" Here ," said he , " ended the worst of my state ; for now I could at least put myself in the way of happiness ; I could exert myself ; I could do something .
But to be waiting so long in inaction , and waiting only for evil , had been dreadful .
Within the first five minutes I said , ` I will be at Bath on Wednesday ,' and I was .
Was it unpardonable to think it worth my while to come ?
and to arrive with some degree of hope ?
You were single .
It was possible that you might retain the feelings of the past , as I did ; and one encouragement happened to be mine .
I could never doubt that you would be loved and sought by others , but I knew to a certainty that you had refused one man , at least , of better pretensions than myself ; and I could not help often saying , ` Was this for me ?'"
Their first meeting in Milsom Street afforded much to be said , but the concert still more .
That evening seemed to be made up of exquisite moments .
The moment of her stepping forward in the Octagon Room to speak to him : the moment of Mr Elliot ' s appearing and tearing her away , and one or two subsequent moments , marked by returning hope or increasing despondency , were dwelt on with energy .
" To see you ," cried he , " in the midst of those who could not be my well - wishers ; to see your cousin close by you , conversing and smiling , and feel all the horrible eligibilities and proprieties of the match !
To consider it as the certain wish of every being who could hope to influence you !
Even if your own feelings were reluctant or indifferent , to consider what powerful supports would be his !
Was it not enough to make the fool of me which I appeared ?
How could I look on without agony ?
Was not the very sight of the friend who sat behind you , was not the recollection of what had been , the knowledge of her influence , the indelible , immoveable impression of what persuasion had once done -- was it not all against me ?"
" You should have distinguished ," replied Anne .
" You should not have suspected me now ; the case is so different , and my age is so different .
If I was wrong in yielding to persuasion once , remember that it was to persuasion exerted on the side of safety , not of risk .
When I yielded , I thought it was to duty , but no duty could be called in aid here .
In marrying a man indifferent to me , all risk would have been incurred , and all duty violated ."
" Perhaps I ought to have reasoned thus ," he replied , " but I could not .
I could not derive benefit from the late knowledge I had acquired of your character .
I could not bring it into play ; it was overwhelmed , buried , lost in those earlier feelings which I had been smarting under year after year .
I could think of you only as one who had yielded , who had given me up , who had been influenced by any one rather than by me .
I saw you with the very person who had guided you in that year of misery .
I had no reason to believe her of less authority now .
The force of habit was to be added ."
" I should have thought ," said Anne , " that my manner to yourself might have spared you much or all of this ."
" No , no !
your manner might be only the ease which your engagement to another man would give .
I left you in this belief ; and yet , I was determined to see you again .
My spirits rallied with the morning , and I felt that I had still a motive for remaining here ."
At last Anne was at home again , and happier than any one in that house could have conceived .
All the surprise and suspense , and every other painful part of the morning dissipated by this conversation , she re - entered the house so happy as to be obliged to find an alloy in some momentary apprehensions of its being impossible to last .
An interval of meditation , serious and grateful , was the best corrective of everything dangerous in such high - wrought felicity ; and she went to her room , and grew steadfast and fearless in the thankfulness of her enjoyment .
The evening came , the drawing - rooms were lighted up , the company assembled .
It was but a card party , it was but a mixture of those who had never met before , and those who met too often ; a commonplace business , too numerous for intimacy , too small for variety ; but Anne had never found an evening shorter .
Glowing and lovely in sensibility and happiness , and more generally admired than she thought about or cared for , she had cheerful or forbearing feelings for every creature around her .
Mr Elliot was there ; she avoided , but she could pity him .
The Wallises , she had amusement in understanding them .
Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret -- they would soon be innoxious cousins to her .
She cared not for Mrs Clay , and had nothing to blush for in the public manners of her father and sister .
With the Musgroves , there was the happy chat of perfect ease ; with Captain Harville , the kind - hearted intercourse of brother and sister ; with Lady Russell , attempts at conversation , which a delicious consciousness cut short ; with Admiral and Mrs Croft , everything of peculiar cordiality and fervent interest , which the same consciousness sought to conceal ; and with Captain Wentworth , some moments of communications continually occurring , and always the hope of more , and always the knowledge of his being there .
It was in one of these short meetings , each apparently occupied in admiring a fine display of greenhouse plants , that she said --
" I have been thinking over the past , and trying impartially to judge of the right and wrong , I mean with regard to myself ; and I must believe that I was right , much as I suffered from it , that I was perfectly right in being guided by the friend whom you will love better than you do now .
To me , she was in the place of a parent .
Do not mistake me , however .
I am not saying that she did not err in her advice .
It was , perhaps , one of those cases in which advice is good or bad only as the event decides ; and for myself , I certainly never should , in any circumstance of tolerable similarity , give such advice .
But I mean , that I was right in submitting to her , and that if I had done otherwise , I should have suffered more in continuing the engagement than I did even in giving it up , because I should have suffered in my conscience .
I have now , as far as such a sentiment is allowable in human nature , nothing to reproach myself with ; and if I mistake not , a strong sense of duty is no bad part of a woman ' s portion ."
He looked at her , looked at Lady Russell , and looking again at her , replied , as if in cool deliberation --
" Not yet .
But there are hopes of her being forgiven in time .
I trust to being in charity with her soon .
But I too have been thinking over the past , and a question has suggested itself , whether there may not have been one person more my enemy even than that lady ?
My own self .
Tell me if , when I returned to England in the year eight , with a few thousand pounds , and was posted into the Laconia , if I had then written to you , would you have answered my letter ?
Would you , in short , have renewed the engagement then ?"
" Would I !"
was all her answer ; but the accent was decisive enough .
" Good God !"
he cried , " you would !
It is not that I did not think of it , or desire it , as what could alone crown all my other success ; but I was proud , too proud to ask again .
I did not understand you .
I shut my eyes , and would not understand you , or do you justice .
This is a recollection which ought to make me forgive every one sooner than myself .
Six years of separation and suffering might have been spared .
It is a sort of pain , too , which is new to me .
I have been used to the gratification of believing myself to earn every blessing that I enjoyed .
I have valued myself on honourable toils and just rewards .
Like other great men under reverses ," he added , with a smile .
" I must endeavour to subdue my mind to my fortune .
I must learn to brook being happier than I deserve ."
Chapter 24
Who can be in doubt of what followed ?
When any two young people take it into their heads to marry , they are pretty sure by perseverance to carry their point , be they ever so poor , or ever so imprudent , or ever so little likely to be necessary to each other ' s ultimate comfort .
This may be bad morality to conclude with , but I believe it to be truth ; and if such parties succeed , how should a Captain Wentworth and an Anne Elliot , with the advantage of maturity of mind , consciousness of right , and one independent fortune between them , fail of bearing down every opposition ?
They might in fact , have borne down a great deal more than they met with , for there was little to distress them beyond the want of graciousness and warmth .
Sir Walter made no objection , and Elizabeth did nothing worse than look cold and unconcerned .
Captain Wentworth , with five - and - twenty thousand pounds , and as high in his profession as merit and activity could place him , was no longer nobody .
He was now esteemed quite worthy to address the daughter of a foolish , spendthrift baronet , who had not had principle or sense enough to maintain himself in the situation in which Providence had placed him , and who could give his daughter at present but a small part of the share of ten thousand pounds which must be hers hereafter .
Sir Walter , indeed , though he had no affection for Anne , and no vanity flattered , to make him really happy on the occasion , was very far from thinking it a bad match for her .
On the contrary , when he saw more of Captain Wentworth , saw him repeatedly by daylight , and eyed him well , he was very much struck by his personal claims , and felt that his superiority of appearance might be not unfairly balanced against her superiority of rank ; and all this , assisted by his well - sounding name , enabled Sir Walter at last to prepare his pen , with a very good grace , for the insertion of the marriage in the volume of honour .
The only one among them , whose opposition of feeling could excite any serious anxiety was Lady Russell .
Anne knew that Lady Russell must be suffering some pain in understanding and relinquishing Mr Elliot , and be making some struggles to become truly acquainted with , and do justice to Captain Wentworth .
This however was what Lady Russell had now to do .
She must learn to feel that she had been mistaken with regard to both ; that she had been unfairly influenced by appearances in each ; that because Captain Wentworth ' s manners had not suited her own ideas , she had been too quick in suspecting them to indicate a character of dangerous impetuosity ; and that because Mr Elliot ' s manners had precisely pleased her in their propriety and correctness , their general politeness and suavity , she had been too quick in receiving them as the certain result of the most correct opinions and well - regulated mind .
There was nothing less for Lady Russell to do , than to admit that she had been pretty completely wrong , and to take up a new set of opinions and of hopes .
There is a quickness of perception in some , a nicety in the discernment of character , a natural penetration , in short , which no experience in others can equal , and Lady Russell had been less gifted in this part of understanding than her young friend .
But she was a very good woman , and if her second object was to be sensible and well - judging , her first was to see Anne happy .
She loved Anne better than she loved her own abilities ; and when the awkwardness of the beginning was over , found little hardship in attaching herself as a mother to the man who was securing the happiness of her other child .
Of all the family , Mary was probably the one most immediately gratified by the circumstance .
It was creditable to have a sister married , and she might flatter herself with having been greatly instrumental to the connexion , by keeping Anne with her in the autumn ; and as her own sister must be better than her husband ' s sisters , it was very agreeable that Captain Wentworth should be a richer man than either Captain Benwick or Charles Hayter .
She had something to suffer , perhaps , when they came into contact again , in seeing Anne restored to the rights of seniority , and the mistress of a very pretty landaulette ; but she had a future to look forward to , of powerful consolation .
Anne had no Uppercross Hall before her , no landed estate , no headship of a family ; and if they could but keep Captain Wentworth from being made a baronet , she would not change situations with Anne .
It would be well for the eldest sister if she were equally satisfied with her situation , for a change is not very probable there .
She had soon the mortification of seeing Mr Elliot withdraw , and no one of proper condition has since presented himself to raise even the unfounded hopes which sunk with him .
The news of his cousins Anne ' s engagement burst on Mr Elliot most unexpectedly .
It deranged his best plan of domestic happiness , his best hope of keeping Sir Walter single by the watchfulness which a son - in - law ' s rights would have given .
But , though discomfited and disappointed , he could still do something for his own interest and his own enjoyment .
He soon quitted Bath ; and on Mrs Clay ' s quitting it soon afterwards , and being next heard of as established under his protection in London , it was evident how double a game he had been playing , and how determined he was to save himself from being cut out by one artful woman , at least .
Mrs Clay ' s affections had overpowered her interest , and she had sacrificed , for the young man ' s sake , the possibility of scheming longer for Sir Walter .
She has abilities , however , as well as affections ; and it is now a doubtful point whether his cunning , or hers , may finally carry the day ; whether , after preventing her from being the wife of Sir Walter , he may not be wheedled and caressed at last into making her the wife of Sir William .
It cannot be doubted that Sir Walter and Elizabeth were shocked and mortified by the loss of their companion , and the discovery of their deception in her .
They had their great cousins , to be sure , to resort to for comfort ; but they must long feel that to flatter and follow others , without being flattered and followed in turn , is but a state of half enjoyment .
Anne , satisfied at a very early period of Lady Russell ' s meaning to love Captain Wentworth as she ought , had no other alloy to the happiness of her prospects than what arose from the consciousness of having no relations to bestow on him which a man of sense could value .
There she felt her own inferiority very keenly .
The disproportion in their fortune was nothing ; it did not give her a moment ' s regret ; but to have no family to receive and estimate him properly , nothing of respectability , of harmony , of good will to offer in return for all the worth and all the prompt welcome which met her in his brothers and sisters , was a source of as lively pain as her mind could well be sensible of under circumstances of otherwise strong felicity .
She had but two friends in the world to add to his list , Lady Russell and Mrs Smith .
To those , however , he was very well disposed to attach himself .
Lady Russell , in spite of all her former transgressions , he could now value from his heart .
While he was not obliged to say that he believed her to have been right in originally dividing them , he was ready to say almost everything else in her favour , and as for Mrs Smith , she had claims of various kinds to recommend her quickly and permanently .
Her recent good offices by Anne had been enough in themselves , and their marriage , instead of depriving her of one friend , secured her two .
She was their earliest visitor in their settled life ; and Captain Wentworth , by putting her in the way of recovering her husband ' s property in the West Indies , by writing for her , acting for her , and seeing her through all the petty difficulties of the case with the activity and exertion of a fearless man and a determined friend , fully requited the services which she had rendered , or ever meant to render , to his wife .
Mrs Smith ' s enjoyments were not spoiled by this improvement of income , with some improvement of health , and the acquisition of such friends to be often with , for her cheerfulness and mental alacrity did not fail her ; and while these prime supplies of good remained , she might have bid defiance even to greater accessions of worldly prosperity .
She might have been absolutely rich and perfectly healthy , and yet be happy .
Her spring of felicity was in the glow of her spirits , as her friend Anne ' s was in the warmth of her heart .
Anne was tenderness itself , and she had the full worth of it in Captain Wentworth ' s affection .
His profession was all that could ever make her friends wish that tenderness less , the dread of a future war all that could dim her sunshine .
She gloried in being a sailor ' s wife , but she must pay the tax of quick alarm for belonging to that profession which is , if possible , more distinguished in its domestic virtues than in its national importance .
Finis
[ Sense and Sensibility by Jane Austen 1811 ]
CHAPTER 1
The family of Dashwood had long been settled in Sussex .
Their estate was large , and their residence was at Norland Park , in the centre of their property , where , for many generations , they had lived in so respectable a manner as to engage the general good opinion of their surrounding acquaintance .
The late owner of this estate was a single man , who lived to a very advanced age , and who for many years of his life , had a constant companion and housekeeper in his sister .
But her death , which happened ten years before his own , produced a great alteration in his home ; for to supply her loss , he invited and received into his house the family of his nephew Mr . Henry Dashwood , the legal inheritor of the Norland estate , and the person to whom he intended to bequeath it .
In the society of his nephew and niece , and their children , the old Gentleman ' s days were comfortably spent .
His attachment to them all increased .
The constant attention of Mr . and Mrs . Henry Dashwood to his wishes , which proceeded not merely from interest , but from goodness of heart , gave him every degree of solid comfort which his age could receive ; and the cheerfulness of the children added a relish to his existence .
By a former marriage , Mr . Henry Dashwood had one son : by his present lady , three daughters .
The son , a steady respectable young man , was amply provided for by the fortune of his mother , which had been large , and half of which devolved on him on his coming of age .
By his own marriage , likewise , which happened soon afterwards , he added to his wealth .
To him therefore the succession to the Norland estate was not so really important as to his sisters ; for their fortune , independent of what might arise to them from their father ' s inheriting that property , could be but small .
Their mother had nothing , and their father only seven thousand pounds in his own disposal ; for the remaining moiety of his first wife ' s fortune was also secured to her child , and he had only a life - interest in it .
The old gentleman died : his will was read , and like almost every other will , gave as much disappointment as pleasure .
He was neither so unjust , nor so ungrateful , as to leave his estate from his nephew ;-- but he left it to him on such terms as destroyed half the value of the bequest .
Mr . Dashwood had wished for it more for the sake of his wife and daughters than for himself or his son ;-- but to his son , and his son ' s son , a child of four years old , it was secured , in such a way , as to leave to himself no power of providing for those who were most dear to him , and who most needed a provision by any charge on the estate , or by any sale of its valuable woods .
The whole was tied up for the benefit of this child , who , in occasional visits with his father and mother at Norland , had so far gained on the affections of his uncle , by such attractions as are by no means unusual in children of two or three years old ; an imperfect articulation , an earnest desire of having his own way , many cunning tricks , and a great deal of noise , as to outweigh all the value of all the attention which , for years , he had received from his niece and her daughters .
He meant not to be unkind , however , and , as a mark of his affection for the three girls , he left them a thousand pounds a - piece .
Mr . Dashwood ' s disappointment was , at first , severe ; but his temper was cheerful and sanguine ; and he might reasonably hope to live many years , and by living economically , lay by a considerable sum from the produce of an estate already large , and capable of almost immediate improvement .
But the fortune , which had been so tardy in coming , was his only one twelvemonth .
He survived his uncle no longer ; and ten thousand pounds , including the late legacies , was all that remained for his widow and daughters .
His son was sent for as soon as his danger was known , and to him Mr . Dashwood recommended , with all the strength and urgency which illness could command , the interest of his mother - in - law and sisters .
Mr . John Dashwood had not the strong feelings of the rest of the family ; but he was affected by a recommendation of such a nature at such a time , and he promised to do every thing in his power to make them comfortable .
His father was rendered easy by such an assurance , and Mr . John Dashwood had then leisure to consider how much there might prudently be in his power to do for them .
He was not an ill - disposed young man , unless to be rather cold hearted and rather selfish is to be ill - disposed : but he was , in general , well respected ; for he conducted himself with propriety in the discharge of his ordinary duties .
Had he married a more amiable woman , he might have been made still more respectable than he was :-- he might even have been made amiable himself ; for he was very young when he married , and very fond of his wife .
But Mrs . John Dashwood was a strong caricature of himself ;-- more narrow - minded and selfish .
When he gave his promise to his father , he meditated within himself to increase the fortunes of his sisters by the present of a thousand pounds a - piece .
He then really thought himself equal to it .
The prospect of four thousand a - year , in addition to his present income , besides the remaining half of his own mother ' s fortune , warmed his heart , and made him feel capable of generosity .-- " Yes , he would give them three thousand pounds : it would be liberal and handsome !
It would be enough to make them completely easy .
Three thousand pounds !
he could spare so considerable a sum with little inconvenience ."
-- He thought of it all day long , and for many days successively , and he did not repent .
No sooner was his father ' s funeral over , than Mrs . John Dashwood , without sending any notice of her intention to her mother - in - law , arrived with her child and their attendants .
No one could dispute her right to come ; the house was her husband ' s from the moment of his father ' s decease ; but the indelicacy of her conduct was so much the greater , and to a woman in Mrs . Dashwood ' s situation , with only common feelings , must have been highly unpleasing ;-- but in HER mind there was a sense of honor so keen , a generosity so romantic , that any offence of the kind , by whomsoever given or received , was to her a source of immoveable disgust .
Mrs . John Dashwood had never been a favourite with any of her husband ' s family ; but she had had no opportunity , till the present , of shewing them with how little attention to the comfort of other people she could act when occasion required it .
So acutely did Mrs . Dashwood feel this ungracious behaviour , and so earnestly did she despise her daughter - in - law for it , that , on the arrival of the latter , she would have quitted the house for ever , had not the entreaty of her eldest girl induced her first to reflect on the propriety of going , and her own tender love for all her three children determined her afterwards to stay , and for their sakes avoid a breach with their brother .
Elinor , this eldest daughter , whose advice was so effectual , possessed a strength of understanding , and coolness of judgment , which qualified her , though only nineteen , to be the counsellor of her mother , and enabled her frequently to counteract , to the advantage of them all , that eagerness of mind in Mrs . Dashwood which must generally have led to imprudence .
She had an excellent heart ;-- her disposition was affectionate , and her feelings were strong ; but she knew how to govern them : it was a knowledge which her mother had yet to learn ; and which one of her sisters had resolved never to be taught .
Marianne ' s abilities were , in many respects , quite equal to Elinor ' s .
She was sensible and clever ; but eager in everything : her sorrows , her joys , could have no moderation .
She was generous , amiable , interesting : she was everything but prudent .
The resemblance between her and her mother was strikingly great .
Elinor saw , with concern , the excess of her sister ' s sensibility ; but by Mrs . Dashwood it was valued and cherished .
They encouraged each other now in the violence of their affliction .
The agony of grief which overpowered them at first , was voluntarily renewed , was sought for , was created again and again .
They gave themselves up wholly to their sorrow , seeking increase of wretchedness in every reflection that could afford it , and resolved against ever admitting consolation in future .
Elinor , too , was deeply afflicted ; but still she could struggle , she could exert herself .
She could consult with her brother , could receive her sister - in - law on her arrival , and treat her with proper attention ; and could strive to rouse her mother to similar exertion , and encourage her to similar forbearance .
Margaret , the other sister , was a good - humored , well - disposed girl ; but as she had already imbibed a good deal of Marianne ' s romance , without having much of her sense , she did not , at thirteen , bid fair to equal her sisters at a more advanced period of life .
CHAPTER 2
Mrs . John Dashwood now installed herself mistress of Norland ; and her mother and sisters - in - law were degraded to the condition of visitors .
As such , however , they were treated by her with quiet civility ; and by her husband with as much kindness as he could feel towards anybody beyond himself , his wife , and their child .
He really pressed them , with some earnestness , to consider Norland as their home ; and , as no plan appeared so eligible to Mrs . Dashwood as remaining there till she could accommodate herself with a house in the neighbourhood , his invitation was accepted .
A continuance in a place where everything reminded her of former delight , was exactly what suited her mind .
In seasons of cheerfulness , no temper could be more cheerful than hers , or possess , in a greater degree , that sanguine expectation of happiness which is happiness itself .
But in sorrow she must be equally carried away by her fancy , and as far beyond consolation as in pleasure she was beyond alloy .
Mrs . John Dashwood did not at all approve of what her husband intended to do for his sisters .
To take three thousand pounds from the fortune of their dear little boy would be impoverishing him to the most dreadful degree .
She begged him to think again on the subject .
How could he answer it to himself to rob his child , and his only child too , of so large a sum ?
And what possible claim could the Miss Dashwoods , who were related to him only by half blood , which she considered as no relationship at all , have on his generosity to so large an amount .
It was very well known that no affection was ever supposed to exist between the children of any man by different marriages ; and why was he to ruin himself , and their poor little Harry , by giving away all his money to his half sisters ?
" It was my father ' s last request to me ," replied her husband , " that I should assist his widow and daughters ."
" He did not know what he was talking of , I dare say ; ten to one but he was light - headed at the time .
Had he been in his right senses , he could not have thought of such a thing as begging you to give away half your fortune from your own child ."
" He did not stipulate for any particular sum , my dear Fanny ; he only requested me , in general terms , to assist them , and make their situation more comfortable than it was in his power to do .
Perhaps it would have been as well if he had left it wholly to myself .
He could hardly suppose I should neglect them .
But as he required the promise , I could not do less than give it ; at least I thought so at the time .
The promise , therefore , was given , and must be performed .
Something must be done for them whenever they leave Norland and settle in a new home ."
" Well , then , LET something be done for them ; but THAT something need not be three thousand pounds .
Consider ," she added , " that when the money is once parted with , it never can return .
Your sisters will marry , and it will be gone for ever .
If , indeed , it could be restored to our poor little boy --"
" Why , to be sure ," said her husband , very gravely , " that would make great difference .
The time may come when Harry will regret that so large a sum was parted with .
If he should have a numerous family , for instance , it would be a very convenient addition ."
" To be sure it would ."
" Perhaps , then , it would be better for all parties , if the sum were diminished one half .-- Five hundred pounds would be a prodigious increase to their fortunes !"
" Oh !
beyond anything great !
What brother on earth would do half so much for his sisters , even if REALLY his sisters !
And as it is -- only half blood !-- But you have such a generous spirit !"
" I would not wish to do any thing mean ," he replied .
" One had rather , on such occasions , do too much than too little .
No one , at least , can think I have not done enough for them : even themselves , they can hardly expect more ."
" There is no knowing what THEY may expect ," said the lady , " but we are not to think of their expectations : the question is , what you can afford to do ."
" Certainly -- and I think I may afford to give them five hundred pounds a - piece .
As it is , without any addition of mine , they will each have about three thousand pounds on their mother ' s death -- a very comfortable fortune for any young woman ."
" To be sure it is ; and , indeed , it strikes me that they can want no addition at all .
They will have ten thousand pounds divided amongst them .
If they marry , they will be sure of doing well , and if they do not , they may all live very comfortably together on the interest of ten thousand pounds ."
" That is very true , and , therefore , I do not know whether , upon the whole , it would not be more advisable to do something for their mother while she lives , rather than for them -- something of the annuity kind I mean .-- My sisters would feel the good effects of it as well as herself .
A hundred a year would make them all perfectly comfortable ."
His wife hesitated a little , however , in giving her consent to this plan .
" To be sure ," said she , " it is better than parting with fifteen hundred pounds at once .
But , then , if Mrs . Dashwood should live fifteen years we shall be completely taken in ."
" Fifteen years !
my dear Fanny ; her life cannot be worth half that purchase ."
" Certainly not ; but if you observe , people always live for ever when there is an annuity to be paid them ; and she is very stout and healthy , and hardly forty .
An annuity is a very serious business ; it comes over and over every year , and there is no getting rid of it .
You are not aware of what you are doing .
I have known a great deal of the trouble of annuities ; for my mother was clogged with the payment of three to old superannuated servants by my father ' s will , and it is amazing how disagreeable she found it .
Twice every year these annuities were to be paid ; and then there was the trouble of getting it to them ; and then one of them was said to have died , and afterwards it turned out to be no such thing .
My mother was quite sick of it .
Her income was not her own , she said , with such perpetual claims on it ; and it was the more unkind in my father , because , otherwise , the money would have been entirely at my mother ' s disposal , without any restriction whatever .
It has given me such an abhorrence of annuities , that I am sure I would not pin myself down to the payment of one for all the world ."
" It is certainly an unpleasant thing ," replied Mr . Dashwood , " to have those kind of yearly drains on one ' s income .
One ' s fortune , as your mother justly says , is NOT one ' s own .
To be tied down to the regular payment of such a sum , on every rent day , is by no means desirable : it takes away one ' s independence ."
" Undoubtedly ; and after all you have no thanks for it .
They think themselves secure , you do no more than what is expected , and it raises no gratitude at all .
If I were you , whatever I did should be done at my own discretion entirely .
I would not bind myself to allow them any thing yearly .
It may be very inconvenient some years to spare a hundred , or even fifty pounds from our own expenses ."
" I believe you are right , my love ; it will be better that there should by no annuity in the case ; whatever I may give them occasionally will be of far greater assistance than a yearly allowance , because they would only enlarge their style of living if they felt sure of a larger income , and would not be sixpence the richer for it at the end of the year .
It will certainly be much the best way .
A present of fifty pounds , now and then , will prevent their ever being distressed for money , and will , I think , be amply discharging my promise to my father ."
" To be sure it will .
Indeed , to say the truth , I am convinced within myself that your father had no idea of your giving them any money at all .
The assistance he thought of , I dare say , was only such as might be reasonably expected of you ; for instance , such as looking out for a comfortable small house for them , helping them to move their things , and sending them presents of fish and game , and so forth , whenever they are in season .
I ' ll lay my life that he meant nothing farther ; indeed , it would be very strange and unreasonable if he did .
Do but consider , my dear Mr . Dashwood , how excessively comfortable your mother - in - law and her daughters may live on the interest of seven thousand pounds , besides the thousand pounds belonging to each of the girls , which brings them in fifty pounds a year a - piece , and , of course , they will pay their mother for their board out of it .
Altogether , they will have five hundred a - year amongst them , and what on earth can four women want for more than that ?-- They will live so cheap !
Their housekeeping will be nothing at all .
They will have no carriage , no horses , and hardly any servants ; they will keep no company , and can have no expenses of any kind !
Only conceive how comfortable they will be !
Five hundred a year !
I am sure I cannot imagine how they will spend half of it ; and as to your giving them more , it is quite absurd to think of it .
They will be much more able to give YOU something ."
" Upon my word ," said Mr . Dashwood , " I believe you are perfectly right .
My father certainly could mean nothing more by his request to me than what you say .
I clearly understand it now , and I will strictly fulfil my engagement by such acts of assistance and kindness to them as you have described .
When my mother removes into another house my services shall be readily given to accommodate her as far as I can .
Some little present of furniture too may be acceptable then ."
" Certainly ," returned Mrs . John Dashwood .
" But , however , ONE thing must be considered .
When your father and mother moved to Norland , though the furniture of Stanhill was sold , all the china , plate , and linen was saved , and is now left to your mother .
Her house will therefore be almost completely fitted up as soon as she takes it ."
" That is a material consideration undoubtedly .
A valuable legacy indeed !
And yet some of the plate would have been a very pleasant addition to our own stock here ."
" Yes ; and the set of breakfast china is twice as handsome as what belongs to this house .
A great deal too handsome , in my opinion , for any place THEY can ever afford to live in .
But , however , so it is .
Your father thought only of THEM .
And I must say this : that you owe no particular gratitude to him , nor attention to his wishes ; for we very well know that if he could , he would have left almost everything in the world to THEM ."
This argument was irresistible .
It gave to his intentions whatever of decision was wanting before ; and he finally resolved , that it would be absolutely unnecessary , if not highly indecorous , to do more for the widow and children of his father , than such kind of neighbourly acts as his own wife pointed out .
CHAPTER 3
Mrs . Dashwood remained at Norland several months ; not from any disinclination to move when the sight of every well known spot ceased to raise the violent emotion which it produced for a while ; for when her spirits began to revive , and her mind became capable of some other exertion than that of heightening its affliction by melancholy remembrances , she was impatient to be gone , and indefatigable in her inquiries for a suitable dwelling in the neighbourhood of Norland ; for to remove far from that beloved spot was impossible .
But she could hear of no situation that at once answered her notions of comfort and ease , and suited the prudence of her eldest daughter , whose steadier judgment rejected several houses as too large for their income , which her mother would have approved .
Mrs . Dashwood had been informed by her husband of the solemn promise on the part of his son in their favour , which gave comfort to his last earthly reflections .
She doubted the sincerity of this assurance no more than he had doubted it himself , and she thought of it for her daughters ' sake with satisfaction , though as for herself she was persuaded that a much smaller provision than 7000L would support her in affluence .
For their brother ' s sake , too , for the sake of his own heart , she rejoiced ; and she reproached herself for being unjust to his merit before , in believing him incapable of generosity .
His attentive behaviour to herself and his sisters convinced her that their welfare was dear to him , and , for a long time , she firmly relied on the liberality of his intentions .
The contempt which she had , very early in their acquaintance , felt for her daughter - in - law , was very much increased by the farther knowledge of her character , which half a year ' s residence in her family afforded ; and perhaps in spite of every consideration of politeness or maternal affection on the side of the former , the two ladies might have found it impossible to have lived together so long , had not a particular circumstance occurred to give still greater eligibility , according to the opinions of Mrs . Dashwood , to her daughters ' continuance at Norland .
This circumstance was a growing attachment between her eldest girl and the brother of Mrs . John Dashwood , a gentleman - like and pleasing young man , who was introduced to their acquaintance soon after his sister ' s establishment at Norland , and who had since spent the greatest part of his time there .
Some mothers might have encouraged the intimacy from motives of interest , for Edward Ferrars was the eldest son of a man who had died very rich ; and some might have repressed it from motives of prudence , for , except a trifling sum , the whole of his fortune depended on the will of his mother .
But Mrs . Dashwood was alike uninfluenced by either consideration .
It was enough for her that he appeared to be amiable , that he loved her daughter , and that Elinor returned the partiality .
It was contrary to every doctrine of her ' s that difference of fortune should keep any couple asunder who were attracted by resemblance of disposition ; and that Elinor ' s merit should not be acknowledged by every one who knew her , was to her comprehension impossible .
Edward Ferrars was not recommended to their good opinion by any peculiar graces of person or address .
He was not handsome , and his manners required intimacy to make them pleasing .
He was too diffident to do justice to himself ; but when his natural shyness was overcome , his behaviour gave every indication of an open , affectionate heart .
His understanding was good , and his education had given it solid improvement .
But he was neither fitted by abilities nor disposition to answer the wishes of his mother and sister , who longed to see him distinguished -- as -- they hardly knew what .
They wanted him to make a fine figure in the world in some manner or other .
His mother wished to interest him in political concerns , to get him into parliament , or to see him connected with some of the great men of the day .
Mrs . John Dashwood wished it likewise ; but in the mean while , till one of these superior blessings could be attained , it would have quieted her ambition to see him driving a barouche .
But Edward had no turn for great men or barouches .
All his wishes centered in domestic comfort and the quiet of private life .
Fortunately he had a younger brother who was more promising .
Edward had been staying several weeks in the house before he engaged much of Mrs . Dashwood ' s attention ; for she was , at that time , in such affliction as rendered her careless of surrounding objects .
She saw only that he was quiet and unobtrusive , and she liked him for it .
He did not disturb the wretchedness of her mind by ill - timed conversation .
She was first called to observe and approve him farther , by a reflection which Elinor chanced one day to make on the difference between him and his sister .
It was a contrast which recommended him most forcibly to her mother .
" It is enough ," said she ; " to say that he is unlike Fanny is enough .
It implies everything amiable .
I love him already ."
" I think you will like him ," said Elinor , " when you know more of him ."
" Like him !"
replied her mother with a smile .
" I feel no sentiment of approbation inferior to love ."
" You may esteem him ."
" I have never yet known what it was to separate esteem and love ."
Mrs . Dashwood now took pains to get acquainted with him .
Her manners were attaching , and soon banished his reserve .
She speedily comprehended all his merits ; the persuasion of his regard for Elinor perhaps assisted her penetration ; but she really felt assured of his worth : and even that quietness of manner , which militated against all her established ideas of what a young man ' s address ought to be , was no longer uninteresting when she knew his heart to be warm and his temper affectionate .
No sooner did she perceive any symptom of love in his behaviour to Elinor , than she considered their serious attachment as certain , and looked forward to their marriage as rapidly approaching .
" In a few months , my dear Marianne ."
said she , " Elinor will , in all probability be settled for life .
We shall miss her ; but SHE will be happy ."
" Oh !
Mamma , how shall we do without her ?"
" My love , it will be scarcely a separation .
We shall live within a few miles of each other , and shall meet every day of our lives .
You will gain a brother , a real , affectionate brother .
I have the highest opinion in the world of Edward ' s heart .
But you look grave , Marianne ; do you disapprove your sister ' s choice ?"
" Perhaps ," said Marianne , " I may consider it with some surprise .
Edward is very amiable , and I love him tenderly .
But yet -- he is not the kind of young man -- there is something wanting -- his figure is not striking ; it has none of that grace which I should expect in the man who could seriously attach my sister .
His eyes want all that spirit , that fire , which at once announce virtue and intelligence .
And besides all this , I am afraid , Mamma , he has no real taste .
Music seems scarcely to attract him , and though he admires Elinor ' s drawings very much , it is not the admiration of a person who can understand their worth .
It is evident , in spite of his frequent attention to her while she draws , that in fact he knows nothing of the matter .
He admires as a lover , not as a connoisseur .
To satisfy me , those characters must be united .
I could not be happy with a man whose taste did not in every point coincide with my own .
He must enter into all my feelings ; the same books , the same music must charm us both .
Oh !
mama , how spiritless , how tame was Edward ' s manner in reading to us last night !
I felt for my sister most severely .
Yet she bore it with so much composure , she seemed scarcely to notice it .
I could hardly keep my seat .
To hear those beautiful lines which have frequently almost driven me wild , pronounced with such impenetrable calmness , such dreadful indifference !"
--
" He would certainly have done more justice to simple and elegant prose .
I thought so at the time ; but you WOULD give him Cowper ."
" Nay , Mamma , if he is not to be animated by Cowper !-- but we must allow for difference of taste .
Elinor has not my feelings , and therefore she may overlook it , and be happy with him .
But it would have broke MY heart , had I loved him , to hear him read with so little sensibility .
Mama , the more I know of the world , the more am I convinced that I shall never see a man whom I can really love .
I require so much !
He must have all Edward ' s virtues , and his person and manners must ornament his goodness with every possible charm ."
" Remember , my love , that you are not seventeen .
It is yet too early in life to despair of such a happiness .
Why should you be less fortunate than your mother ?
In one circumstance only , my Marianne , may your destiny be different from her ' s !"
CHAPTER 4
" What a pity it is , Elinor ," said Marianne , " that Edward should have no taste for drawing ."
" No taste for drawing !"
replied Elinor , " why should you think so ?
He does not draw himself , indeed , but he has great pleasure in seeing the performances of other people , and I assure you he is by no means deficient in natural taste , though he has not had opportunities of improving it .
Had he ever been in the way of learning , I think he would have drawn very well .
He distrusts his own judgment in such matters so much , that he is always unwilling to give his opinion on any picture ; but he has an innate propriety and simplicity of taste , which in general direct him perfectly right ."
Marianne was afraid of offending , and said no more on the subject ; but the kind of approbation which Elinor described as excited in him by the drawings of other people , was very far from that rapturous delight , which , in her opinion , could alone be called taste .
Yet , though smiling within herself at the mistake , she honoured her sister for that blind partiality to Edward which produced it .
" I hope , Marianne ," continued Elinor , " you do not consider him as deficient in general taste .
Indeed , I think I may say that you cannot , for your behaviour to him is perfectly cordial , and if THAT were your opinion , I am sure you could never be civil to him ."
Marianne hardly knew what to say .
She would not wound the feelings of her sister on any account , and yet to say what she did not believe was impossible .
At length she replied :
" Do not be offended , Elinor , if my praise of him is not in every thing equal to your sense of his merits .
I have not had so many opportunities of estimating the minuter propensities of his mind , his inclinations and tastes , as you have ; but I have the highest opinion in the world of his goodness and sense .
I think him every thing that is worthy and amiable ."
" I am sure ," replied Elinor , with a smile , " that his dearest friends could not be dissatisfied with such commendation as that .
I do not perceive how you could express yourself more warmly ."
Marianne was rejoiced to find her sister so easily pleased .
" Of his sense and his goodness ," continued Elinor , " no one can , I think , be in doubt , who has seen him often enough to engage him in unreserved conversation .
The excellence of his understanding and his principles can be concealed only by that shyness which too often keeps him silent .
You know enough of him to do justice to his solid worth .
But of his minuter propensities , as you call them you have from peculiar circumstances been kept more ignorant than myself .
He and I have been at times thrown a good deal together , while you have been wholly engrossed on the most affectionate principle by my mother .
I have seen a great deal of him , have studied his sentiments and heard his opinion on subjects of literature and taste ; and , upon the whole , I venture to pronounce that his mind is well - informed , enjoyment of books exceedingly great , his imagination lively , his observation just and correct , and his taste delicate and pure .
His abilities in every respect improve as much upon acquaintance as his manners and person .
At first sight , his address is certainly not striking ; and his person can hardly be called handsome , till the expression of his eyes , which are uncommonly good , and the general sweetness of his countenance , is perceived .
At present , I know him so well , that I think him really handsome ; or at least , almost so .
What say you , Marianne ?"
" I shall very soon think him handsome , Elinor , if I do not now .
When you tell me to love him as a brother , I shall no more see imperfection in his face , than I now do in his heart ."
Elinor started at this declaration , and was sorry for the warmth she had been betrayed into , in speaking of him .
She felt that Edward stood very high in her opinion .
She believed the regard to be mutual ; but she required greater certainty of it to make Marianne ' s conviction of their attachment agreeable to her .
She knew that what Marianne and her mother conjectured one moment , they believed the next -- that with them , to wish was to hope , and to hope was to expect .
She tried to explain the real state of the case to her sister .
" I do not attempt to deny ," said she , " that I think very highly of him -- that I greatly esteem , that I like him ."
Marianne here burst forth with indignation --
" Esteem him !
Like him !
Cold - hearted Elinor !
Oh !
worse than cold - hearted !
Ashamed of being otherwise .
Use those words again , and I will leave the room this moment ."
Elinor could not help laughing .
" Excuse me ," said she ; " and be assured that I meant no offence to you , by speaking , in so quiet a way , of my own feelings .
Believe them to be stronger than I have declared ; believe them , in short , to be such as his merit , and the suspicion -- the hope of his affection for me may warrant , without imprudence or folly .
But farther than this you must not believe .
I am by no means assured of his regard for me .
There are moments when the extent of it seems doubtful ; and till his sentiments are fully known , you cannot wonder at my wishing to avoid any encouragement of my own partiality , by believing or calling it more than it is .
In my heart I feel little -- scarcely any doubt of his preference .
But there are other points to be considered besides his inclination .
He is very far from being independent .
What his mother really is we cannot know ; but , from Fanny ' s occasional mention of her conduct and opinions , we have never been disposed to think her amiable ; and I am very much mistaken if Edward is not himself aware that there would be many difficulties in his way , if he were to wish to marry a woman who had not either a great fortune or high rank ."
Marianne was astonished to find how much the imagination of her mother and herself had outstripped the truth .
" And you really are not engaged to him !"
said she .
" Yet it certainly soon will happen .
But two advantages will proceed from this delay .
I shall not lose you so soon , and Edward will have greater opportunity of improving that natural taste for your favourite pursuit which must be so indispensably necessary to your future felicity .
Oh !
if he should be so far stimulated by your genius as to learn to draw himself , how delightful it would be !"
Elinor had given her real opinion to her sister .
She could not consider her partiality for Edward in so prosperous a state as Marianne had believed it .
There was , at times , a want of spirits about him which , if it did not denote indifference , spoke of something almost as unpromising .
A doubt of her regard , supposing him to feel it , need not give him more than inquietude .
It would not be likely to produce that dejection of mind which frequently attended him .
A more reasonable cause might be found in the dependent situation which forbade the indulgence of his affection .
She knew that his mother neither behaved to him so as to make his home comfortable at present , nor to give him any assurance that he might form a home for himself , without strictly attending to her views for his aggrandizement .
With such a knowledge as this , it was impossible for Elinor to feel easy on the subject .
She was far from depending on that result of his preference of her , which her mother and sister still considered as certain .
Nay , the longer they were together the more doubtful seemed the nature of his regard ; and sometimes , for a few painful minutes , she believed it to be no more than friendship .
But , whatever might really be its limits , it was enough , when perceived by his sister , to make her uneasy , and at the same time , ( which was still more common ,) to make her uncivil .
She took the first opportunity of affronting her mother - in - law on the occasion , talking to her so expressively of her brother ' s great expectations , of Mrs . Ferrars ' s resolution that both her sons should marry well , and of the danger attending any young woman who attempted to DRAW HIM IN ; that Mrs . Dashwood could neither pretend to be unconscious , nor endeavor to be calm .
She gave her an answer which marked her contempt , and instantly left the room , resolving that , whatever might be the inconvenience or expense of so sudden a removal , her beloved Elinor should not be exposed another week to such insinuations .
In this state of her spirits , a letter was delivered to her from the post , which contained a proposal particularly well timed .
It was the offer of a small house , on very easy terms , belonging to a relation of her own , a gentleman of consequence and property in Devonshire .
The letter was from this gentleman himself , and written in the true spirit of friendly accommodation .
He understood that she was in need of a dwelling ; and though the house he now offered her was merely a cottage , he assured her that everything should be done to it which she might think necessary , if the situation pleased her .
He earnestly pressed her , after giving the particulars of the house and garden , to come with her daughters to Barton Park , the place of his own residence , from whence she might judge , herself , whether Barton Cottage , for the houses were in the same parish , could , by any alteration , be made comfortable to her .
He seemed really anxious to accommodate them and the whole of his letter was written in so friendly a style as could not fail of giving pleasure to his cousin ; more especially at a moment when she was suffering under the cold and unfeeling behaviour of her nearer connections .
She needed no time for deliberation or inquiry .
Her resolution was formed as she read .
The situation of Barton , in a county so far distant from Sussex as Devonshire , which , but a few hours before , would have been a sufficient objection to outweigh every possible advantage belonging to the place , was now its first recommendation .
To quit the neighbourhood of Norland was no longer an evil ; it was an object of desire ; it was a blessing , in comparison of the misery of continuing her daughter - in - law ' s guest ; and to remove for ever from that beloved place would be less painful than to inhabit or visit it while such a woman was its mistress .
She instantly wrote Sir John Middleton her acknowledgment of his kindness , and her acceptance of his proposal ; and then hastened to shew both letters to her daughters , that she might be secure of their approbation before her answer were sent .
Elinor had always thought it would be more prudent for them to settle at some distance from Norland , than immediately amongst their present acquaintance .
On THAT head , therefore , it was not for her to oppose her mother ' s intention of removing into Devonshire .
The house , too , as described by Sir John , was on so simple a scale , and the rent so uncommonly moderate , as to leave her no right of objection on either point ; and , therefore , though it was not a plan which brought any charm to her fancy , though it was a removal from the vicinity of Norland beyond her wishes , she made no attempt to dissuade her mother from sending a letter of acquiescence .
CHAPTER 5
No sooner was her answer dispatched , than Mrs . Dashwood indulged herself in the pleasure of announcing to her son - in - law and his wife that she was provided with a house , and should incommode them no longer than till every thing were ready for her inhabiting it .
They heard her with surprise .
Mrs . John Dashwood said nothing ; but her husband civilly hoped that she would not be settled far from Norland .
She had great satisfaction in replying that she was going into Devonshire .-- Edward turned hastily towards her , on hearing this , and , in a voice of surprise and concern , which required no explanation to her , repeated , " Devonshire !
Are you , indeed , going there ?
So far from hence !
And to what part of it ?"
She explained the situation .
It was within four miles northward of Exeter .
" It is but a cottage ," she continued , " but I hope to see many of my friends in it .
A room or two can easily be added ; and if my friends find no difficulty in travelling so far to see me , I am sure I will find none in accommodating them ."
She concluded with a very kind invitation to Mr . and Mrs . John Dashwood to visit her at Barton ; and to Edward she gave one with still greater affection .
Though her late conversation with her daughter - in - law had made her resolve on remaining at Norland no longer than was unavoidable , it had not produced the smallest effect on her in that point to which it principally tended .
To separate Edward and Elinor was as far from being her object as ever ; and she wished to show Mrs . John Dashwood , by this pointed invitation to her brother , how totally she disregarded her disapprobation of the match .
Mr . John Dashwood told his mother again and again how exceedingly sorry he was that she had taken a house at such a distance from Norland as to prevent his being of any service to her in removing her furniture .
He really felt conscientiously vexed on the occasion ; for the very exertion to which he had limited the performance of his promise to his father was by this arrangement rendered impracticable .-- The furniture was all sent around by water .
It chiefly consisted of household linen , plate , china , and books , with a handsome pianoforte of Marianne ' s .
Mrs . John Dashwood saw the packages depart with a sigh : she could not help feeling it hard that as Mrs . Dashwood ' s income would be so trifling in comparison with their own , she should have any handsome article of furniture .
Mrs . Dashwood took the house for a twelvemonth ; it was ready furnished , and she might have immediate possession .
No difficulty arose on either side in the agreement ; and she waited only for the disposal of her effects at Norland , and to determine her future household , before she set off for the west ; and this , as she was exceedingly rapid in the performance of everything that interested her , was soon done .-- The horses which were left her by her husband had been sold soon after his death , and an opportunity now offering of disposing of her carriage , she agreed to sell that likewise at the earnest advice of her eldest daughter .
For the comfort of her children , had she consulted only her own wishes , she would have kept it ; but the discretion of Elinor prevailed .
HER wisdom too limited the number of their servants to three ; two maids and a man , with whom they were speedily provided from amongst those who had formed their establishment at Norland .
The man and one of the maids were sent off immediately into Devonshire , to prepare the house for their mistress ' s arrival ; for as Lady Middleton was entirely unknown to Mrs . Dashwood , she preferred going directly to the cottage to being a visitor at Barton Park ; and she relied so undoubtingly on Sir John ' s description of the house , as to feel no curiosity to examine it herself till she entered it as her own .
Her eagerness to be gone from Norland was preserved from diminution by the evident satisfaction of her daughter - in - law in the prospect of her removal ; a satisfaction which was but feebly attempted to be concealed under a cold invitation to her to defer her departure .
Now was the time when her son - in - law ' s promise to his father might with particular propriety be fulfilled .
Since he had neglected to do it on first coming to the estate , their quitting his house might be looked on as the most suitable period for its accomplishment .
But Mrs . Dashwood began shortly to give over every hope of the kind , and to be convinced , from the general drift of his discourse , that his assistance extended no farther than their maintenance for six months at Norland .
He so frequently talked of the increasing expenses of housekeeping , and of the perpetual demands upon his purse , which a man of any consequence in the world was beyond calculation exposed to , that he seemed rather to stand in need of more money himself than to have any design of giving money away .
In a very few weeks from the day which brought Sir John Middleton ' s first letter to Norland , every thing was so far settled in their future abode as to enable Mrs . Dashwood and her daughters to begin their journey .
Many were the tears shed by them in their last adieus to a place so much beloved .
" Dear , dear Norland !"
said Marianne , as she wandered alone before the house , on the last evening of their being there ; " when shall I cease to regret you !-- when learn to feel a home elsewhere !-- Oh !
happy house , could you know what I suffer in now viewing you from this spot , from whence perhaps I may view you no more !-- And you , ye well - known trees !-- but you will continue the same .-- No leaf will decay because we are removed , nor any branch become motionless although we can observe you no longer !-- No ; you will continue the same ; unconscious of the pleasure or the regret you occasion , and insensible of any change in those who walk under your shade !-- But who will remain to enjoy you ?"
CHAPTER 6
The first part of their journey was performed in too melancholy a disposition to be otherwise than tedious and unpleasant .
But as they drew towards the end of it , their interest in the appearance of a country which they were to inhabit overcame their dejection , and a view of Barton Valley as they entered it gave them cheerfulness .
It was a pleasant fertile spot , well wooded , and rich in pasture .
After winding along it for more than a mile , they reached their own house .
A small green court was the whole of its demesne in front ; and a neat wicket gate admitted them into it .
As a house , Barton Cottage , though small , was comfortable and compact ; but as a cottage it was defective , for the building was regular , the roof was tiled , the window shutters were not painted green , nor were the walls covered with honeysuckles .
A narrow passage led directly through the house into the garden behind .
On each side of the entrance was a sitting room , about sixteen feet square ; and beyond them were the offices and the stairs .
Four bed - rooms and two garrets formed the rest of the house .
It had not been built many years and was in good repair .
In comparison of Norland , it was poor and small indeed !-- but the tears which recollection called forth as they entered the house were soon dried away .
They were cheered by the joy of the servants on their arrival , and each for the sake of the others resolved to appear happy .
It was very early in September ; the season was fine , and from first seeing the place under the advantage of good weather , they received an impression in its favour which was of material service in recommending it to their lasting approbation .
The situation of the house was good .
High hills rose immediately behind , and at no great distance on each side ; some of which were open downs , the others cultivated and woody .
The village of Barton was chiefly on one of these hills , and formed a pleasant view from the cottage windows .
The prospect in front was more extensive ; it commanded the whole of the valley , and reached into the country beyond .
The hills which surrounded the cottage terminated the valley in that direction ; under another name , and in another course , it branched out again between two of the steepest of them .
With the size and furniture of the house Mrs . Dashwood was upon the whole well satisfied ; for though her former style of life rendered many additions to the latter indispensable , yet to add and improve was a delight to her ; and she had at this time ready money enough to supply all that was wanted of greater elegance to the apartments .
" As for the house itself , to be sure ," said she , " it is too small for our family , but we will make ourselves tolerably comfortable for the present , as it is too late in the year for improvements .
Perhaps in the spring , if I have plenty of money , as I dare say I shall , we may think about building .
These parlors are both too small for such parties of our friends as I hope to see often collected here ; and I have some thoughts of throwing the passage into one of them with perhaps a part of the other , and so leave the remainder of that other for an entrance ; this , with a new drawing room which may be easily added , and a bed - chamber and garret above , will make it a very snug little cottage .
I could wish the stairs were handsome .
But one must not expect every thing ; though I suppose it would be no difficult matter to widen them .
I shall see how much I am before - hand with the world in the spring , and we will plan our improvements accordingly ."
In the mean time , till all these alterations could be made from the savings of an income of five hundred a - year by a woman who never saved in her life , they were wise enough to be contented with the house as it was ; and each of them was busy in arranging their particular concerns , and endeavoring , by placing around them books and other possessions , to form themselves a home .
Marianne ' s pianoforte was unpacked and properly disposed of ; and Elinor ' s drawings were affixed to the walls of their sitting room .
In such employments as these they were interrupted soon after breakfast the next day by the entrance of their landlord , who called to welcome them to Barton , and to offer them every accommodation from his own house and garden in which theirs might at present be deficient .
Sir John Middleton was a good looking man about forty .
He had formerly visited at Stanhill , but it was too long for his young cousins to remember him .
His countenance was thoroughly good - humoured ; and his manners were as friendly as the style of his letter .
Their arrival seemed to afford him real satisfaction , and their comfort to be an object of real solicitude to him .
He said much of his earnest desire of their living in the most sociable terms with his family , and pressed them so cordially to dine at Barton Park every day till they were better settled at home , that , though his entreaties were carried to a point of perseverance beyond civility , they could not give offence .
His kindness was not confined to words ; for within an hour after he left them , a large basket full of garden stuff and fruit arrived from the park , which was followed before the end of the day by a present of game .
He insisted , moreover , on conveying all their letters to and from the post for them , and would not be denied the satisfaction of sending them his newspaper every day .
Lady Middleton had sent a very civil message by him , denoting her intention of waiting on Mrs . Dashwood as soon as she could be assured that her visit would be no inconvenience ; and as this message was answered by an invitation equally polite , her ladyship was introduced to them the next day .
They were , of course , very anxious to see a person on whom so much of their comfort at Barton must depend ; and the elegance of her appearance was favourable to their wishes .
Lady Middleton was not more than six or seven and twenty ; her face was handsome , her figure tall and striking , and her address graceful .
Her manners had all the elegance which her husband ' s wanted .
But they would have been improved by some share of his frankness and warmth ; and her visit was long enough to detract something from their first admiration , by shewing that , though perfectly well - bred , she was reserved , cold , and had nothing to say for herself beyond the most common - place inquiry or remark .
Conversation however was not wanted , for Sir John was very chatty , and Lady Middleton had taken the wise precaution of bringing with her their eldest child , a fine little boy about six years old , by which means there was one subject always to be recurred to by the ladies in case of extremity , for they had to enquire his name and age , admire his beauty , and ask him questions which his mother answered for him , while he hung about her and held down his head , to the great surprise of her ladyship , who wondered at his being so shy before company , as he could make noise enough at home .
On every formal visit a child ought to be of the party , by way of provision for discourse .
In the present case it took up ten minutes to determine whether the boy were most like his father or mother , and in what particular he resembled either , for of course every body differed , and every body was astonished at the opinion of the others .
An opportunity was soon to be given to the Dashwoods of debating on the rest of the children , as Sir John would not leave the house without securing their promise of dining at the park the next day .
CHAPTER 7
Barton Park was about half a mile from the cottage .
The ladies had passed near it in their way along the valley , but it was screened from their view at home by the projection of a hill .
The house was large and handsome ; and the Middletons lived in a style of equal hospitality and elegance .
The former was for Sir John ' s gratification , the latter for that of his lady .
They were scarcely ever without some friends staying with them in the house , and they kept more company of every kind than any other family in the neighbourhood .
It was necessary to the happiness of both ; for however dissimilar in temper and outward behaviour , they strongly resembled each other in that total want of talent and taste which confined their employments , unconnected with such as society produced , within a very narrow compass .
Sir John was a sportsman , Lady Middleton a mother .
He hunted and shot , and she humoured her children ; and these were their only resources .
Lady Middleton had the advantage of being able to spoil her children all the year round , while Sir John ' s independent employments were in existence only half the time .
Continual engagements at home and abroad , however , supplied all the deficiencies of nature and education ; supported the good spirits of Sir John , and gave exercise to the good breeding of his wife .
Lady Middleton piqued herself upon the elegance of her table , and of all her domestic arrangements ; and from this kind of vanity was her greatest enjoyment in any of their parties .
But Sir John ' s satisfaction in society was much more real ; he delighted in collecting about him more young people than his house would hold , and the noisier they were the better was he pleased .
He was a blessing to all the juvenile part of the neighbourhood , for in summer he was for ever forming parties to eat cold ham and chicken out of doors , and in winter his private balls were numerous enough for any young lady who was not suffering under the unsatiable appetite of fifteen .
The arrival of a new family in the country was always a matter of joy to him , and in every point of view he was charmed with the inhabitants he had now procured for his cottage at Barton .
The Miss Dashwoods were young , pretty , and unaffected .
It was enough to secure his good opinion ; for to be unaffected was all that a pretty girl could want to make her mind as captivating as her person .
The friendliness of his disposition made him happy in accommodating those , whose situation might be considered , in comparison with the past , as unfortunate .
In showing kindness to his cousins therefore he had the real satisfaction of a good heart ; and in settling a family of females only in his cottage , he had all the satisfaction of a sportsman ; for a sportsman , though he esteems only those of his sex who are sportsmen likewise , is not often desirous of encouraging their taste by admitting them to a residence within his own manor .
Mrs . Dashwood and her daughters were met at the door of the house by Sir John , who welcomed them to Barton Park with unaffected sincerity ; and as he attended them to the drawing room repeated to the young ladies the concern which the same subject had drawn from him the day before , at being unable to get any smart young men to meet them .
They would see , he said , only one gentleman there besides himself ; a particular friend who was staying at the park , but who was neither very young nor very gay .
He hoped they would all excuse the smallness of the party , and could assure them it should never happen so again .
He had been to several families that morning in hopes of procuring some addition to their number , but it was moonlight and every body was full of engagements .
Luckily Lady Middleton ' s mother had arrived at Barton within the last hour , and as she was a very cheerful agreeable woman , he hoped the young ladies would not find it so very dull as they might imagine .
The young ladies , as well as their mother , were perfectly satisfied with having two entire strangers of the party , and wished for no more .
Mrs . Jennings , Lady Middleton ' s mother , was a good - humoured , merry , fat , elderly woman , who talked a great deal , seemed very happy , and rather vulgar .
She was full of jokes and laughter , and before dinner was over had said many witty things on the subject of lovers and husbands ; hoped they had not left their hearts behind them in Sussex , and pretended to see them blush whether they did or not .
Marianne was vexed at it for her sister ' s sake , and turned her eyes towards Elinor to see how she bore these attacks , with an earnestness which gave Elinor far more pain than could arise from such common - place raillery as Mrs . Jennings ' s .
Colonel Brandon , the friend of Sir John , seemed no more adapted by resemblance of manner to be his friend , than Lady Middleton was to be his wife , or Mrs . Jennings to be Lady Middleton ' s mother .
He was silent and grave .
His appearance however was not unpleasing , in spite of his being in the opinion of Marianne and Margaret an absolute old bachelor , for he was on the wrong side of five and thirty ; but though his face was not handsome , his countenance was sensible , and his address was particularly gentlemanlike .
There was nothing in any of the party which could recommend them as companions to the Dashwoods ; but the cold insipidity of Lady Middleton was so particularly repulsive , that in comparison of it the gravity of Colonel Brandon , and even the boisterous mirth of Sir John and his mother - in - law was interesting .
Lady Middleton seemed to be roused to enjoyment only by the entrance of her four noisy children after dinner , who pulled her about , tore her clothes , and put an end to every kind of discourse except what related to themselves .
In the evening , as Marianne was discovered to be musical , she was invited to play .
The instrument was unlocked , every body prepared to be charmed , and Marianne , who sang very well , at their request went through the chief of the songs which Lady Middleton had brought into the family on her marriage , and which perhaps had lain ever since in the same position on the pianoforte , for her ladyship had celebrated that event by giving up music , although by her mother ' s account , she had played extremely well , and by her own was very fond of it .
Marianne ' s performance was highly applauded .
Sir John was loud in his admiration at the end of every song , and as loud in his conversation with the others while every song lasted .
Lady Middleton frequently called him to order , wondered how any one ' s attention could be diverted from music for a moment , and asked Marianne to sing a particular song which Marianne had just finished .
Colonel Brandon alone , of all the party , heard her without being in raptures .
He paid her only the compliment of attention ; and she felt a respect for him on the occasion , which the others had reasonably forfeited by their shameless want of taste .
His pleasure in music , though it amounted not to that ecstatic delight which alone could sympathize with her own , was estimable when contrasted against the horrible insensibility of the others ; and she was reasonable enough to allow that a man of five and thirty might well have outlived all acuteness of feeling and every exquisite power of enjoyment .
She was perfectly disposed to make every allowance for the colonel ' s advanced state of life which humanity required .
CHAPTER 8
Mrs . Jennings was a widow with an ample jointure .
She had only two daughters , both of whom she had lived to see respectably married , and she had now therefore nothing to do but to marry all the rest of the world .
In the promotion of this object she was zealously active , as far as her ability reached ; and missed no opportunity of projecting weddings among all the young people of her acquaintance .
She was remarkably quick in the discovery of attachments , and had enjoyed the advantage of raising the blushes and the vanity of many a young lady by insinuations of her power over such a young man ; and this kind of discernment enabled her soon after her arrival at Barton decisively to pronounce that Colonel Brandon was very much in love with Marianne Dashwood .
She rather suspected it to be so , on the very first evening of their being together , from his listening so attentively while she sang to them ; and when the visit was returned by the Middletons ' dining at the cottage , the fact was ascertained by his listening to her again .
It must be so .
She was perfectly convinced of it .
It would be an excellent match , for HE was rich , and SHE was handsome .
Mrs . Jennings had been anxious to see Colonel Brandon well married , ever since her connection with Sir John first brought him to her knowledge ; and she was always anxious to get a good husband for every pretty girl .
The immediate advantage to herself was by no means inconsiderable , for it supplied her with endless jokes against them both .
At the park she laughed at the colonel , and in the cottage at Marianne .
To the former her raillery was probably , as far as it regarded only himself , perfectly indifferent ; but to the latter it was at first incomprehensible ; and when its object was understood , she hardly knew whether most to laugh at its absurdity , or censure its impertinence , for she considered it as an unfeeling reflection on the colonel ' s advanced years , and on his forlorn condition as an old bachelor .
Mrs . Dashwood , who could not think a man five years younger than herself , so exceedingly ancient as he appeared to the youthful fancy of her daughter , ventured to clear Mrs . Jennings from the probability of wishing to throw ridicule on his age .
" But at least , Mamma , you cannot deny the absurdity of the accusation , though you may not think it intentionally ill - natured .
Colonel Brandon is certainly younger than Mrs . Jennings , but he is old enough to be MY father ; and if he were ever animated enough to be in love , must have long outlived every sensation of the kind .
It is too ridiculous !
When is a man to be safe from such wit , if age and infirmity will not protect him ?"
" Infirmity !"
said Elinor , " do you call Colonel Brandon infirm ?
I can easily suppose that his age may appear much greater to you than to my mother ; but you can hardly deceive yourself as to his having the use of his limbs !"
" Did not you hear him complain of the rheumatism ?
and is not that the commonest infirmity of declining life ?"
" My dearest child ," said her mother , laughing , " at this rate you must be in continual terror of MY decay ; and it must seem to you a miracle that my life has been extended to the advanced age of forty ."
" Mamma , you are not doing me justice .
I know very well that Colonel Brandon is not old enough to make his friends yet apprehensive of losing him in the course of nature .
He may live twenty years longer .
But thirty - five has nothing to do with matrimony ."
" Perhaps ," said Elinor , " thirty - five and seventeen had better not have any thing to do with matrimony together .
But if there should by any chance happen to be a woman who is single at seven and twenty , I should not think Colonel Brandon ' s being thirty - five any objection to his marrying HER ."
" A woman of seven and twenty ," said Marianne , after pausing a moment , " can never hope to feel or inspire affection again , and if her home be uncomfortable , or her fortune small , I can suppose that she might bring herself to submit to the offices of a nurse , for the sake of the provision and security of a wife .
In his marrying such a woman therefore there would be nothing unsuitable .
It would be a compact of convenience , and the world would be satisfied .
In my eyes it would be no marriage at all , but that would be nothing .
To me it would seem only a commercial exchange , in which each wished to be benefited at the expense of the other ."
" It would be impossible , I know ," replied Elinor , " to convince you that a woman of seven and twenty could feel for a man of thirty - five anything near enough to love , to make him a desirable companion to her .
But I must object to your dooming Colonel Brandon and his wife to the constant confinement of a sick chamber , merely because he chanced to complain yesterday ( a very cold damp day ) of a slight rheumatic feel in one of his shoulders ."
" But he talked of flannel waistcoats ," said Marianne ; " and with me a flannel waistcoat is invariably connected with aches , cramps , rheumatisms , and every species of ailment that can afflict the old and the feeble ."
" Had he been only in a violent fever , you would not have despised him half so much .
Confess , Marianne , is not there something interesting to you in the flushed cheek , hollow eye , and quick pulse of a fever ?"
Soon after this , upon Elinor ' s leaving the room , " Mamma ," said Marianne , " I have an alarm on the subject of illness which I cannot conceal from you .
I am sure Edward Ferrars is not well .
We have now been here almost a fortnight , and yet he does not come .
Nothing but real indisposition could occasion this extraordinary delay .
What else can detain him at Norland ?"
" Had you any idea of his coming so soon ?"
said Mrs . Dashwood .
" I had none .
On the contrary , if I have felt any anxiety at all on the subject , it has been in recollecting that he sometimes showed a want of pleasure and readiness in accepting my invitation , when I talked of his coming to Barton .
Does Elinor expect him already ?"
" I have never mentioned it to her , but of course she must ."
" I rather think you are mistaken , for when I was talking to her yesterday of getting a new grate for the spare bedchamber , she observed that there was no immediate hurry for it , as it was not likely that the room would be wanted for some time ."
" How strange this is !
what can be the meaning of it !
But the whole of their behaviour to each other has been unaccountable !
How cold , how composed were their last adieus !
How languid their conversation the last evening of their being together !
In Edward ' s farewell there was no distinction between Elinor and me : it was the good wishes of an affectionate brother to both .
Twice did I leave them purposely together in the course of the last morning , and each time did he most unaccountably follow me out of the room .
And Elinor , in quitting Norland and Edward , cried not as I did .
Even now her self - command is invariable .
When is she dejected or melancholy ?
When does she try to avoid society , or appear restless and dissatisfied in it ?"
CHAPTER 9
The Dashwoods were now settled at Barton with tolerable comfort to themselves .
The house and the garden , with all the objects surrounding them , were now become familiar , and the ordinary pursuits which had given to Norland half its charms were engaged in again with far greater enjoyment than Norland had been able to afford , since the loss of their father .
Sir John Middleton , who called on them every day for the first fortnight , and who was not in the habit of seeing much occupation at home , could not conceal his amazement on finding them always employed .
Their visitors , except those from Barton Park , were not many ; for , in spite of Sir John ' s urgent entreaties that they would mix more in the neighbourhood , and repeated assurances of his carriage being always at their service , the independence of Mrs . Dashwood ' s spirit overcame the wish of society for her children ; and she was resolute in declining to visit any family beyond the distance of a walk .
There were but few who could be so classed ; and it was not all of them that were attainable .
About a mile and a half from the cottage , along the narrow winding valley of Allenham , which issued from that of Barton , as formerly described , the girls had , in one of their earliest walks , discovered an ancient respectable looking mansion which , by reminding them a little of Norland , interested their imagination and made them wish to be better acquainted with it .
But they learnt , on enquiry , that its possessor , an elderly lady of very good character , was unfortunately too infirm to mix with the world , and never stirred from home .
The whole country about them abounded in beautiful walks .
The high downs which invited them from almost every window of the cottage to seek the exquisite enjoyment of air on their summits , were a happy alternative when the dirt of the valleys beneath shut up their superior beauties ; and towards one of these hills did Marianne and Margaret one memorable morning direct their steps , attracted by the partial sunshine of a showery sky , and unable longer to bear the confinement which the settled rain of the two preceding days had occasioned .
The weather was not tempting enough to draw the two others from their pencil and their book , in spite of Marianne ' s declaration that the day would be lastingly fair , and that every threatening cloud would be drawn off from their hills ; and the two girls set off together .
They gaily ascended the downs , rejoicing in their own penetration at every glimpse of blue sky ; and when they caught in their faces the animating gales of a high south - westerly wind , they pitied the fears which had prevented their mother and Elinor from sharing such delightful sensations .
" Is there a felicity in the world ," said Marianne , " superior to this ?-- Margaret , we will walk here at least two hours ."
Margaret agreed , and they pursued their way against the wind , resisting it with laughing delight for about twenty minutes longer , when suddenly the clouds united over their heads , and a driving rain set full in their face .-- Chagrined and surprised , they were obliged , though unwillingly , to turn back , for no shelter was nearer than their own house .
One consolation however remained for them , to which the exigence of the moment gave more than usual propriety ; it was that of running with all possible speed down the steep side of the hill which led immediately to their garden gate .
They set off .
Marianne had at first the advantage , but a false step brought her suddenly to the ground ; and Margaret , unable to stop herself to assist her , was involuntarily hurried along , and reached the bottom in safety .
A gentleman carrying a gun , with two pointers playing round him , was passing up the hill and within a few yards of Marianne , when her accident happened .
He put down his gun and ran to her assistance .
She had raised herself from the ground , but her foot had been twisted in her fall , and she was scarcely able to stand .
The gentleman offered his services ; and perceiving that her modesty declined what her situation rendered necessary , took her up in his arms without farther delay , and carried her down the hill .
Then passing through the garden , the gate of which had been left open by Margaret , he bore her directly into the house , whither Margaret was just arrived , and quitted not his hold till he had seated her in a chair in the parlour .
Elinor and her mother rose up in amazement at their entrance , and while the eyes of both were fixed on him with an evident wonder and a secret admiration which equally sprung from his appearance , he apologized for his intrusion by relating its cause , in a manner so frank and so graceful that his person , which was uncommonly handsome , received additional charms from his voice and expression .
Had he been even old , ugly , and vulgar , the gratitude and kindness of Mrs . Dashwood would have been secured by any act of attention to her child ; but the influence of youth , beauty , and elegance , gave an interest to the action which came home to her feelings .
She thanked him again and again ; and , with a sweetness of address which always attended her , invited him to be seated .
But this he declined , as he was dirty and wet .
Mrs . Dashwood then begged to know to whom she was obliged .
His name , he replied , was Willoughby , and his present home was at Allenham , from whence he hoped she would allow him the honour of calling tomorrow to enquire after Miss Dashwood .
The honour was readily granted , and he then departed , to make himself still more interesting , in the midst of a heavy rain .
His manly beauty and more than common gracefulness were instantly the theme of general admiration , and the laugh which his gallantry raised against Marianne received particular spirit from his exterior attractions .-- Marianne herself had seen less of his person that the rest , for the confusion which crimsoned over her face , on his lifting her up , had robbed her of the power of regarding him after their entering the house .
But she had seen enough of him to join in all the admiration of the others , and with an energy which always adorned her praise .
His person and air were equal to what her fancy had ever drawn for the hero of a favourite story ; and in his carrying her into the house with so little previous formality , there was a rapidity of thought which particularly recommended the action to her .
Every circumstance belonging to him was interesting .
His name was good , his residence was in their favourite village , and she soon found out that of all manly dresses a shooting - jacket was the most becoming .
Her imagination was busy , her reflections were pleasant , and the pain of a sprained ankle was disregarded .
Sir John called on them as soon as the next interval of fair weather that morning allowed him to get out of doors ; and Marianne ' s accident being related to him , he was eagerly asked whether he knew any gentleman of the name of Willoughby at Allenham .
" Willoughby !"
cried Sir John ; " what , is HE in the country ?
That is good news however ; I will ride over tomorrow , and ask him to dinner on Thursday ."
" You know him then ," said Mrs . Dashwood .
" Know him !
to be sure I do .
Why , he is down here every year ."
" And what sort of a young man is he ?"
" As good a kind of fellow as ever lived , I assure you .
A very decent shot , and there is not a bolder rider in England ."
" And is that all you can say for him ?"
cried Marianne , indignantly .
" But what are his manners on more intimate acquaintance ?
What his pursuits , his talents , and genius ?"
Sir John was rather puzzled .
" Upon my soul ," said he , " I do not know much about him as to all THAT .
But he is a pleasant , good humoured fellow , and has got the nicest little black bitch of a pointer I ever saw .
Was she out with him today ?"
But Marianne could no more satisfy him as to the colour of Mr . Willoughby ' s pointer , than he could describe to her the shades of his mind .
" But who is he ?"
said Elinor .
" Where does he come from ?
Has he a house at Allenham ?"
On this point Sir John could give more certain intelligence ; and he told them that Mr . Willoughby had no property of his own in the country ; that he resided there only while he was visiting the old lady at Allenham Court , to whom he was related , and whose possessions he was to inherit ; adding , " Yes , yes , he is very well worth catching I can tell you , Miss Dashwood ; he has a pretty little estate of his own in Somersetshire besides ; and if I were you , I would not give him up to my younger sister , in spite of all this tumbling down hills .
Miss Marianne must not expect to have all the men to herself .
Brandon will be jealous , if she does not take care ."
" I do not believe ," said Mrs . Dashwood , with a good humoured smile , " that Mr . Willoughby will be incommoded by the attempts of either of MY daughters towards what you call CATCHING him .
It is not an employment to which they have been brought up .
Men are very safe with us , let them be ever so rich .
I am glad to find , however , from what you say , that he is a respectable young man , and one whose acquaintance will not be ineligible ."
" He is as good a sort of fellow , I believe , as ever lived ," repeated Sir John .
" I remember last Christmas at a little hop at the park , he danced from eight o ' clock till four , without once sitting down ."
" Did he indeed ?"
cried Marianne with sparkling eyes , " and with elegance , with spirit ?"
" Yes ; and he was up again at eight to ride to covert ."
" That is what I like ; that is what a young man ought to be .
Whatever be his pursuits , his eagerness in them should know no moderation , and leave him no sense of fatigue ."
" Aye , aye , I see how it will be ," said Sir John , " I see how it will be .
You will be setting your cap at him now , and never think of poor Brandon ."
" That is an expression , Sir John ," said Marianne , warmly , " which I particularly dislike .
I abhor every common - place phrase by which wit is intended ; and ' setting one ' s cap at a man ,' or ' making a conquest ,' are the most odious of all .
Their tendency is gross and illiberal ; and if their construction could ever be deemed clever , time has long ago destroyed all its ingenuity ."
Sir John did not much understand this reproof ; but he laughed as heartily as if he did , and then replied ,
" Ay , you will make conquests enough , I dare say , one way or other .
Poor Brandon !
he is quite smitten already , and he is very well worth setting your cap at , I can tell you , in spite of all this tumbling about and spraining of ankles ."
CHAPTER 10
Marianne ' s preserver , as Margaret , with more elegance than precision , styled Willoughby , called at the cottage early the next morning to make his personal enquiries .
He was received by Mrs . Dashwood with more than politeness ; with a kindness which Sir John ' s account of him and her own gratitude prompted ; and every thing that passed during the visit tended to assure him of the sense , elegance , mutual affection , and domestic comfort of the family to whom accident had now introduced him .
Of their personal charms he had not required a second interview to be convinced .
Miss Dashwood had a delicate complexion , regular features , and a remarkably pretty figure .
Marianne was still handsomer .
Her form , though not so correct as her sister ' s , in having the advantage of height , was more striking ; and her face was so lovely , that when in the common cant of praise , she was called a beautiful girl , truth was less violently outraged than usually happens .
Her skin was very brown , but , from its transparency , her complexion was uncommonly brilliant ; her features were all good ; her smile was sweet and attractive ; and in her eyes , which were very dark , there was a life , a spirit , an eagerness , which could hardily be seen without delight .
From Willoughby their expression was at first held back , by the embarrassment which the remembrance of his assistance created .
But when this passed away , when her spirits became collected , when she saw that to the perfect good - breeding of the gentleman , he united frankness and vivacity , and above all , when she heard him declare , that of music and dancing he was passionately fond , she gave him such a look of approbation as secured the largest share of his discourse to herself for the rest of his stay .
It was only necessary to mention any favourite amusement to engage her to talk .
She could not be silent when such points were introduced , and she had neither shyness nor reserve in their discussion .
They speedily discovered that their enjoyment of dancing and music was mutual , and that it arose from a general conformity of judgment in all that related to either .
Encouraged by this to a further examination of his opinions , she proceeded to question him on the subject of books ; her favourite authors were brought forward and dwelt upon with so rapturous a delight , that any young man of five and twenty must have been insensible indeed , not to become an immediate convert to the excellence of such works , however disregarded before .
Their taste was strikingly alike .
The same books , the same passages were idolized by each -- or if any difference appeared , any objection arose , it lasted no longer than till the force of her arguments and the brightness of her eyes could be displayed .
He acquiesced in all her decisions , caught all her enthusiasm ; and long before his visit concluded , they conversed with the familiarity of a long - established acquaintance .
" Well , Marianne ," said Elinor , as soon as he had left them , " for ONE morning I think you have done pretty well .
You have already ascertained Mr . Willoughby ' s opinion in almost every matter of importance .
You know what he thinks of Cowper and Scott ; you are certain of his estimating their beauties as he ought , and you have received every assurance of his admiring Pope no more than is proper .
But how is your acquaintance to be long supported , under such extraordinary despatch of every subject for discourse ?
You will soon have exhausted each favourite topic .
Another meeting will suffice to explain his sentiments on picturesque beauty , and second marriages , and then you can have nothing farther to ask ."
--
" Elinor ," cried Marianne , " is this fair ?
is this just ?
are my ideas so scanty ?
But I see what you mean .
I have been too much at my ease , too happy , too frank .
I have erred against every common - place notion of decorum ; I have been open and sincere where I ought to have been reserved , spiritless , dull , and deceitful -- had I talked only of the weather and the roads , and had I spoken only once in ten minutes , this reproach would have been spared ."
" My love ," said her mother , " you must not be offended with Elinor -- she was only in jest .
I should scold her myself , if she were capable of wishing to check the delight of your conversation with our new friend ."
-- Marianne was softened in a moment .
Willoughby , on his side , gave every proof of his pleasure in their acquaintance , which an evident wish of improving it could offer .
He came to them every day .
To enquire after Marianne was at first his excuse ; but the encouragement of his reception , to which every day gave greater kindness , made such an excuse unnecessary before it had ceased to be possible , by Marianne ' s perfect recovery .
She was confined for some days to the house ; but never had any confinement been less irksome .
Willoughby was a young man of good abilities , quick imagination , lively spirits , and open , affectionate manners .
He was exactly formed to engage Marianne ' s heart , for with all this , he joined not only a captivating person , but a natural ardour of mind which was now roused and increased by the example of her own , and which recommended him to her affection beyond every thing else .
His society became gradually her most exquisite enjoyment .
They read , they talked , they sang together ; his musical talents were considerable ; and he read with all the sensibility and spirit which Edward had unfortunately wanted .
In Mrs . Dashwood ' s estimation he was as faultless as in Marianne ' s ; and Elinor saw nothing to censure in him but a propensity , in which he strongly resembled and peculiarly delighted her sister , of saying too much what he thought on every occasion , without attention to persons or circumstances .
In hastily forming and giving his opinion of other people , in sacrificing general politeness to the enjoyment of undivided attention where his heart was engaged , and in slighting too easily the forms of worldly propriety , he displayed a want of caution which Elinor could not approve , in spite of all that he and Marianne could say in its support .
Marianne began now to perceive that the desperation which had seized her at sixteen and a half , of ever seeing a man who could satisfy her ideas of perfection , had been rash and unjustifiable .
Willoughby was all that her fancy had delineated in that unhappy hour and in every brighter period , as capable of attaching her ; and his behaviour declared his wishes to be in that respect as earnest , as his abilities were strong .
Her mother too , in whose mind not one speculative thought of their marriage had been raised , by his prospect of riches , was led before the end of a week to hope and expect it ; and secretly to congratulate herself on having gained two such sons - in - law as Edward and Willoughby .
Colonel Brandon ' s partiality for Marianne , which had so early been discovered by his friends , now first became perceptible to Elinor , when it ceased to be noticed by them .
Their attention and wit were drawn off to his more fortunate rival ; and the raillery which the other had incurred before any partiality arose , was removed when his feelings began really to call for the ridicule so justly annexed to sensibility .
Elinor was obliged , though unwillingly , to believe that the sentiments which Mrs . Jennings had assigned him for her own satisfaction , were now actually excited by her sister ; and that however a general resemblance of disposition between the parties might forward the affection of Mr . Willoughby , an equally striking opposition of character was no hindrance to the regard of Colonel Brandon .
She saw it with concern ; for what could a silent man of five and thirty hope , when opposed to a very lively one of five and twenty ?
and as she could not even wish him successful , she heartily wished him indifferent .
She liked him -- in spite of his gravity and reserve , she beheld in him an object of interest .
His manners , though serious , were mild ; and his reserve appeared rather the result of some oppression of spirits than of any natural gloominess of temper .
Sir John had dropped hints of past injuries and disappointments , which justified her belief of his being an unfortunate man , and she regarded him with respect and compassion .
Perhaps she pitied and esteemed him the more because he was slighted by Willoughby and Marianne , who , prejudiced against him for being neither lively nor young , seemed resolved to undervalue his merits .
" Brandon is just the kind of man ," said Willoughby one day , when they were talking of him together , " whom every body speaks well of , and nobody cares about ; whom all are delighted to see , and nobody remembers to talk to ."
" That is exactly what I think of him ," cried Marianne .
" Do not boast of it , however ," said Elinor , " for it is injustice in both of you .
He is highly esteemed by all the family at the park , and I never see him myself without taking pains to converse with him ."
" That he is patronised by YOU ," replied Willoughby , " is certainly in his favour ; but as for the esteem of the others , it is a reproach in itself .
Who would submit to the indignity of being approved by such a woman as Lady Middleton and Mrs . Jennings , that could command the indifference of any body else ?"
" But perhaps the abuse of such people as yourself and Marianne will make amends for the regard of Lady Middleton and her mother .
If their praise is censure , your censure may be praise , for they are not more undiscerning , than you are prejudiced and unjust ."
" In defence of your protege you can even be saucy ."
" My protege , as you call him , is a sensible man ; and sense will always have attractions for me .
Yes , Marianne , even in a man between thirty and forty .
He has seen a great deal of the world ; has been abroad , has read , and has a thinking mind .
I have found him capable of giving me much information on various subjects ; and he has always answered my inquiries with readiness of good - breeding and good nature ."
" That is to say ," cried Marianne contemptuously , " he has told you , that in the East Indies the climate is hot , and the mosquitoes are troublesome ."
" He WOULD have told me so , I doubt not , had I made any such inquiries , but they happened to be points on which I had been previously informed ."
" Perhaps ," said Willoughby , " his observations may have extended to the existence of nabobs , gold mohrs , and palanquins ."
" I may venture to say that HIS observations have stretched much further than your candour .
But why should you dislike him ?"
" I do not dislike him .
I consider him , on the contrary , as a very respectable man , who has every body ' s good word , and nobody ' s notice ; who , has more money than he can spend , more time than he knows how to employ , and two new coats every year ."
" Add to which ," cried Marianne , " that he has neither genius , taste , nor spirit .
That his understanding has no brilliancy , his feelings no ardour , and his voice no expression ."
" You decide on his imperfections so much in the mass ," replied Elinor , " and so much on the strength of your own imagination , that the commendation I am able to give of him is comparatively cold and insipid .
I can only pronounce him to be a sensible man , well - bred , well - informed , of gentle address , and , I believe , possessing an amiable heart ."
" Miss Dashwood ," cried Willoughby , " you are now using me unkindly .
You are endeavouring to disarm me by reason , and to convince me against my will .
But it will not do .
You shall find me as stubborn as you can be artful .
I have three unanswerable reasons for disliking Colonel Brandon ; he threatened me with rain when I wanted it to be fine ; he has found fault with the hanging of my curricle , and I cannot persuade him to buy my brown mare .
If it will be any satisfaction to you , however , to be told , that I believe his character to be in other respects irreproachable , I am ready to confess it .
And in return for an acknowledgment , which must give me some pain , you cannot deny me the privilege of disliking him as much as ever ."
CHAPTER 11
Little had Mrs . Dashwood or her daughters imagined when they first came into Devonshire , that so many engagements would arise to occupy their time as shortly presented themselves , or that they should have such frequent invitations and such constant visitors as to leave them little leisure for serious employment .
Yet such was the case .
When Marianne was recovered , the schemes of amusement at home and abroad , which Sir John had been previously forming , were put into execution .
The private balls at the park then began ; and parties on the water were made and accomplished as often as a showery October would allow .
In every meeting of the kind Willoughby was included ; and the ease and familiarity which naturally attended these parties were exactly calculated to give increasing intimacy to his acquaintance with the Dashwoods , to afford him opportunity of witnessing the excellencies of Marianne , of marking his animated admiration of her , and of receiving , in her behaviour to himself , the most pointed assurance of her affection .
Elinor could not be surprised at their attachment .
She only wished that it were less openly shewn ; and once or twice did venture to suggest the propriety of some self - command to Marianne .
But Marianne abhorred all concealment where no real disgrace could attend unreserve ; and to aim at the restraint of sentiments which were not in themselves illaudable , appeared to her not merely an unnecessary effort , but a disgraceful subjection of reason to common - place and mistaken notions .
Willoughby thought the same ; and their behaviour at all times , was an illustration of their opinions .
When he was present she had no eyes for any one else .
Every thing he did , was right .
Every thing he said , was clever .
If their evenings at the park were concluded with cards , he cheated himself and all the rest of the party to get her a good hand .
If dancing formed the amusement of the night , they were partners for half the time ; and when obliged to separate for a couple of dances , were careful to stand together and scarcely spoke a word to any body else .
Such conduct made them of course most exceedingly laughed at ; but ridicule could not shame , and seemed hardly to provoke them .
Mrs . Dashwood entered into all their feelings with a warmth which left her no inclination for checking this excessive display of them .
To her it was but the natural consequence of a strong affection in a young and ardent mind .
This was the season of happiness to Marianne .
Her heart was devoted to Willoughby , and the fond attachment to Norland , which she brought with her from Sussex , was more likely to be softened than she had thought it possible before , by the charms which his society bestowed on her present home .
Elinor ' s happiness was not so great .
Her heart was not so much at ease , nor her satisfaction in their amusements so pure .
They afforded her no companion that could make amends for what she had left behind , nor that could teach her to think of Norland with less regret than ever .
Neither Lady Middleton nor Mrs . Jennings could supply to her the conversation she missed ; although the latter was an everlasting talker , and from the first had regarded her with a kindness which ensured her a large share of her discourse .
She had already repeated her own history to Elinor three or four times ; and had Elinor ' s memory been equal to her means of improvement , she might have known very early in their acquaintance all the particulars of Mr . Jenning ' s last illness , and what he said to his wife a few minutes before he died .
Lady Middleton was more agreeable than her mother only in being more silent .
Elinor needed little observation to perceive that her reserve was a mere calmness of manner with which sense had nothing to do .
Towards her husband and mother she was the same as to them ; and intimacy was therefore neither to be looked for nor desired .
She had nothing to say one day that she had not said the day before .
Her insipidity was invariable , for even her spirits were always the same ; and though she did not oppose the parties arranged by her husband , provided every thing were conducted in style and her two eldest children attended her , she never appeared to receive more enjoyment from them than she might have experienced in sitting at home ;-- and so little did her presence add to the pleasure of the others , by any share in their conversation , that they were sometimes only reminded of her being amongst them by her solicitude about her troublesome boys .
In Colonel Brandon alone , of all her new acquaintance , did Elinor find a person who could in any degree claim the respect of abilities , excite the interest of friendship , or give pleasure as a companion .
Willoughby was out of the question .
Her admiration and regard , even her sisterly regard , was all his own ; but he was a lover ; his attentions were wholly Marianne ' s , and a far less agreeable man might have been more generally pleasing .
Colonel Brandon , unfortunately for himself , had no such encouragement to think only of Marianne , and in conversing with Elinor he found the greatest consolation for the indifference of her sister .
Elinor ' s compassion for him increased , as she had reason to suspect that the misery of disappointed love had already been known to him .
This suspicion was given by some words which accidently dropped from him one evening at the park , when they were sitting down together by mutual consent , while the others were dancing .
His eyes were fixed on Marianne , and , after a silence of some minutes , he said , with a faint smile , " Your sister , I understand , does not approve of second attachments ."
" No ," replied Elinor , " her opinions are all romantic ."
" Or rather , as I believe , she considers them impossible to exist ."
" I believe she does .
But how she contrives it without reflecting on the character of her own father , who had himself two wives , I know not .
A few years however will settle her opinions on the reasonable basis of common sense and observation ; and then they may be more easy to define and to justify than they now are , by any body but herself ."
" This will probably be the case ," he replied ; " and yet there is something so amiable in the prejudices of a young mind , that one is sorry to see them give way to the reception of more general opinions ."
" I cannot agree with you there ," said Elinor .
" There are inconveniences attending such feelings as Marianne ' s , which all the charms of enthusiasm and ignorance of the world cannot atone for .
Her systems have all the unfortunate tendency of setting propriety at nought ; and a better acquaintance with the world is what I look forward to as her greatest possible advantage ."
After a short pause he resumed the conversation by saying ,--
" Does your sister make no distinction in her objections against a second attachment ?
or is it equally criminal in every body ?
Are those who have been disappointed in their first choice , whether from the inconstancy of its object , or the perverseness of circumstances , to be equally indifferent during the rest of their lives ?"
" Upon my word , I am not acquainted with the minutiae of her principles .
I only know that I never yet heard her admit any instance of a second attachment ' s being pardonable ."
" This ," said he , " cannot hold ; but a change , a total change of sentiments -- No , no , do not desire it ; for when the romantic refinements of a young mind are obliged to give way , how frequently are they succeeded by such opinions as are but too common , and too dangerous !
I speak from experience .
I once knew a lady who in temper and mind greatly resembled your sister , who thought and judged like her , but who from an inforced change -- from a series of unfortunate circumstances "-- Here he stopt suddenly ; appeared to think that he had said too much , and by his countenance gave rise to conjectures , which might not otherwise have entered Elinor ' s head .
The lady would probably have passed without suspicion , had he not convinced Miss Dashwood that what concerned her ought not to escape his lips .
As it was , it required but a slight effort of fancy to connect his emotion with the tender recollection of past regard .
Elinor attempted no more .
But Marianne , in her place , would not have done so little .
The whole story would have been speedily formed under her active imagination ; and every thing established in the most melancholy order of disastrous love .
CHAPTER 12
As Elinor and Marianne were walking together the next morning the latter communicated a piece of news to her sister , which in spite of all that she knew before of Marianne ' s imprudence and want of thought , surprised her by its extravagant testimony of both .
Marianne told her , with the greatest delight , that Willoughby had given her a horse , one that he had bred himself on his estate in Somersetshire , and which was exactly calculated to carry a woman .
Without considering that it was not in her mother ' s plan to keep any horse , that if she were to alter her resolution in favour of this gift , she must buy another for the servant , and keep a servant to ride it , and after all , build a stable to receive them , she had accepted the present without hesitation , and told her sister of it in raptures .
" He intends to send his groom into Somersetshire immediately for it ," she added , " and when it arrives we will ride every day .
You shall share its use with me .
Imagine to yourself , my dear Elinor , the delight of a gallop on some of these downs ."
Most unwilling was she to awaken from such a dream of felicity to comprehend all the unhappy truths which attended the affair ; and for some time she refused to submit to them .
As to an additional servant , the expense would be a trifle ; Mamma she was sure would never object to it ; and any horse would do for HIM ; he might always get one at the park ; as to a stable , the merest shed would be sufficient .
Elinor then ventured to doubt the propriety of her receiving such a present from a man so little , or at least so lately known to her .
This was too much .
" You are mistaken , Elinor ," said she warmly , " in supposing I know very little of Willoughby .
I have not known him long indeed , but I am much better acquainted with him , than I am with any other creature in the world , except yourself and mama .
It is not time or opportunity that is to determine intimacy ;-- it is disposition alone .
Seven years would be insufficient to make some people acquainted with each other , and seven days are more than enough for others .
I should hold myself guilty of greater impropriety in accepting a horse from my brother , than from Willoughby .
Of John I know very little , though we have lived together for years ; but of Willoughby my judgment has long been formed ."
Elinor thought it wisest to touch that point no more .
She knew her sister ' s temper .
Opposition on so tender a subject would only attach her the more to her own opinion .
But by an appeal to her affection for her mother , by representing the inconveniences which that indulgent mother must draw on herself , if ( as would probably be the case ) she consented to this increase of establishment , Marianne was shortly subdued ; and she promised not to tempt her mother to such imprudent kindness by mentioning the offer , and to tell Willoughby when she saw him next , that it must be declined .
She was faithful to her word ; and when Willoughby called at the cottage , the same day , Elinor heard her express her disappointment to him in a low voice , on being obliged to forego the acceptance of his present .
The reasons for this alteration were at the same time related , and they were such as to make further entreaty on his side impossible .
His concern however was very apparent ; and after expressing it with earnestness , he added , in the same low voice ,--" But , Marianne , the horse is still yours , though you cannot use it now .
I shall keep it only till you can claim it .
When you leave Barton to form your own establishment in a more lasting home , Queen Mab shall receive you ."
This was all overheard by Miss Dashwood ; and in the whole of the sentence , in his manner of pronouncing it , and in his addressing her sister by her Christian name alone , she instantly saw an intimacy so decided , a meaning so direct , as marked a perfect agreement between them .
From that moment she doubted not of their being engaged to each other ; and the belief of it created no other surprise than that she , or any of their friends , should be left by tempers so frank , to discover it by accident .
Margaret related something to her the next day , which placed this matter in a still clearer light .
Willoughby had spent the preceding evening with them , and Margaret , by being left some time in the parlour with only him and Marianne , had had opportunity for observations , which , with a most important face , she communicated to her eldest sister , when they were next by themselves .
" Oh , Elinor !"
she cried , " I have such a secret to tell you about Marianne .
I am sure she will be married to Mr . Willoughby very soon ."
" You have said so ," replied Elinor , " almost every day since they first met on High - church Down ; and they had not known each other a week , I believe , before you were certain that Marianne wore his picture round her neck ; but it turned out to be only the miniature of our great uncle ."
" But indeed this is quite another thing .
I am sure they will be married very soon , for he has got a lock of her hair ."
" Take care , Margaret .
It may be only the hair of some great uncle of HIS ."
" But , indeed , Elinor , it is Marianne ' s .
I am almost sure it is , for I saw him cut it off .
Last night after tea , when you and mama went out of the room , they were whispering and talking together as fast as could be , and he seemed to be begging something of her , and presently he took up her scissors and cut off a long lock of her hair , for it was all tumbled down her back ; and he kissed it , and folded it up in a piece of white paper ; and put it into his pocket - book ."
For such particulars , stated on such authority , Elinor could not withhold her credit ; nor was she disposed to it , for the circumstance was in perfect unison with what she had heard and seen herself .
Margaret ' s sagacity was not always displayed in a way so satisfactory to her sister .
When Mrs . Jennings attacked her one evening at the park , to give the name of the young man who was Elinor ' s particular favourite , which had been long a matter of great curiosity to her , Margaret answered by looking at her sister , and saying , " I must not tell , may I , Elinor ?"
This of course made every body laugh ; and Elinor tried to laugh too .
But the effort was painful .
She was convinced that Margaret had fixed on a person whose name she could not bear with composure to become a standing joke with Mrs . Jennings .
Marianne felt for her most sincerely ; but she did more harm than good to the cause , by turning very red and saying in an angry manner to Margaret ,
" Remember that whatever your conjectures may be , you have no right to repeat them ."
" I never had any conjectures about it ," replied Margaret ; " it was you who told me of it yourself ."
This increased the mirth of the company , and Margaret was eagerly pressed to say something more .
" Oh !
pray , Miss Margaret , let us know all about it ," said Mrs . Jennings .
" What is the gentleman ' s name ?"
" I must not tell , ma ' am .
But I know very well what it is ; and I know where he is too ."
" Yes , yes , we can guess where he is ; at his own house at Norland to be sure .
He is the curate of the parish I dare say ."
" No , THAT he is not .
He is of no profession at all ."
" Margaret ," said Marianne with great warmth , " you know that all this is an invention of your own , and that there is no such person in existence ."
" Well , then , he is lately dead , Marianne , for I am sure there was such a man once , and his name begins with an F ."
Most grateful did Elinor feel to Lady Middleton for observing , at this moment , " that it rained very hard ," though she believed the interruption to proceed less from any attention to her , than from her ladyship ' s great dislike of all such inelegant subjects of raillery as delighted her husband and mother .
The idea however started by her , was immediately pursued by Colonel Brandon , who was on every occasion mindful of the feelings of others ; and much was said on the subject of rain by both of them .
Willoughby opened the piano - forte , and asked Marianne to sit down to it ; and thus amidst the various endeavours of different people to quit the topic , it fell to the ground .
But not so easily did Elinor recover from the alarm into which it had thrown her .
A party was formed this evening for going on the following day to see a very fine place about twelve miles from Barton , belonging to a brother - in - law of Colonel Brandon , without whose interest it could not be seen , as the proprietor , who was then abroad , had left strict orders on that head .
The grounds were declared to be highly beautiful , and Sir John , who was particularly warm in their praise , might be allowed to be a tolerable judge , for he had formed parties to visit them , at least , twice every summer for the last ten years .
They contained a noble piece of water ; a sail on which was to a form a great part of the morning ' s amusement ; cold provisions were to be taken , open carriages only to be employed , and every thing conducted in the usual style of a complete party of pleasure .
To some few of the company it appeared rather a bold undertaking , considering the time of year , and that it had rained every day for the last fortnight ;-- and Mrs . Dashwood , who had already a cold , was persuaded by Elinor to stay at home .
CHAPTER 13
Their intended excursion to Whitwell turned out very different from what Elinor had expected .
She was prepared to be wet through , fatigued , and frightened ; but the event was still more unfortunate , for they did not go at all .
By ten o ' clock the whole party was assembled at the park , where they were to breakfast .
The morning was rather favourable , though it had rained all night , as the clouds were then dispersing across the sky , and the sun frequently appeared .
They were all in high spirits and good humour , eager to be happy , and determined to submit to the greatest inconveniences and hardships rather than be otherwise .
While they were at breakfast the letters were brought in .
Among the rest there was one for Colonel Brandon ;-- he took it , looked at the direction , changed colour , and immediately left the room .
" What is the matter with Brandon ?"
said Sir John .
Nobody could tell .
" I hope he has had no bad news ," said Lady Middleton .
" It must be something extraordinary that could make Colonel Brandon leave my breakfast table so suddenly ."
In about five minutes he returned .
" No bad news , Colonel , I hope ;" said Mrs . Jennings , as soon as he entered the room .
" None at all , ma ' am , I thank you ."
" Was it from Avignon ?
I hope it is not to say that your sister is worse ."
" No , ma ' am .
It came from town , and is merely a letter of business ."
" But how came the hand to discompose you so much , if it was only a letter of business ?
Come , come , this won ' t do , Colonel ; so let us hear the truth of it ."
" My dear madam ," said Lady Middleton , " recollect what you are saying ."
" Perhaps it is to tell you that your cousin Fanny is married ?"
said Mrs . Jennings , without attending to her daughter ' s reproof .
" No , indeed , it is not ."
" Well , then , I know who it is from , Colonel .
And I hope she is well ."
" Whom do you mean , ma ' am ?"
said he , colouring a little .
" Oh !
you know who I mean ."
" I am particularly sorry , ma ' am ," said he , addressing Lady Middleton , " that I should receive this letter today , for it is on business which requires my immediate attendance in town ."
" In town !"
cried Mrs . Jennings .
" What can you have to do in town at this time of year ?"
" My own loss is great ," be continued , " in being obliged to leave so agreeable a party ; but I am the more concerned , as I fear my presence is necessary to gain your admittance at Whitwell ."
What a blow upon them all was this !
" But if you write a note to the housekeeper , Mr . Brandon ," said Marianne , eagerly , " will it not be sufficient ?"
He shook his head .
" We must go ," said Sir John .--" It shall not be put off when we are so near it .
You cannot go to town till tomorrow , Brandon , that is all ."
" I wish it could be so easily settled .
But it is not in my power to delay my journey for one day !"
" If you would but let us know what your business is ," said Mrs . Jennings , " we might see whether it could be put off or not ."
" You would not be six hours later ," said Willoughby , " if you were to defer your journey till our return ."
" I cannot afford to lose ONE hour ."
--
Elinor then heard Willoughby say , in a low voice to Marianne , " There are some people who cannot bear a party of pleasure .
Brandon is one of them .
He was afraid of catching cold I dare say , and invented this trick for getting out of it .
I would lay fifty guineas the letter was of his own writing ."
" I have no doubt of it ," replied Marianne .
" There is no persuading you to change your mind , Brandon , I know of old ," said Sir John , " when once you are determined on anything .
But , however , I hope you will think better of it .
Consider , here are the two Miss Careys come over from Newton , the three Miss Dashwoods walked up from the cottage , and Mr . Willoughby got up two hours before his usual time , on purpose to go to Whitwell ."
Colonel Brandon again repeated his sorrow at being the cause of disappointing the party ; but at the same time declared it to be unavoidable .
" Well , then , when will you come back again ?"
" I hope we shall see you at Barton ," added her ladyship , " as soon as you can conveniently leave town ; and we must put off the party to Whitwell till you return ."
" You are very obliging .
But it is so uncertain , when I may have it in my power to return , that I dare not engage for it at all ."
" Oh !
he must and shall come back ," cried Sir John .
" If he is not here by the end of the week , I shall go after him ."
" Ay , so do , Sir John ," cried Mrs . Jennings , " and then perhaps you may find out what his business is ."
" I do not want to pry into other men ' s concerns .
I suppose it is something he is ashamed of ."
Colonel Brandon ' s horses were announced .
" You do not go to town on horseback , do you ?"
added Sir John .
" No .
Only to Honiton .
I shall then go post ."
" Well , as you are resolved to go , I wish you a good journey .
But you had better change your mind ."
" I assure you it is not in my power ."
He then took leave of the whole party .
" Is there no chance of my seeing you and your sisters in town this winter , Miss Dashwood ?"
" I am afraid , none at all ."
" Then I must bid you farewell for a longer time than I should wish to do ."
To Marianne , he merely bowed and said nothing .
" Come Colonel ," said Mrs . Jennings , " before you go , do let us know what you are going about ."
He wished her a good morning , and , attended by Sir John , left the room .
The complaints and lamentations which politeness had hitherto restrained , now burst forth universally ; and they all agreed again and again how provoking it was to be so disappointed .
" I can guess what his business is , however ," said Mrs . Jennings exultingly .
" Can you , ma ' am ?"
said almost every body .
" Yes ; it is about Miss Williams , I am sure ."
" And who is Miss Williams ?"
asked Marianne .
" What !
do not you know who Miss Williams is ?
I am sure you must have heard of her before .
She is a relation of the Colonel ' s , my dear ; a very near relation .
We will not say how near , for fear of shocking the young ladies ."
Then , lowering her voice a little , she said to Elinor , " She is his natural daughter ."
" Indeed !"
" Oh , yes ; and as like him as she can stare .
I dare say the Colonel will leave her all his fortune ."
When Sir John returned , he joined most heartily in the general regret on so unfortunate an event ; concluding however by observing , that as they were all got together , they must do something by way of being happy ; and after some consultation it was agreed , that although happiness could only be enjoyed at Whitwell , they might procure a tolerable composure of mind by driving about the country .
The carriages were then ordered ; Willoughby ' s was first , and Marianne never looked happier than when she got into it .
He drove through the park very fast , and they were soon out of sight ; and nothing more of them was seen till their return , which did not happen till after the return of all the rest .
They both seemed delighted with their drive ; but said only in general terms that they had kept in the lanes , while the others went on the downs .
It was settled that there should be a dance in the evening , and that every body should be extremely merry all day long .
Some more of the Careys came to dinner , and they had the pleasure of sitting down nearly twenty to table , which Sir John observed with great contentment .
Willoughby took his usual place between the two elder Miss Dashwoods .
Mrs . Jennings sat on Elinor ' s right hand ; and they had not been long seated , before she leant behind her and Willoughby , and said to Marianne , loud enough for them both to hear , " I have found you out in spite of all your tricks .
I know where you spent the morning ."
Marianne coloured , and replied very hastily , " Where , pray ?"
--
" Did not you know ," said Willoughby , " that we had been out in my curricle ?"
" Yes , yes , Mr . Impudence , I know that very well , and I was determined to find out WHERE you had been to .-- I hope you like your house , Miss Marianne .
It is a very large one , I know ; and when I come to see you , I hope you will have new - furnished it , for it wanted it very much when I was there six years ago ."
Marianne turned away in great confusion .
Mrs . Jennings laughed heartily ; and Elinor found that in her resolution to know where they had been , she had actually made her own woman enquire of Mr . Willoughby ' s groom ; and that she had by that method been informed that they had gone to Allenham , and spent a considerable time there in walking about the garden and going all over the house .
Elinor could hardly believe this to be true , as it seemed very unlikely that Willoughby should propose , or Marianne consent , to enter the house while Mrs . Smith was in it , with whom Marianne had not the smallest acquaintance .
As soon as they left the dining - room , Elinor enquired of her about it ; and great was her surprise when she found that every circumstance related by Mrs . Jennings was perfectly true .
Marianne was quite angry with her for doubting it .
" Why should you imagine , Elinor , that we did not go there , or that we did not see the house ?
Is not it what you have often wished to do yourself ?"
" Yes , Marianne , but I would not go while Mrs . Smith was there , and with no other companion than Mr .
Willoughby ."
" Mr . Willoughby however is the only person who can have a right to shew that house ; and as he went in an open carriage , it was impossible to have any other companion .
I never spent a pleasanter morning in my life ."
" I am afraid ," replied Elinor , " that the pleasantness of an employment does not always evince its propriety ."
" On the contrary , nothing can be a stronger proof of it , Elinor ; for if there had been any real impropriety in what I did , I should have been sensible of it at the time , for we always know when we are acting wrong , and with such a conviction I could have had no pleasure ."
" But , my dear Marianne , as it has already exposed you to some very impertinent remarks , do you not now begin to doubt the discretion of your own conduct ?"
" If the impertinent remarks of Mrs . Jennings are to be the proof of impropriety in conduct , we are all offending every moment of our lives .
I value not her censure any more than I should do her commendation .
I am not sensible of having done anything wrong in walking over Mrs . Smith ' s grounds , or in seeing her house .
They will one day be Mr . Willoughby ' s , and --"
" If they were one day to be your own , Marianne , you would not be justified in what you have done ."
She blushed at this hint ; but it was even visibly gratifying to her ; and after a ten minutes ' interval of earnest thought , she came to her sister again , and said with great good humour , " Perhaps , Elinor , it WAS rather ill - judged in me to go to Allenham ; but Mr . Willoughby wanted particularly to shew me the place ; and it is a charming house , I assure you .-- There is one remarkably pretty sitting room up stairs ; of a nice comfortable size for constant use , and with modern furniture it would be delightful .
It is a corner room , and has windows on two sides .
On one side you look across the bowling - green , behind the house , to a beautiful hanging wood , and on the other you have a view of the church and village , and , beyond them , of those fine bold hills that we have so often admired .
I did not see it to advantage , for nothing could be more forlorn than the furniture ,-- but if it were newly fitted up -- a couple of hundred pounds , Willoughby says , would make it one of the pleasantest summer - rooms in England ."
Could Elinor have listened to her without interruption from the others , she would have described every room in the house with equal delight .
CHAPTER 14
The sudden termination of Colonel Brandon ' s visit at the park , with his steadiness in concealing its cause , filled the mind , and raised the wonder of Mrs . Jennings for two or three days ; she was a great wonderer , as every one must be who takes a very lively interest in all the comings and goings of all their acquaintance .
She wondered , with little intermission what could be the reason of it ; was sure there must be some bad news , and thought over every kind of distress that could have befallen him , with a fixed determination that he should not escape them all .
" Something very melancholy must be the matter , I am sure ," said she .
" I could see it in his face .
Poor man !
I am afraid his circumstances may be bad .
The estate at Delaford was never reckoned more than two thousand a year , and his brother left everything sadly involved .
I do think he must have been sent for about money matters , for what else can it be ?
I wonder whether it is so .
I would give anything to know the truth of it .
Perhaps it is about Miss Williams and , by the bye , I dare say it is , because he looked so conscious when I mentioned her .
May be she is ill in town ; nothing in the world more likely , for I have a notion she is always rather sickly .
I would lay any wager it is about Miss Williams .
It is not so very likely he should be distressed in his circumstances NOW , for he is a very prudent man , and to be sure must have cleared the estate by this time .
I wonder what it can be !
May be his sister is worse at Avignon , and has sent for him over .
His setting off in such a hurry seems very like it .
Well , I wish him out of all his trouble with all my heart , and a good wife into the bargain ."
So wondered , so talked Mrs . Jennings .
Her opinion varying with every fresh conjecture , and all seeming equally probable as they arose .
Elinor , though she felt really interested in the welfare of Colonel Brandon , could not bestow all the wonder on his going so suddenly away , which Mrs . Jennings was desirous of her feeling ; for besides that the circumstance did not in her opinion justify such lasting amazement or variety of speculation , her wonder was otherwise disposed of .
It was engrossed by the extraordinary silence of her sister and Willoughby on the subject , which they must know to be peculiarly interesting to them all .
As this silence continued , every day made it appear more strange and more incompatible with the disposition of both .
Why they should not openly acknowledge to her mother and herself , what their constant behaviour to each other declared to have taken place , Elinor could not imagine .
She could easily conceive that marriage might not be immediately in their power ; for though Willoughby was independent , there was no reason to believe him rich .
His estate had been rated by Sir John at about six or seven hundred a year ; but he lived at an expense to which that income could hardly be equal , and he had himself often complained of his poverty .
But for this strange kind of secrecy maintained by them relative to their engagement , which in fact concealed nothing at all , she could not account ; and it was so wholly contradictory to their general opinions and practice , that a doubt sometimes entered her mind of their being really engaged , and this doubt was enough to prevent her making any inquiry of Marianne .
Nothing could be more expressive of attachment to them all , than Willoughby ' s behaviour .
To Marianne it had all the distinguishing tenderness which a lover ' s heart could give , and to the rest of the family it was the affectionate attention of a son and a brother .
The cottage seemed to be considered and loved by him as his home ; many more of his hours were spent there than at Allenham ; and if no general engagement collected them at the park , the exercise which called him out in the morning was almost certain of ending there , where the rest of the day was spent by himself at the side of Marianne , and by his favourite pointer at her feet .
One evening in particular , about a week after Colonel Brandon left the country , his heart seemed more than usually open to every feeling of attachment to the objects around him ; and on Mrs . Dashwood ' s happening to mention her design of improving the cottage in the spring , he warmly opposed every alteration of a place which affection had established as perfect with him .
" What !"
he exclaimed --" Improve this dear cottage !
No .
THAT I will never consent to .
Not a stone must be added to its walls , not an inch to its size , if my feelings are regarded ."
" Do not be alarmed ," said Miss Dashwood , " nothing of the kind will be done ; for my mother will never have money enough to attempt it ."
" I am heartily glad of it ," he cried .
" May she always be poor , if she can employ her riches no better ."
" Thank you , Willoughby .
But you may be assured that I would not sacrifice one sentiment of local attachment of yours , or of any one whom I loved , for all the improvements in the world .
Depend upon it that whatever unemployed sum may remain , when I make up my accounts in the spring , I would even rather lay it uselessly by than dispose of it in a manner so painful to you .
But are you really so attached to this place as to see no defect in it ?"
" I am ," said he .
" To me it is faultless .
Nay , more , I consider it as the only form of building in which happiness is attainable , and were I rich enough I would instantly pull Combe down , and build it up again in the exact plan of this cottage ."
" With dark narrow stairs and a kitchen that smokes , I suppose ," said Elinor .
" Yes ," cried he in the same eager tone , " with all and every thing belonging to it ;-- in no one convenience or INconvenience about it , should the least variation be perceptible .
Then , and then only , under such a roof , I might perhaps be as happy at Combe as I have been at Barton ."
" I flatter myself ," replied Elinor , " that even under the disadvantage of better rooms and a broader staircase , you will hereafter find your own house as faultless as you now do this ."
" There certainly are circumstances ," said Willoughby , " which might greatly endear it to me ; but this place will always have one claim of my affection , which no other can possibly share ."
Mrs . Dashwood looked with pleasure at Marianne , whose fine eyes were fixed so expressively on Willoughby , as plainly denoted how well she understood him .
" How often did I wish ," added he , " when I was at Allenham this time twelvemonth , that Barton cottage were inhabited !
I never passed within view of it without admiring its situation , and grieving that no one should live in it .
How little did I then think that the very first news I should hear from Mrs . Smith , when I next came into the country , would be that Barton cottage was taken : and I felt an immediate satisfaction and interest in the event , which nothing but a kind of prescience of what happiness I should experience from it , can account for .
Must it not have been so , Marianne ?"
speaking to her in a lowered voice .
Then continuing his former tone , he said , " And yet this house you would spoil , Mrs . Dashwood ?
You would rob it of its simplicity by imaginary improvement !
and this dear parlour in which our acquaintance first began , and in which so many happy hours have been since spent by us together , you would degrade to the condition of a common entrance , and every body would be eager to pass through the room which has hitherto contained within itself more real accommodation and comfort than any other apartment of the handsomest dimensions in the world could possibly afford ."
Mrs . Dashwood again assured him that no alteration of the kind should be attempted .
" You are a good woman ," he warmly replied .
" Your promise makes me easy .
Extend it a little farther , and it will make me happy .
Tell me that not only your house will remain the same , but that I shall ever find you and yours as unchanged as your dwelling ; and that you will always consider me with the kindness which has made everything belonging to you so dear to me ."
The promise was readily given , and Willoughby ' s behaviour during the whole of the evening declared at once his affection and happiness .
" Shall we see you tomorrow to dinner ?"
said Mrs . Dashwood , when he was leaving them .
" I do not ask you to come in the morning , for we must walk to the park , to call on Lady Middleton ."
He engaged to be with them by four o ' clock .
CHAPTER 15
Mrs . Dashwood ' s visit to Lady Middleton took place the next day , and two of her daughters went with her ; but Marianne excused herself from being of the party , under some trifling pretext of employment ; and her mother , who concluded that a promise had been made by Willoughby the night before of calling on her while they were absent , was perfectly satisfied with her remaining at home .
On their return from the park they found Willoughby ' s curricle and servant in waiting at the cottage , and Mrs . Dashwood was convinced that her conjecture had been just .
So far it was all as she had foreseen ; but on entering the house she beheld what no foresight had taught her to expect .
They were no sooner in the passage than Marianne came hastily out of the parlour apparently in violent affliction , with her handkerchief at her eyes ; and without noticing them ran up stairs .
Surprised and alarmed they proceeded directly into the room she had just quitted , where they found only Willoughby , who was leaning against the mantel - piece with his back towards them .
He turned round on their coming in , and his countenance shewed that he strongly partook of the emotion which over - powered Marianne .
" Is anything the matter with her ?"
cried Mrs . Dashwood as she entered --" is she ill ?"
" I hope not ," he replied , trying to look cheerful ; and with a forced smile presently added , " It is I who may rather expect to be ill -- for I am now suffering under a very heavy disappointment !"
" Disappointment ?"
" Yes , for I am unable to keep my engagement with you .
Mrs . Smith has this morning exercised the privilege of riches upon a poor dependent cousin , by sending me on business to London .
I have just received my dispatches , and taken my farewell of Allenham ; and by way of exhilaration I am now come to take my farewell of you ."
" To London !-- and are you going this morning ?"
" Almost this moment ."
" This is very unfortunate .
But Mrs . Smith must be obliged ;-- and her business will not detain you from us long I hope ."
He coloured as he replied , " You are very kind , but I have no idea of returning into Devonshire immediately .
My visits to Mrs . Smith are never repeated within the twelvemonth ."
" And is Mrs . Smith your only friend ?
Is Allenham the only house in the neighbourhood to which you will be welcome ?
For shame , Willoughby , can you wait for an invitation here ?"
His colour increased ; and with his eyes fixed on the ground he only replied , " You are too good ."
Mrs . Dashwood looked at Elinor with surprise .
Elinor felt equal amazement .
For a few moments every one was silent .
Mrs . Dashwood first spoke .
" I have only to add , my dear Willoughby , that at Barton cottage you will always be welcome ; for I will not press you to return here immediately , because you only can judge how far THAT might be pleasing to Mrs . Smith ; and on this head I shall be no more disposed to question your judgment than to doubt your inclination ."
" My engagements at present ," replied Willoughby , confusedly , " are of such a nature -- that -- I dare not flatter myself "--
He stopt .
Mrs . Dashwood was too much astonished to speak , and another pause succeeded .
This was broken by Willoughby , who said with a faint smile , " It is folly to linger in this manner .
I will not torment myself any longer by remaining among friends whose society it is impossible for me now to enjoy ."
He then hastily took leave of them all and left the room .
They saw him step into his carriage , and in a minute it was out of sight .
Mrs . Dashwood felt too much for speech , and instantly quitted the parlour to give way in solitude to the concern and alarm which this sudden departure occasioned .
Elinor ' s uneasiness was at least equal to her mother ' s .
She thought of what had just passed with anxiety and distrust .
Willoughby ' s behaviour in taking leave of them , his embarrassment , and affectation of cheerfulness , and , above all , his unwillingness to accept her mother ' s invitation , a backwardness so unlike a lover , so unlike himself , greatly disturbed her .
One moment she feared that no serious design had ever been formed on his side ; and the next that some unfortunate quarrel had taken place between him and her sister ;-- the distress in which Marianne had quitted the room was such as a serious quarrel could most reasonably account for , though when she considered what Marianne ' s love for him was , a quarrel seemed almost impossible .
But whatever might be the particulars of their separation , her sister ' s affliction was indubitable ; and she thought with the tenderest compassion of that violent sorrow which Marianne was in all probability not merely giving way to as a relief , but feeding and encouraging as a duty .
In about half an hour her mother returned , and though her eyes were red , her countenance was not uncheerful .
" Our dear Willoughby is now some miles from Barton , Elinor ," said she , as she sat down to work , " and with how heavy a heart does he travel ?"
" It is all very strange .
So suddenly to be gone !
It seems but the work of a moment .
And last night he was with us so happy , so cheerful , so affectionate ?
And now , after only ten minutes notice -- Gone too without intending to return !-- Something more than what be owned to us must have happened .
He did not speak , he did not behave like himself .
YOU must have seen the difference as well as I .
What can it be ?
Can they have quarrelled ?
Why else should he have shewn such unwillingness to accept your invitation here ?"
--
" It was not inclination that he wanted , Elinor ; I could plainly see THAT .
He had not the power of accepting it .
I have thought it all over I assure you , and I can perfectly account for every thing that at first seemed strange to me as well as to you ."
" Can you , indeed !"
" Yes .
I have explained it to myself in the most satisfactory way ;-- but you , Elinor , who love to doubt where you can -- it will not satisfy YOU , I know ; but you shall not talk ME out of my trust in it .
I am persuaded that Mrs . Smith suspects his regard for Marianne , disapproves of it , ( perhaps because she has other views for him ,) and on that account is eager to get him away ;-- and that the business which she sends him off to transact is invented as an excuse to dismiss him .
This is what I believe to have happened .
He is , moreover , aware that she DOES disapprove the connection , he dares not therefore at present confess to her his engagement with Marianne , and he feels himself obliged , from his dependent situation , to give into her schemes , and absent himself from Devonshire for a while .
You will tell me , I know , that this may or may NOT have happened ; but I will listen to no cavil , unless you can point out any other method of understanding the affair as satisfactory at this .
And now , Elinor , what have you to say ?"
" Nothing , for you have anticipated my answer ."
" Then you would have told me , that it might or might not have happened .
Oh , Elinor , how incomprehensible are your feelings !
You had rather take evil upon credit than good .
You had rather look out for misery for Marianne , and guilt for poor Willoughby , than an apology for the latter .
You are resolved to think him blameable , because he took leave of us with less affection than his usual behaviour has shewn .
And is no allowance to be made for inadvertence , or for spirits depressed by recent disappointment ?
Are no probabilities to be accepted , merely because they are not certainties ?
Is nothing due to the man whom we have all such reason to love , and no reason in the world to think ill of ?
To the possibility of motives unanswerable in themselves , though unavoidably secret for a while ?
And , after all , what is it you suspect him of ?"
" I can hardly tell myself .
But suspicion of something unpleasant is the inevitable consequence of such an alteration as we just witnessed in him .
There is great truth , however , in what you have now urged of the allowances which ought to be made for him , and it is my wish to be candid in my judgment of every body .
Willoughby may undoubtedly have very sufficient reasons for his conduct , and I will hope that he has .
But it would have been more like Willoughby to acknowledge them at once .
Secrecy may be advisable ; but still I cannot help wondering at its being practiced by him ."
" Do not blame him , however , for departing from his character , where the deviation is necessary .
But you really do admit the justice of what I have said in his defence ?-- I am happy -- and he is acquitted ."
" Not entirely .
It may be proper to conceal their engagement ( if they ARE engaged ) from Mrs . Smith -- and if that is the case , it must be highly expedient for Willoughby to be but little in Devonshire at present .
But this is no excuse for their concealing it from us ."
" Concealing it from us !
my dear child , do you accuse Willoughby and Marianne of concealment ?
This is strange indeed , when your eyes have been reproaching them every day for incautiousness ."
" I want no proof of their affection ," said Elinor ; " but of their engagement I do ."
" I am perfectly satisfied of both ."
" Yet not a syllable has been said to you on the subject , by either of them ."
" I have not wanted syllables where actions have spoken so plainly .
Has not his behaviour to Marianne and to all of us , for at least the last fortnight , declared that he loved and considered her as his future wife , and that he felt for us the attachment of the nearest relation ?
Have we not perfectly understood each other ?
Has not my consent been daily asked by his looks , his manner , his attentive and affectionate respect ?
My Elinor , is it possible to doubt their engagement ?
How could such a thought occur to you ?
How is it to be supposed that Willoughby , persuaded as he must be of your sister ' s love , should leave her , and leave her perhaps for months , without telling her of his affection ;-- that they should part without a mutual exchange of confidence ?"
" I confess ," replied Elinor , " that every circumstance except ONE is in favour of their engagement ; but that ONE is the total silence of both on the subject , and with me it almost outweighs every other ."
" How strange this is !
You must think wretchedly indeed of Willoughby , if , after all that has openly passed between them , you can doubt the nature of the terms on which they are together .
Has he been acting a part in his behaviour to your sister all this time ?
Do you suppose him really indifferent to her ?"
" No , I cannot think that .
He must and does love her I am sure ."
" But with a strange kind of tenderness , if he can leave her with such indifference , such carelessness of the future , as you attribute to him ."
" You must remember , my dear mother , that I have never considered this matter as certain .
I have had my doubts , I confess ; but they are fainter than they were , and they may soon be entirely done away .
If we find they correspond , every fear of mine will be removed ."
" A mighty concession indeed !
If you were to see them at the altar , you would suppose they were going to be married .
Ungracious girl !
But I require no such proof .
Nothing in my opinion has ever passed to justify doubt ; no secrecy has been attempted ; all has been uniformly open and unreserved .
You cannot doubt your sister ' s wishes .
It must be Willoughby therefore whom you suspect .
But why ?
Is he not a man of honour and feeling ?
Has there been any inconsistency on his side to create alarm ?
can he be deceitful ?"
" I hope not , I believe not ," cried Elinor .
" I love Willoughby , sincerely love him ; and suspicion of his integrity cannot be more painful to yourself than to me .
It has been involuntary , and I will not encourage it .
I was startled , I confess , by the alteration in his manners this morning ;-- he did not speak like himself , and did not return your kindness with any cordiality .
But all this may be explained by such a situation of his affairs as you have supposed .
He had just parted from my sister , had seen her leave him in the greatest affliction ; and if he felt obliged , from a fear of offending Mrs . Smith , to resist the temptation of returning here soon , and yet aware that by declining your invitation , by saying that he was going away for some time , he should seem to act an ungenerous , a suspicious part by our family , be might well be embarrassed and disturbed .
In such a case , a plain and open avowal of his difficulties would have been more to his honour I think , as well as more consistent with his general character ;-- but I will not raise objections against any one ' s conduct on so illiberal a foundation , as a difference in judgment from myself , or a deviation from what I may think right and consistent ."
" You speak very properly .
Willoughby certainly does not deserve to be suspected .
Though WE have not known him long , he is no stranger in this part of the world ; and who has ever spoken to his disadvantage ?
Had he been in a situation to act independently and marry immediately , it might have been odd that he should leave us without acknowledging everything to me at once : but this is not the case .
It is an engagement in some respects not prosperously begun , for their marriage must be at a very uncertain distance ; and even secrecy , as far as it can be observed , may now be very advisable ."
They were interrupted by the entrance of Margaret ; and Elinor was then at liberty to think over the representations of her mother , to acknowledge the probability of many , and hope for the justice of all .
They saw nothing of Marianne till dinner time , when she entered the room and took her place at the table without saying a word .
Her eyes were red and swollen ; and it seemed as if her tears were even then restrained with difficulty .
She avoided the looks of them all , could neither eat nor speak , and after some time , on her mother ' s silently pressing her hand with tender compassion , her small degree of fortitude was quite overcome , she burst into tears and left the room .
This violent oppression of spirits continued the whole evening .
She was without any power , because she was without any desire of command over herself .
The slightest mention of anything relative to Willoughby overpowered her in an instant ; and though her family were most anxiously attentive to her comfort , it was impossible for them , if they spoke at all , to keep clear of every subject which her feelings connected with him .
CHAPTER 16
Marianne would have thought herself very inexcusable had she been able to sleep at all the first night after parting from Willoughby .
She would have been ashamed to look her family in the face the next morning , had she not risen from her bed in more need of repose than when she lay down in it .
But the feelings which made such composure a disgrace , left her in no danger of incurring it .
She was awake the whole night , and she wept the greatest part of it .
She got up with a headache , was unable to talk , and unwilling to take any nourishment ; giving pain every moment to her mother and sisters , and forbidding all attempt at consolation from either .
Her sensibility was potent enough !
When breakfast was over she walked out by herself , and wandered about the village of Allenham , indulging the recollection of past enjoyment and crying over the present reverse for the chief of the morning .
The evening passed off in the equal indulgence of feeling .
She played over every favourite song that she had been used to play to Willoughby , every air in which their voices had been oftenest joined , and sat at the instrument gazing on every line of music that he had written out for her , till her heart was so heavy that no farther sadness could be gained ; and this nourishment of grief was every day applied .
She spent whole hours at the pianoforte alternately singing and crying ; her voice often totally suspended by her tears .
In books too , as well as in music , she courted the misery which a contrast between the past and present was certain of giving .
She read nothing but what they had been used to read together .
Such violence of affliction indeed could not be supported for ever ; it sunk within a few days into a calmer melancholy ; but these employments , to which she daily recurred , her solitary walks and silent meditations , still produced occasional effusions of sorrow as lively as ever .
No letter from Willoughby came ; and none seemed expected by Marianne .
Her mother was surprised , and Elinor again became uneasy .
But Mrs . Dashwood could find explanations whenever she wanted them , which at least satisfied herself .
" Remember , Elinor ," said she , " how very often Sir John fetches our letters himself from the post , and carries them to it .
We have already agreed that secrecy may be necessary , and we must acknowledge that it could not be maintained if their correspondence were to pass through Sir John ' s hands ."
Elinor could not deny the truth of this , and she tried to find in it a motive sufficient for their silence .
But there was one method so direct , so simple , and in her opinion so eligible of knowing the real state of the affair , and of instantly removing all mystery , that she could not help suggesting it to her mother .
" Why do you not ask Marianne at once ," said she , " whether she is or she is not engaged to Willoughby ?
From you , her mother , and so kind , so indulgent a mother , the question could not give offence .
It would be the natural result of your affection for her .
She used to be all unreserve , and to you more especially ."
" I would not ask such a question for the world .
Supposing it possible that they are not engaged , what distress would not such an enquiry inflict !
At any rate it would be most ungenerous .
I should never deserve her confidence again , after forcing from her a confession of what is meant at present to be unacknowledged to any one .
I know Marianne ' s heart : I know that she dearly loves me , and that I shall not be the last to whom the affair is made known , when circumstances make the revealment of it eligible .
I would not attempt to force the confidence of any one ; of a child much less ; because a sense of duty would prevent the denial which her wishes might direct ."
Elinor thought this generosity overstrained , considering her sister ' s youth , and urged the matter farther , but in vain ; common sense , common care , common prudence , were all sunk in Mrs . Dashwood ' s romantic delicacy .
It was several days before Willoughby ' s name was mentioned before Marianne by any of her family ; Sir John and Mrs . Jennings , indeed , were not so nice ; their witticisms added pain to many a painful hour ;-- but one evening , Mrs . Dashwood , accidentally taking up a volume of Shakespeare , exclaimed ,
" We have never finished Hamlet , Marianne ; our dear Willoughby went away before we could get through it .
We will put it by , that when he comes again ... But it may be months , perhaps , before THAT happens ."
" Months !"
cried Marianne , with strong surprise .
" No -- nor many weeks ."
Mrs . Dashwood was sorry for what she had said ; but it gave Elinor pleasure , as it produced a reply from Marianne so expressive of confidence in Willoughby and knowledge of his intentions .
One morning , about a week after his leaving the country , Marianne was prevailed on to join her sisters in their usual walk , instead of wandering away by herself .
Hitherto she had carefully avoided every companion in her rambles .
If her sisters intended to walk on the downs , she directly stole away towards the lanes ; if they talked of the valley , she was as speedy in climbing the hills , and could never be found when the others set off .
But at length she was secured by the exertions of Elinor , who greatly disapproved such continual seclusion .
They walked along the road through the valley , and chiefly in silence , for Marianne ' s MIND could not be controlled , and Elinor , satisfied with gaining one point , would not then attempt more .
Beyond the entrance of the valley , where the country , though still rich , was less wild and more open , a long stretch of the road which they had travelled on first coming to Barton , lay before them ; and on reaching that point , they stopped to look around them , and examine a prospect which formed the distance of their view from the cottage , from a spot which they had never happened to reach in any of their walks before .
Amongst the objects in the scene , they soon discovered an animated one ; it was a man on horseback riding towards them .
In a few minutes they could distinguish him to be a gentleman ; and in a moment afterwards Marianne rapturously exclaimed ,
" It is he ; it is indeed ;-- I know it is !"
-- and was hastening to meet him , when Elinor cried out ,
" Indeed , Marianne , I think you are mistaken .
It is not Willoughby .
The person is not tall enough for him , and has not his air ."
" He has , he has ," cried Marianne , " I am sure he has .
His air , his coat , his horse .
I knew how soon he would come ."
She walked eagerly on as she spoke ; and Elinor , to screen Marianne from particularity , as she felt almost certain of its not being Willoughby , quickened her pace and kept up with her .
They were soon within thirty yards of the gentleman .
Marianne looked again ; her heart sunk within her ; and abruptly turning round , she was hurrying back , when the voices of both her sisters were raised to detain her ; a third , almost as well known as Willoughby ' s , joined them in begging her to stop , and she turned round with surprise to see and welcome Edward Ferrars .
He was the only person in the world who could at that moment be forgiven for not being Willoughby ; the only one who could have gained a smile from her ; but she dispersed her tears to smile on HIM , and in her sister ' s happiness forgot for a time her own disappointment .
He dismounted , and giving his horse to his servant , walked back with them to Barton , whither he was purposely coming to visit them .
He was welcomed by them all with great cordiality , but especially by Marianne , who showed more warmth of regard in her reception of him than even Elinor herself .
To Marianne , indeed , the meeting between Edward and her sister was but a continuation of that unaccountable coldness which she had often observed at Norland in their mutual behaviour .
On Edward ' s side , more particularly , there was a deficiency of all that a lover ought to look and say on such an occasion .
He was confused , seemed scarcely sensible of pleasure in seeing them , looked neither rapturous nor gay , said little but what was forced from him by questions , and distinguished Elinor by no mark of affection .
Marianne saw and listened with increasing surprise .
She began almost to feel a dislike of Edward ; and it ended , as every feeling must end with her , by carrying back her thoughts to Willoughby , whose manners formed a contrast sufficiently striking to those of his brother elect .
After a short silence which succeeded the first surprise and enquiries of meeting , Marianne asked Edward if he came directly from London .
No , he had been in Devonshire a fortnight .
" A fortnight !"
she repeated , surprised at his being so long in the same county with Elinor without seeing her before .
He looked rather distressed as he added , that he had been staying with some friends near Plymouth .
" Have you been lately in Sussex ?"
said Elinor .
" I was at Norland about a month ago ."
" And how does dear , dear Norland look ?"
cried Marianne .
" Dear , dear Norland ," said Elinor , " probably looks much as it always does at this time of the year .
The woods and walks thickly covered with dead leaves ."
" Oh ," cried Marianne , " with what transporting sensation have I formerly seen them fall !
How have I delighted , as I walked , to see them driven in showers about me by the wind !
What feelings have they , the season , the air altogether inspired !
Now there is no one to regard them .
They are seen only as a nuisance , swept hastily off , and driven as much as possible from the sight ."
" It is not every one ," said Elinor , " who has your passion for dead leaves ."
" No ; my feelings are not often shared , not often understood .
But SOMETIMES they are ."
-- As she said this , she sunk into a reverie for a few moments ;-- but rousing herself again , " Now , Edward ," said she , calling his attention to the prospect , " here is Barton valley .
Look up to it , and be tranquil if you can .
Look at those hills !
Did you ever see their equals ?
To the left is Barton park , amongst those woods and plantations .
You may see the end of the house .
And there , beneath that farthest hill , which rises with such grandeur , is our cottage ."
" It is a beautiful country ," he replied ; " but these bottoms must be dirty in winter ."
" How can you think of dirt , with such objects before you ?"
" Because ," replied he , smiling , " among the rest of the objects before me , I see a very dirty lane ."
" How strange !"
said Marianne to herself as she walked on .
" Have you an agreeable neighbourhood here ?
Are the Middletons pleasant people ?"
" No , not all ," answered Marianne ; " we could not be more unfortunately situated ."
" Marianne ," cried her sister , " how can you say so ?
How can you be so unjust ?
They are a very respectable family , Mr . Ferrars ; and towards us have behaved in the friendliest manner .
Have you forgot , Marianne , how many pleasant days we have owed to them ?"
" No ," said Marianne , in a low voice , " nor how many painful moments ."
Elinor took no notice of this ; and directing her attention to their visitor , endeavoured to support something like discourse with him , by talking of their present residence , its conveniences , & c . extorting from him occasional questions and remarks .
His coldness and reserve mortified her severely ; she was vexed and half angry ; but resolving to regulate her behaviour to him by the past rather than the present , she avoided every appearance of resentment or displeasure , and treated him as she thought he ought to be treated from the family connection .
CHAPTER 17
Mrs . Dashwood was surprised only for a moment at seeing him ; for his coming to Barton was , in her opinion , of all things the most natural .
Her joy and expression of regard long outlived her wonder .
He received the kindest welcome from her ; and shyness , coldness , reserve could not stand against such a reception .
They had begun to fail him before he entered the house , and they were quite overcome by the captivating manners of Mrs . Dashwood .
Indeed a man could not very well be in love with either of her daughters , without extending the passion to her ; and Elinor had the satisfaction of seeing him soon become more like himself .
His affections seemed to reanimate towards them all , and his interest in their welfare again became perceptible .
He was not in spirits , however ; he praised their house , admired its prospect , was attentive , and kind ; but still he was not in spirits .
The whole family perceived it , and Mrs . Dashwood , attributing it to some want of liberality in his mother , sat down to table indignant against all selfish parents .
" What are Mrs . Ferrars ' s views for you at present , Edward ?"
said she , when dinner was over and they had drawn round the fire ; " are you still to be a great orator in spite of yourself ?"
" No .
I hope my mother is now convinced that I have no more talents than inclination for a public life !"
" But how is your fame to be established ?
for famous you must be to satisfy all your family ; and with no inclination for expense , no affection for strangers , no profession , and no assurance , you may find it a difficult matter ."
" I shall not attempt it .
I have no wish to be distinguished ; and have every reason to hope I never shall .
Thank Heaven !
I cannot be forced into genius and eloquence ."
" You have no ambition , I well know .
Your wishes are all moderate ."
" As moderate as those of the rest of the world , I believe .
I wish as well as every body else to be perfectly happy ; but , like every body else it must be in my own way .
Greatness will not make me so ."
" Strange that it would !"
cried Marianne .
" What have wealth or grandeur to do with happiness ?"
" Grandeur has but little ," said Elinor , " but wealth has much to do with it ."
" Elinor , for shame !"
said Marianne , " money can only give happiness where there is nothing else to give it .
Beyond a competence , it can afford no real satisfaction , as far as mere self is concerned ."
" Perhaps ," said Elinor , smiling , " we may come to the same point .
YOUR competence and MY wealth are very much alike , I dare say ; and without them , as the world goes now , we shall both agree that every kind of external comfort must be wanting .
Your ideas are only more noble than mine .
Come , what is your competence ?"
" About eighteen hundred or two thousand a year ; not more than THAT ."
Elinor laughed .
" TWO thousand a year !
ONE is my wealth !
I guessed how it would end ."
" And yet two thousand a - year is a very moderate income ," said Marianne .
" A family cannot well be maintained on a smaller .
I am sure I am not extravagant in my demands .
A proper establishment of servants , a carriage , perhaps two , and hunters , cannot be supported on less ."
Elinor smiled again , to hear her sister describing so accurately their future expenses at Combe Magna .
" Hunters !"
repeated Edward --" but why must you have hunters ?
Every body does not hunt ."
Marianne coloured as she replied , " But most people do ."
" I wish ," said Margaret , striking out a novel thought , " that somebody would give us all a large fortune apiece !"
" Oh that they would !"
cried Marianne , her eyes sparkling with animation , and her cheeks glowing with the delight of such imaginary happiness .
" We are all unanimous in that wish , I suppose ," said Elinor , " in spite of the insufficiency of wealth ."
" Oh dear !"
cried Margaret , " how happy I should be !
I wonder what I should do with it !"
Marianne looked as if she had no doubt on that point .
" I should be puzzled to spend so large a fortune myself ," said Mrs . Dashwood , " if my children were all to be rich my help ."
" You must begin your improvements on this house ," observed Elinor , " and your difficulties will soon vanish ."
" What magnificent orders would travel from this family to London ," said Edward , " in such an event !
What a happy day for booksellers , music - sellers , and print - shops !
You , Miss Dashwood , would give a general commission for every new print of merit to be sent you -- and as for Marianne , I know her greatness of soul , there would not be music enough in London to content her .
And books !-- Thomson , Cowper , Scott -- she would buy them all over and over again : she would buy up every copy , I believe , to prevent their falling into unworthy hands ; and she would have every book that tells her how to admire an old twisted tree .
Should not you , Marianne ?
Forgive me , if I am very saucy .
But I was willing to shew you that I had not forgot our old disputes ."
" I love to be reminded of the past , Edward -- whether it be melancholy or gay , I love to recall it -- and you will never offend me by talking of former times .
You are very right in supposing how my money would be spent -- some of it , at least -- my loose cash would certainly be employed in improving my collection of music and books ."
" And the bulk of your fortune would be laid out in annuities on the authors or their heirs ."
" No , Edward , I should have something else to do with it ."
" Perhaps , then , you would bestow it as a reward on that person who wrote the ablest defence of your favourite maxim , that no one can ever be in love more than once in their life -- your opinion on that point is unchanged , I presume ?"
" Undoubtedly .
At my time of life opinions are tolerably fixed .
It is not likely that I should now see or hear any thing to change them ."
" Marianne is as steadfast as ever , you see ," said Elinor , " she is not at all altered ."
" She is only grown a little more grave than she was ."
" Nay , Edward ," said Marianne , " you need not reproach me .
You are not very gay yourself ."
" Why should you think so !"
replied he , with a sigh .
" But gaiety never was a part of MY character ."
" Nor do I think it a part of Marianne ' s ," said Elinor ; " I should hardly call her a lively girl -- she is very earnest , very eager in all she does -- sometimes talks a great deal and always with animation -- but she is not often really merry ."
" I believe you are right ," he replied , " and yet I have always set her down as a lively girl ."
" I have frequently detected myself in such kind of mistakes ," said Elinor , " in a total misapprehension of character in some point or other : fancying people so much more gay or grave , or ingenious or stupid than they really are , and I can hardly tell why or in what the deception originated .
Sometimes one is guided by what they say of themselves , and very frequently by what other people say of them , without giving oneself time to deliberate and judge ."
" But I thought it was right , Elinor ," said Marianne , " to be guided wholly by the opinion of other people .
I thought our judgments were given us merely to be subservient to those of neighbours .
This has always been your doctrine , I am sure ."
" No , Marianne , never .
My doctrine has never aimed at the subjection of the understanding .
All I have ever attempted to influence has been the behaviour .
You must not confound my meaning .
I am guilty , I confess , of having often wished you to treat our acquaintance in general with greater attention ; but when have I advised you to adopt their sentiments or to conform to their judgment in serious matters ?"
" You have not been able to bring your sister over to your plan of general civility ," said Edward to Elinor , " Do you gain no ground ?"
" Quite the contrary ," replied Elinor , looking expressively at Marianne .
" My judgment ," he returned , " is all on your side of the question ; but I am afraid my practice is much more on your sister ' s .
I never wish to offend , but I am so foolishly shy , that I often seem negligent , when I am only kept back by my natural awkwardness .
I have frequently thought that I must have been intended by nature to be fond of low company , I am so little at my ease among strangers of gentility !"
" Marianne has not shyness to excuse any inattention of hers ," said Elinor .
" She knows her own worth too well for false shame ," replied Edward .
" Shyness is only the effect of a sense of inferiority in some way or other .
If I could persuade myself that my manners were perfectly easy and graceful , I should not be shy ."
" But you would still be reserved ," said Marianne , " and that is worse ."
Edward started --" Reserved !
Am I reserved , Marianne ?"
" Yes , very ."
" I do not understand you ," replied he , colouring .
" Reserved !-- how , in what manner ?
What am I to tell you ?
What can you suppose ?"
Elinor looked surprised at his emotion ; but trying to laugh off the subject , she said to him , " Do not you know my sister well enough to understand what she means ?
Do not you know she calls every one reserved who does not talk as fast , and admire what she admires as rapturously as herself ?"
Edward made no answer .
His gravity and thoughtfulness returned on him in their fullest extent -- and he sat for some time silent and dull .
CHAPTER 18
Elinor saw , with great uneasiness the low spirits of her friend .
His visit afforded her but a very partial satisfaction , while his own enjoyment in it appeared so imperfect .
It was evident that he was unhappy ; she wished it were equally evident that he still distinguished her by the same affection which once she had felt no doubt of inspiring ; but hitherto the continuance of his preference seemed very uncertain ; and the reservedness of his manner towards her contradicted one moment what a more animated look had intimated the preceding one .
He joined her and Marianne in the breakfast - room the next morning before the others were down ; and Marianne , who was always eager to promote their happiness as far as she could , soon left them to themselves .
But before she was half way upstairs she heard the parlour door open , and , turning round , was astonished to see Edward himself come out .
" I am going into the village to see my horses ," said be , " as you are not yet ready for breakfast ; I shall be back again presently ."
***
Edward returned to them with fresh admiration of the surrounding country ; in his walk to the village , he had seen many parts of the valley to advantage ; and the village itself , in a much higher situation than the cottage , afforded a general view of the whole , which had exceedingly pleased him .
This was a subject which ensured Marianne ' s attention , and she was beginning to describe her own admiration of these scenes , and to question him more minutely on the objects that had particularly struck him , when Edward interrupted her by saying , " You must not enquire too far , Marianne -- remember I have no knowledge in the picturesque , and I shall offend you by my ignorance and want of taste if we come to particulars .
I shall call hills steep , which ought to be bold ; surfaces strange and uncouth , which ought to be irregular and rugged ; and distant objects out of sight , which ought only to be indistinct through the soft medium of a hazy atmosphere .
You must be satisfied with such admiration as I can honestly give .
I call it a very fine country -- the hills are steep , the woods seem full of fine timber , and the valley looks comfortable and snug -- with rich meadows and several neat farm houses scattered here and there .
It exactly answers my idea of a fine country , because it unites beauty with utility -- and I dare say it is a picturesque one too , because you admire it ; I can easily believe it to be full of rocks and promontories , grey moss and brush wood , but these are all lost on me .
I know nothing of the picturesque ."
" I am afraid it is but too true ," said Marianne ; " but why should you boast of it ?"
" I suspect ," said Elinor , " that to avoid one kind of affectation , Edward here falls into another .
Because he believes many people pretend to more admiration of the beauties of nature than they really feel , and is disgusted with such pretensions , he affects greater indifference and less discrimination in viewing them himself than he possesses .
He is fastidious and will have an affectation of his own ."
" It is very true ," said Marianne , " that admiration of landscape scenery is become a mere jargon .
Every body pretends to feel and tries to describe with the taste and elegance of him who first defined what picturesque beauty was .
I detest jargon of every kind , and sometimes I have kept my feelings to myself , because I could find no language to describe them in but what was worn and hackneyed out of all sense and meaning ."
" I am convinced ," said Edward , " that you really feel all the delight in a fine prospect which you profess to feel .
But , in return , your sister must allow me to feel no more than I profess .
I like a fine prospect , but not on picturesque principles .
I do not like crooked , twisted , blasted trees .
I admire them much more if they are tall , straight , and flourishing .
I do not like ruined , tattered cottages .
I am not fond of nettles or thistles , or heath blossoms .
I have more pleasure in a snug farm - house than a watch - tower -- and a troop of tidy , happy villages please me better than the finest banditti in the world ."
Marianne looked with amazement at Edward , with compassion at her sister .
Elinor only laughed .
The subject was continued no farther ; and Marianne remained thoughtfully silent , till a new object suddenly engaged her attention .
She was sitting by Edward , and in taking his tea from Mrs . Dashwood , his hand passed so directly before her , as to make a ring , with a plait of hair in the centre , very conspicuous on one of his fingers .
" I never saw you wear a ring before , Edward ," she cried .
" Is that Fanny ' s hair ?
I remember her promising to give you some .
But I should have thought her hair had been darker ."
Marianne spoke inconsiderately what she really felt -- but when she saw how much she had pained Edward , her own vexation at her want of thought could not be surpassed by his .
He coloured very deeply , and giving a momentary glance at Elinor , replied , " Yes ; it is my sister ' s hair .
The setting always casts a different shade on it , you know ."
Elinor had met his eye , and looked conscious likewise .
That the hair was her own , she instantaneously felt as well satisfied as Marianne ; the only difference in their conclusions was , that what Marianne considered as a free gift from her sister , Elinor was conscious must have been procured by some theft or contrivance unknown to herself .
She was not in a humour , however , to regard it as an affront , and affecting to take no notice of what passed , by instantly talking of something else , she internally resolved henceforward to catch every opportunity of eyeing the hair and of satisfying herself , beyond all doubt , that it was exactly the shade of her own .
Edward ' s embarrassment lasted some time , and it ended in an absence of mind still more settled .
He was particularly grave the whole morning .
Marianne severely censured herself for what she had said ; but her own forgiveness might have been more speedy , had she known how little offence it had given her sister .
Before the middle of the day , they were visited by Sir John and Mrs . Jennings , who , having heard of the arrival of a gentleman at the cottage , came to take a survey of the guest .
With the assistance of his mother - in - law , Sir John was not long in discovering that the name of Ferrars began with an F . and this prepared a future mine of raillery against the devoted Elinor , which nothing but the newness of their acquaintance with Edward could have prevented from being immediately sprung .
But , as it was , she only learned , from some very significant looks , how far their penetration , founded on Margaret ' s instructions , extended .
Sir John never came to the Dashwoods without either inviting them to dine at the park the next day , or to drink tea with them that evening .
On the present occasion , for the better entertainment of their visitor , towards whose amusement he felt himself bound to contribute , he wished to engage them for both .
" You MUST drink tea with us to night ," said he , " for we shall be quite alone -- and tomorrow you must absolutely dine with us , for we shall be a large party ."
Mrs . Jennings enforced the necessity .
" And who knows but you may raise a dance ," said she .
" And that will tempt YOU , Miss Marianne ."
" A dance !"
cried Marianne .
" Impossible !
Who is to dance ?"
" Who !
why yourselves , and the Careys , and Whitakers to be sure .-- What !
you thought nobody could dance because a certain person that shall be nameless is gone !"
" I wish with all my soul ," cried Sir John , " that Willoughby were among us again ."
This , and Marianne ' s blushing , gave new suspicions to Edward .
" And who is Willoughby ?"
said he , in a low voice , to Miss Dashwood , by whom he was sitting .
She gave him a brief reply .
Marianne ' s countenance was more communicative .
Edward saw enough to comprehend , not only the meaning of others , but such of Marianne ' s expressions as had puzzled him before ; and when their visitors left them , he went immediately round her , and said , in a whisper , " I have been guessing .
Shall I tell you my guess ?"
" What do you mean ?"
" Shall I tell you ."
" Certainly ."
" Well then ; I guess that Mr . Willoughby hunts ."
Marianne was surprised and confused , yet she could not help smiling at the quiet archness of his manner , and after a moment ' s silence , said ,
" Oh , Edward !
How can you ?-- But the time will come I hope ... I am sure you will like him ."
" I do not doubt it ," replied he , rather astonished at her earnestness and warmth ; for had he not imagined it to be a joke for the good of her acquaintance in general , founded only on a something or a nothing between Mr . Willoughby and herself , he would not have ventured to mention it .
CHAPTER 19
Edward remained a week at the cottage ; he was earnestly pressed by Mrs . Dashwood to stay longer ; but , as if he were bent only on self - mortification , he seemed resolved to be gone when his enjoyment among his friends was at the height .
His spirits , during the last two or three days , though still very unequal , were greatly improved -- he grew more and more partial to the house and environs -- never spoke of going away without a sigh -- declared his time to be wholly disengaged -- even doubted to what place he should go when he left them -- but still , go he must .
Never had any week passed so quickly -- he could hardly believe it to be gone .
He said so repeatedly ; other things he said too , which marked the turn of his feelings and gave the lie to his actions .
He had no pleasure at Norland ; he detested being in town ; but either to Norland or London , he must go .
He valued their kindness beyond any thing , and his greatest happiness was in being with them .
Yet , he must leave them at the end of a week , in spite of their wishes and his own , and without any restraint on his time .
Elinor placed all that was astonishing in this way of acting to his mother ' s account ; and it was happy for her that he had a mother whose character was so imperfectly known to her , as to be the general excuse for every thing strange on the part of her son .
Disappointed , however , and vexed as she was , and sometimes displeased with his uncertain behaviour to herself , she was very well disposed on the whole to regard his actions with all the candid allowances and generous qualifications , which had been rather more painfully extorted from her , for Willoughby ' s service , by her mother .
His want of spirits , of openness , and of consistency , were most usually attributed to his want of independence , and his better knowledge of Mrs . Ferrars ' s disposition and designs .
The shortness of his visit , the steadiness of his purpose in leaving them , originated in the same fettered inclination , the same inevitable necessity of temporizing with his mother .
The old well - established grievance of duty against will , parent against child , was the cause of all .
She would have been glad to know when these difficulties were to cease , this opposition was to yield ,-- when Mrs . Ferrars would be reformed , and her son be at liberty to be happy .
But from such vain wishes she was forced to turn for comfort to the renewal of her confidence in Edward ' s affection , to the remembrance of every mark of regard in look or word which fell from him while at Barton , and above all to that flattering proof of it which he constantly wore round his finger .
" I think , Edward ," said Mrs . Dashwood , as they were at breakfast the last morning , " you would be a happier man if you had any profession to engage your time and give an interest to your plans and actions .
Some inconvenience to your friends , indeed , might result from it -- you would not be able to give them so much of your time .
But ( with a smile ) you would be materially benefited in one particular at least -- you would know where to go when you left them ."
" I do assure you ," he replied , " that I have long thought on this point , as you think now .
It has been , and is , and probably will always be a heavy misfortune to me , that I have had no necessary business to engage me , no profession to give me employment , or afford me any thing like independence .
But unfortunately my own nicety , and the nicety of my friends , have made me what I am , an idle , helpless being .
We never could agree in our choice of a profession .
I always preferred the church , as I still do .
But that was not smart enough for my family .
They recommended the army .
That was a great deal too smart for me .
The law was allowed to be genteel enough ; many young men , who had chambers in the Temple , made a very good appearance in the first circles , and drove about town in very knowing gigs .
But I had no inclination for the law , even in this less abstruse study of it , which my family approved .
As for the navy , it had fashion on its side , but I was too old when the subject was first started to enter it -- and , at length , as there was no necessity for my having any profession at all , as I might be as dashing and expensive without a red coat on my back as with one , idleness was pronounced on the whole to be most advantageous and honourable , and a young man of eighteen is not in general so earnestly bent on being busy as to resist the solicitations of his friends to do nothing .
I was therefore entered at Oxford and have been properly idle ever since ."
" The consequence of which , I suppose , will be ," said Mrs . Dashwood , " since leisure has not promoted your own happiness , that your sons will be brought up to as many pursuits , employments , professions , and trades as Columella ' s ."
" They will be brought up ," said he , in a serious accent , " to be as unlike myself as is possible .
In feeling , in action , in condition , in every thing ."
" Come , come ; this is all an effusion of immediate want of spirits , Edward .
You are in a melancholy humour , and fancy that any one unlike yourself must be happy .
But remember that the pain of parting from friends will be felt by every body at times , whatever be their education or state .
Know your own happiness .
You want nothing but patience -- or give it a more fascinating name , call it hope .
Your mother will secure to you , in time , that independence you are so anxious for ; it is her duty , and it will , it must ere long become her happiness to prevent your whole youth from being wasted in discontent .
How much may not a few months do ?"
" I think ," replied Edward , " that I may defy many months to produce any good to me ."
This desponding turn of mind , though it could not be communicated to Mrs . Dashwood , gave additional pain to them all in the parting , which shortly took place , and left an uncomfortable impression on Elinor ' s feelings especially , which required some trouble and time to subdue .
But as it was her determination to subdue it , and to prevent herself from appearing to suffer more than what all her family suffered on his going away , she did not adopt the method so judiciously employed by Marianne , on a similar occasion , to augment and fix her sorrow , by seeking silence , solitude and idleness .
Their means were as different as their objects , and equally suited to the advancement of each .
Elinor sat down to her drawing - table as soon as he was out of the house , busily employed herself the whole day , neither sought nor avoided the mention of his name , appeared to interest herself almost as much as ever in the general concerns of the family , and if , by this conduct , she did not lessen her own grief , it was at least prevented from unnecessary increase , and her mother and sisters were spared much solicitude on her account .
Such behaviour as this , so exactly the reverse of her own , appeared no more meritorious to Marianne , than her own had seemed faulty to her .
The business of self - command she settled very easily ;-- with strong affections it was impossible , with calm ones it could have no merit .
That her sister ' s affections WERE calm , she dared not deny , though she blushed to acknowledge it ; and of the strength of her own , she gave a very striking proof , by still loving and respecting that sister , in spite of this mortifying conviction .
Without shutting herself up from her family , or leaving the house in determined solitude to avoid them , or lying awake the whole night to indulge meditation , Elinor found every day afforded her leisure enough to think of Edward , and of Edward ' s behaviour , in every possible variety which the different state of her spirits at different times could produce ,-- with tenderness , pity , approbation , censure , and doubt .
There were moments in abundance , when , if not by the absence of her mother and sisters , at least by the nature of their employments , conversation was forbidden among them , and every effect of solitude was produced .
Her mind was inevitably at liberty ; her thoughts could not be chained elsewhere ; and the past and the future , on a subject so interesting , must be before her , must force her attention , and engross her memory , her reflection , and her fancy .
From a reverie of this kind , as she sat at her drawing - table , she was roused one morning , soon after Edward ' s leaving them , by the arrival of company .
She happened to be quite alone .
The closing of the little gate , at the entrance of the green court in front of the house , drew her eyes to the window , and she saw a large party walking up to the door .
Amongst them were Sir John and Lady Middleton and Mrs . Jennings , but there were two others , a gentleman and lady , who were quite unknown to her .
She was sitting near the window , and as soon as Sir John perceived her , he left the rest of the party to the ceremony of knocking at the door , and stepping across the turf , obliged her to open the casement to speak to him , though the space was so short between the door and the window , as to make it hardly possible to speak at one without being heard at the other .
" Well ," said he , " we have brought you some strangers .
How do you like them ?"
" Hush !
they will hear you ."
" Never mind if they do .
It is only the Palmers .
Charlotte is very pretty , I can tell you .
You may see her if you look this way ."
As Elinor was certain of seeing her in a couple of minutes , without taking that liberty , she begged to be excused .
" Where is Marianne ?
Has she run away because we are come ?
I see her instrument is open ."
" She is walking , I believe ."
They were now joined by Mrs . Jennings , who had not patience enough to wait till the door was opened before she told HER story .
She came hallooing to the window , " How do you do , my dear ?
How does Mrs . Dashwood do ?
And where are your sisters ?
What !
all alone !
you will be glad of a little company to sit with you .
I have brought my other son and daughter to see you .
Only think of their coming so suddenly !
I thought I heard a carriage last night , while we were drinking our tea , but it never entered my head that it could be them .
I thought of nothing but whether it might not be Colonel Brandon come back again ; so I said to Sir John , I do think I hear a carriage ; perhaps it is Colonel Brandon come back again "--
Elinor was obliged to turn from her , in the middle of her story , to receive the rest of the party ; Lady Middleton introduced the two strangers ; Mrs . Dashwood and Margaret came down stairs at the same time , and they all sat down to look at one another , while Mrs . Jennings continued her story as she walked through the passage into the parlour , attended by Sir John .
Mrs . Palmer was several years younger than Lady Middleton , and totally unlike her in every respect .
She was short and plump , had a very pretty face , and the finest expression of good humour in it that could possibly be .
Her manners were by no means so elegant as her sister ' s , but they were much more prepossessing .
She came in with a smile , smiled all the time of her visit , except when she laughed , and smiled when she went away .
Her husband was a grave looking young man of five or six and twenty , with an air of more fashion and sense than his wife , but of less willingness to please or be pleased .
He entered the room with a look of self - consequence , slightly bowed to the ladies , without speaking a word , and , after briefly surveying them and their apartments , took up a newspaper from the table , and continued to read it as long as he staid .
Mrs . Palmer , on the contrary , who was strongly endowed by nature with a turn for being uniformly civil and happy , was hardly seated before her admiration of the parlour and every thing in it burst forth .
" Well !
what a delightful room this is !
I never saw anything so charming !
Only think , Mamma , how it is improved since I was here last !
I always thought it such a sweet place , ma ' am !
( turning to Mrs . Dashwood ) but you have made it so charming !
Only look , sister , how delightful every thing is !
How I should like such a house for myself !
Should not you , Mr .
Palmer ?"
Mr . Palmer made her no answer , and did not even raise his eyes from the newspaper .
" Mr . Palmer does not hear me ," said she , laughing ; " he never does sometimes .
It is so ridiculous !"
This was quite a new idea to Mrs . Dashwood ; she had never been used to find wit in the inattention of any one , and could not help looking with surprise at them both .
Mrs . Jennings , in the meantime , talked on as loud as she could , and continued her account of their surprise , the evening before , on seeing their friends , without ceasing till every thing was told .
Mrs . Palmer laughed heartily at the recollection of their astonishment , and every body agreed , two or three times over , that it had been quite an agreeable surprise .
" You may believe how glad we all were to see them ," added Mrs . Jennings , leaning forward towards Elinor , and speaking in a low voice as if she meant to be heard by no one else , though they were seated on different sides of the room ; " but , however , I can ' t help wishing they had not travelled quite so fast , nor made such a long journey of it , for they came all round by London upon account of some business , for you know ( nodding significantly and pointing to her daughter ) it was wrong in her situation .
I wanted her to stay at home and rest this morning , but she would come with us ; she longed so much to see you all !"
Mrs . Palmer laughed , and said it would not do her any harm .
" She expects to be confined in February ," continued Mrs . Jennings .
Lady Middleton could no longer endure such a conversation , and therefore exerted herself to ask Mr . Palmer if there was any news in the paper .
" No , none at all ," he replied , and read on .
" Here comes Marianne ," cried Sir John .
" Now , Palmer , you shall see a monstrous pretty girl ."
He immediately went into the passage , opened the front door , and ushered her in himself .
Mrs . Jennings asked her , as soon as she appeared , if she had not been to Allenham ; and Mrs . Palmer laughed so heartily at the question , as to show she understood it .
Mr . Palmer looked up on her entering the room , stared at her some minutes , and then returned to his newspaper .
Mrs . Palmer ' s eye was now caught by the drawings which hung round the room .
She got up to examine them .
" Oh !
dear , how beautiful these are !
Well !
how delightful !
Do but look , mama , how sweet !
I declare they are quite charming ; I could look at them for ever ."
And then sitting down again , she very soon forgot that there were any such things in the room .
When Lady Middleton rose to go away , Mr . Palmer rose also , laid down the newspaper , stretched himself and looked at them all around .
" My love , have you been asleep ?"
said his wife , laughing .
He made her no answer ; and only observed , after again examining the room , that it was very low pitched , and that the ceiling was crooked .
He then made his bow , and departed with the rest .
Sir John had been very urgent with them all to spend the next day at the park .
Mrs . Dashwood , who did not chuse to dine with them oftener than they dined at the cottage , absolutely refused on her own account ; her daughters might do as they pleased .
But they had no curiosity to see how Mr . and Mrs . Palmer ate their dinner , and no expectation of pleasure from them in any other way .
They attempted , therefore , likewise , to excuse themselves ; the weather was uncertain , and not likely to be good .
But Sir John would not be satisfied -- the carriage should be sent for them and they must come .
Lady Middleton too , though she did not press their mother , pressed them .
Mrs . Jennings and Mrs . Palmer joined their entreaties , all seemed equally anxious to avoid a family party ; and the young ladies were obliged to yield .
" Why should they ask us ?"
said Marianne , as soon as they were gone .
" The rent of this cottage is said to be low ; but we have it on very hard terms , if we are to dine at the park whenever any one is staying either with them , or with us ."
" They mean no less to be civil and kind to us now ," said Elinor , " by these frequent invitations , than by those which we received from them a few weeks ago .
The alteration is not in them , if their parties are grown tedious and dull .
We must look for the change elsewhere ."
CHAPTER 20
As the Miss Dashwoods entered the drawing - room of the park the next day , at one door , Mrs . Palmer came running in at the other , looking as good humoured and merry as before .
She took them all most affectionately by the hand , and expressed great delight in seeing them again .
" I am so glad to see you !"
said she , seating herself between Elinor and Marianne , " for it is so bad a day I was afraid you might not come , which would be a shocking thing , as we go away again tomorrow .
We must go , for the Westons come to us next week you know .
It was quite a sudden thing our coming at all , and I knew nothing of it till the carriage was coming to the door , and then Mr . Palmer asked me if I would go with him to Barton .
He is so droll !
He never tells me any thing !
I am so sorry we cannot stay longer ; however we shall meet again in town very soon , I hope ."
They were obliged to put an end to such an expectation .
" Not go to town !"
cried Mrs . Palmer , with a laugh , " I shall be quite disappointed if you do not .
I could get the nicest house in world for you , next door to ours , in Hanover - square .
You must come , indeed .
I am sure I shall be very happy to chaperon you at any time till I am confined , if Mrs . Dashwood should not like to go into public ."
They thanked her ; but were obliged to resist all her entreaties .
" Oh , my love ," cried Mrs . Palmer to her husband , who just then entered the room --" you must help me to persuade the Miss Dashwoods to go to town this winter ."
Her love made no answer ; and after slightly bowing to the ladies , began complaining of the weather .
" How horrid all this is !"
said he .
" Such weather makes every thing and every body disgusting .
Dullness is as much produced within doors as without , by rain .
It makes one detest all one ' s acquaintance .
What the devil does Sir John mean by not having a billiard room in his house ?
How few people know what comfort is !
Sir John is as stupid as the weather ."
The rest of the company soon dropt in .
" I am afraid , Miss Marianne ," said Sir John , " you have not been able to take your usual walk to Allenham today ."
Marianne looked very grave and said nothing .
" Oh , don ' t be so sly before us ," said Mrs . Palmer ; " for we know all about it , I assure you ; and I admire your taste very much , for I think he is extremely handsome .
We do not live a great way from him in the country , you know .
Not above ten miles , I dare say ."
" Much nearer thirty ," said her husband .
" Ah , well !
there is not much difference .
I never was at his house ; but they say it is a sweet pretty place ."
" As vile a spot as I ever saw in my life ," said Mr . Palmer .
Marianne remained perfectly silent , though her countenance betrayed her interest in what was said .
" Is it very ugly ?"
continued Mrs . Palmer --" then it must be some other place that is so pretty I suppose ."
When they were seated in the dining room , Sir John observed with regret that they were only eight all together .
" My dear ," said he to his lady , " it is very provoking that we should be so few .
Why did not you ask the Gilberts to come to us today ?"
" Did not I tell you , Sir John , when you spoke to me about it before , that it could not be done ?
They dined with us last ."
" You and I , Sir John ," said Mrs . Jennings , " should not stand upon such ceremony ."
" Then you would be very ill - bred ," cried Mr . Palmer .
" My love you contradict every body ," said his wife with her usual laugh .
" Do you know that you are quite rude ?"
" I did not know I contradicted any body in calling your mother ill - bred ."
" Ay , you may abuse me as you please ," said the good - natured old lady , " you have taken Charlotte off my hands , and cannot give her back again .
So there I have the whip hand of you ."
Charlotte laughed heartily to think that her husband could not get rid of her ; and exultingly said , she did not care how cross he was to her , as they must live together .
It was impossible for any one to be more thoroughly good - natured , or more determined to be happy than Mrs . Palmer .
The studied indifference , insolence , and discontent of her husband gave her no pain ; and when he scolded or abused her , she was highly diverted .
" Mr . Palmer is so droll !"
said she , in a whisper , to Elinor .
" He is always out of humour ."
Elinor was not inclined , after a little observation , to give him credit for being so genuinely and unaffectedly ill - natured or ill - bred as he wished to appear .
His temper might perhaps be a little soured by finding , like many others of his sex , that through some unaccountable bias in favour of beauty , he was the husband of a very silly woman ,-- but she knew that this kind of blunder was too common for any sensible man to be lastingly hurt by it .-- It was rather a wish of distinction , she believed , which produced his contemptuous treatment of every body , and his general abuse of every thing before him .
It was the desire of appearing superior to other people .
The motive was too common to be wondered at ; but the means , however they might succeed by establishing his superiority in ill - breeding , were not likely to attach any one to him except his wife .
" Oh , my dear Miss Dashwood ," said Mrs . Palmer soon afterwards , " I have got such a favour to ask of you and your sister .
Will you come and spend some time at Cleveland this Christmas ?
Now , pray do ,-- and come while the Westons are with us .
You cannot think how happy I shall be !
It will be quite delightful !-- My love ," applying to her husband , " don ' t you long to have the Miss Dashwoods come to Cleveland ?"
" Certainly ," he replied , with a sneer --" I came into Devonshire with no other view ."
" There now ,"-- said his lady , " you see Mr . Palmer expects you ; so you cannot refuse to come ."
They both eagerly and resolutely declined her invitation .
" But indeed you must and shall come .
I am sure you will like it of all things .
The Westons will be with us , and it will be quite delightful .
You cannot think what a sweet place Cleveland is ; and we are so gay now , for Mr . Palmer is always going about the country canvassing against the election ; and so many people came to dine with us that I never saw before , it is quite charming !
But , poor fellow !
it is very fatiguing to him !
for he is forced to make every body like him ."
Elinor could hardly keep her countenance as she assented to the hardship of such an obligation .
" How charming it will be ," said Charlotte , " when he is in Parliament !-- won ' t it ?
How I shall laugh !
It will be so ridiculous to see all his letters directed to him with an M . P .-- But do you know , he says , he will never frank for me ?
He declares he won ' t .
Don ' t you , Mr .
Palmer ?"
Mr . Palmer took no notice of her .
" He cannot bear writing , you know ," she continued -- " he says it is quite shocking ."
" No ," said he , " I never said any thing so irrational .
Don ' t palm all your abuses of languages upon me ."
" There now ; you see how droll he is .
This is always the way with him !
Sometimes he won ' t speak to me for half a day together , and then he comes out with something so droll -- all about any thing in the world ."
She surprised Elinor very much as they returned into the drawing - room , by asking her whether she did not like Mr . Palmer excessively .
" Certainly ," said Elinor ; " he seems very agreeable ."
" Well -- I am so glad you do .
I thought you would , he is so pleasant ; and Mr . Palmer is excessively pleased with you and your sisters I can tell you , and you can ' t think how disappointed he will be if you don ' t come to Cleveland .-- I can ' t imagine why you should object to it ."
Elinor was again obliged to decline her invitation ; and by changing the subject , put a stop to her entreaties .
She thought it probable that as they lived in the same county , Mrs . Palmer might be able to give some more particular account of Willoughby ' s general character , than could be gathered from the Middletons ' partial acquaintance with him ; and she was eager to gain from any one , such a confirmation of his merits as might remove the possibility of fear from Marianne .
She began by inquiring if they saw much of Mr . Willoughby at Cleveland , and whether they were intimately acquainted with him .
" Oh dear , yes ; I know him extremely well ," replied Mrs . Palmer ;--" Not that I ever spoke to him , indeed ; but I have seen him for ever in town .
Somehow or other I never happened to be staying at Barton while he was at Allenham .
Mama saw him here once before ;-- but I was with my uncle at Weymouth .
However , I dare say we should have seen a great deal of him in Somersetshire , if it had not happened very unluckily that we should never have been in the country together .
He is very little at Combe , I believe ; but if he were ever so much there , I do not think Mr . Palmer would visit him , for he is in the opposition , you know , and besides it is such a way off .
I know why you inquire about him , very well ; your sister is to marry him .
I am monstrous glad of it , for then I shall have her for a neighbour you know ."
" Upon my word ," replied Elinor , " you know much more of the matter than I do , if you have any reason to expect such a match ."
" Don ' t pretend to deny it , because you know it is what every body talks of .
I assure you I heard of it in my way through town ."
" My dear Mrs .
Palmer !"
" Upon my honour I did .-- I met Colonel Brandon Monday morning in Bond - street , just before we left town , and he told me of it directly ."
" You surprise me very much .
Colonel Brandon tell you of it !
Surely you must be mistaken .
To give such intelligence to a person who could not be interested in it , even if it were true , is not what I should expect Colonel Brandon to do ."
" But I do assure you it was so , for all that , and I will tell you how it happened .
When we met him , he turned back and walked with us ; and so we began talking of my brother and sister , and one thing and another , and I said to him , ' So , Colonel , there is a new family come to Barton cottage , I hear , and mama sends me word they are very pretty , and that one of them is going to be married to Mr . Willoughby of Combe Magna .
Is it true , pray ?
for of course you must know , as you have been in Devonshire so lately .'"
" And what did the Colonel say ?"
" Oh -- he did not say much ; but he looked as if he knew it to be true , so from that moment I set it down as certain .
It will be quite delightful , I declare !
When is it to take place ?"
" Mr . Brandon was very well I hope ?"
" Oh !
yes , quite well ; and so full of your praises , he did nothing but say fine things of you ."
" I am flattered by his commendation .
He seems an excellent man ; and I think him uncommonly pleasing ."
" So do I .-- He is such a charming man , that it is quite a pity he should be so grave and so dull .
Mamma says HE was in love with your sister too .-- I assure you it was a great compliment if he was , for he hardly ever falls in love with any body ."
" Is Mr . Willoughby much known in your part of Somersetshire ?"
said Elinor .
" Oh !
yes , extremely well ; that is , I do not believe many people are acquainted with him , because Combe Magna is so far off ; but they all think him extremely agreeable I assure you .
Nobody is more liked than Mr . Willoughby wherever he goes , and so you may tell your sister .
She is a monstrous lucky girl to get him , upon my honour ; not but that he is much more lucky in getting her , because she is so very handsome and agreeable , that nothing can be good enough for her .
However , I don ' t think her hardly at all handsomer than you , I assure you ; for I think you both excessively pretty , and so does Mr . Palmer too I am sure , though we could not get him to own it last night ."
Mrs . Palmer ' s information respecting Willoughby was not very material ; but any testimony in his favour , however small , was pleasing to her .
" I am so glad we are got acquainted at last ," continued Charlotte .--" And now I hope we shall always be great friends .
You can ' t think how much I longed to see you !
It is so delightful that you should live at the cottage !
Nothing can be like it , to be sure !
And I am so glad your sister is going to be well married !
I hope you will be a great deal at Combe Magna .
It is a sweet place , by all accounts ."
" You have been long acquainted with Colonel Brandon , have not you ?"
" Yes , a great while ; ever since my sister married .-- He was a particular friend of Sir John ' s .
I believe ," she added in a low voice , " he would have been very glad to have had me , if he could .
Sir John and Lady Middleton wished it very much .
But mama did not think the match good enough for me , otherwise Sir John would have mentioned it to the Colonel , and we should have been married immediately ."
" Did not Colonel Brandon know of Sir John ' s proposal to your mother before it was made ?
Had he never owned his affection to yourself ?"
" Oh , no ; but if mama had not objected to it , I dare say he would have liked it of all things .
He had not seen me then above twice , for it was before I left school .
However , I am much happier as I am .
Mr . Palmer is the kind of man I like ."
CHAPTER 21
The Palmers returned to Cleveland the next day , and the two families at Barton were again left to entertain each other .
But this did not last long ; Elinor had hardly got their last visitors out of her head , had hardly done wondering at Charlotte ' s being so happy without a cause , at Mr . Palmer ' s acting so simply , with good abilities , and at the strange unsuitableness which often existed between husband and wife , before Sir John ' s and Mrs . Jennings ' s active zeal in the cause of society , procured her some other new acquaintance to see and observe .
In a morning ' s excursion to Exeter , they had met with two young ladies , whom Mrs . Jennings had the satisfaction of discovering to be her relations , and this was enough for Sir John to invite them directly to the park , as soon as their present engagements at Exeter were over .
Their engagements at Exeter instantly gave way before such an invitation , and Lady Middleton was thrown into no little alarm on the return of Sir John , by hearing that she was very soon to receive a visit from two girls whom she had never seen in her life , and of whose elegance ,-- whose tolerable gentility even , she could have no proof ; for the assurances of her husband and mother on that subject went for nothing at all .
Their being her relations too made it so much the worse ; and Mrs . Jennings ' s attempts at consolation were therefore unfortunately founded , when she advised her daughter not to care about their being so fashionable ; because they were all cousins and must put up with one another .
As it was impossible , however , now to prevent their coming , Lady Middleton resigned herself to the idea of it , with all the philosophy of a well - bred woman , contenting herself with merely giving her husband a gentle reprimand on the subject five or six times every day .
The young ladies arrived : their appearance was by no means ungenteel or unfashionable .
Their dress was very smart , their manners very civil , they were delighted with the house , and in raptures with the furniture , and they happened to be so doatingly fond of children that Lady Middleton ' s good opinion was engaged in their favour before they had been an hour at the Park .
She declared them to be very agreeable girls indeed , which for her ladyship was enthusiastic admiration .
Sir John ' s confidence in his own judgment rose with this animated praise , and he set off directly for the cottage to tell the Miss Dashwoods of the Miss Steeles ' arrival , and to assure them of their being the sweetest girls in the world .
From such commendation as this , however , there was not much to be learned ; Elinor well knew that the sweetest girls in the world were to be met with in every part of England , under every possible variation of form , face , temper and understanding .
Sir John wanted the whole family to walk to the Park directly and look at his guests .
Benevolent , philanthropic man !
It was painful to him even to keep a third cousin to himself .
" Do come now ," said he --" pray come -- you must come -- I declare you shall come -- You can ' t think how you will like them .
Lucy is monstrous pretty , and so good humoured and agreeable !
The children are all hanging about her already , as if she was an old acquaintance .
And they both long to see you of all things , for they have heard at Exeter that you are the most beautiful creatures in the world ; and I have told them it is all very true , and a great deal more .
You will be delighted with them I am sure .
They have brought the whole coach full of playthings for the children .
How can you be so cross as not to come ?
Why they are your cousins , you know , after a fashion .
YOU are my cousins , and they are my wife ' s , so you must be related ."
But Sir John could not prevail .
He could only obtain a promise of their calling at the Park within a day or two , and then left them in amazement at their indifference , to walk home and boast anew of their attractions to the Miss Steeles , as he had been already boasting of the Miss Steeles to them .
When their promised visit to the Park and consequent introduction to these young ladies took place , they found in the appearance of the eldest , who was nearly thirty , with a very plain and not a sensible face , nothing to admire ; but in the other , who was not more than two or three and twenty , they acknowledged considerable beauty ; her features were pretty , and she had a sharp quick eye , and a smartness of air , which though it did not give actual elegance or grace , gave distinction to her person .-- Their manners were particularly civil , and Elinor soon allowed them credit for some kind of sense , when she saw with what constant and judicious attention they were making themselves agreeable to Lady Middleton .
With her children they were in continual raptures , extolling their beauty , courting their notice , and humouring their whims ; and such of their time as could be spared from the importunate demands which this politeness made on it , was spent in admiration of whatever her ladyship was doing , if she happened to be doing any thing , or in taking patterns of some elegant new dress , in which her appearance the day before had thrown them into unceasing delight .
Fortunately for those who pay their court through such foibles , a fond mother , though , in pursuit of praise for her children , the most rapacious of human beings , is likewise the most credulous ; her demands are exorbitant ; but she will swallow any thing ; and the excessive affection and endurance of the Miss Steeles towards her offspring were viewed therefore by Lady Middleton without the smallest surprise or distrust .
She saw with maternal complacency all the impertinent encroachments and mischievous tricks to which her cousins submitted .
She saw their sashes untied , their hair pulled about their ears , their work - bags searched , and their knives and scissors stolen away , and felt no doubt of its being a reciprocal enjoyment .
It suggested no other surprise than that Elinor and Marianne should sit so composedly by , without claiming a share in what was passing .
" John is in such spirits today !"
said she , on his taking Miss Steeles ' s pocket handkerchief , and throwing it out of window --" He is full of monkey tricks ."
And soon afterwards , on the second boy ' s violently pinching one of the same lady ' s fingers , she fondly observed , " How playful William is !"
" And here is my sweet little Annamaria ," she added , tenderly caressing a little girl of three years old , who had not made a noise for the last two minutes ; " And she is always so gentle and quiet -- Never was there such a quiet little thing !"
But unfortunately in bestowing these embraces , a pin in her ladyship ' s head dress slightly scratching the child ' s neck , produced from this pattern of gentleness such violent screams , as could hardly be outdone by any creature professedly noisy .
The mother ' s consternation was excessive ; but it could not surpass the alarm of the Miss Steeles , and every thing was done by all three , in so critical an emergency , which affection could suggest as likely to assuage the agonies of the little sufferer .
She was seated in her mother ' s lap , covered with kisses , her wound bathed with lavender - water , by one of the Miss Steeles , who was on her knees to attend her , and her mouth stuffed with sugar plums by the other .
With such a reward for her tears , the child was too wise to cease crying .
She still screamed and sobbed lustily , kicked her two brothers for offering to touch her , and all their united soothings were ineffectual till Lady Middleton luckily remembering that in a scene of similar distress last week , some apricot marmalade had been successfully applied for a bruised temple , the same remedy was eagerly proposed for this unfortunate scratch , and a slight intermission of screams in the young lady on hearing it , gave them reason to hope that it would not be rejected .-- She was carried out of the room therefore in her mother ' s arms , in quest of this medicine , and as the two boys chose to follow , though earnestly entreated by their mother to stay behind , the four young ladies were left in a quietness which the room had not known for many hours .
" Poor little creatures !"
said Miss Steele , as soon as they were gone .
" It might have been a very sad accident ."
" Yet I hardly know how ," cried Marianne , " unless it had been under totally different circumstances .
But this is the usual way of heightening alarm , where there is nothing to be alarmed at in reality ."
" What a sweet woman Lady Middleton is !"
said Lucy Steele .
Marianne was silent ; it was impossible for her to say what she did not feel , however trivial the occasion ; and upon Elinor therefore the whole task of telling lies when politeness required it , always fell .
She did her best when thus called on , by speaking of Lady Middleton with more warmth than she felt , though with far less than Miss Lucy .
" And Sir John too ," cried the elder sister , " what a charming man he is !"
Here too , Miss Dashwood ' s commendation , being only simple and just , came in without any eclat .
She merely observed that he was perfectly good humoured and friendly .
" And what a charming little family they have !
I never saw such fine children in my life .-- I declare I quite doat upon them already , and indeed I am always distractedly fond of children ."
" I should guess so ," said Elinor , with a smile , " from what I have witnessed this morning ."
" I have a notion ," said Lucy , " you think the little Middletons rather too much indulged ; perhaps they may be the outside of enough ; but it is so natural in Lady Middleton ; and for my part , I love to see children full of life and spirits ; I cannot bear them if they are tame and quiet ."
" I confess ," replied Elinor , " that while I am at Barton Park , I never think of tame and quiet children with any abhorrence ."
A short pause succeeded this speech , which was first broken by Miss Steele , who seemed very much disposed for conversation , and who now said rather abruptly , " And how do you like Devonshire , Miss Dashwood ?
I suppose you were very sorry to leave Sussex ."
In some surprise at the familiarity of this question , or at least of the manner in which it was spoken , Elinor replied that she was .
" Norland is a prodigious beautiful place , is not it ?"
added Miss Steele .
" We have heard Sir John admire it excessively ," said Lucy , who seemed to think some apology necessary for the freedom of her sister .
" I think every one MUST admire it ," replied Elinor , " who ever saw the place ; though it is not to be supposed that any one can estimate its beauties as we do ."
" And had you a great many smart beaux there ?
I suppose you have not so many in this part of the world ; for my part , I think they are a vast addition always ."
" But why should you think ," said Lucy , looking ashamed of her sister , " that there are not as many genteel young men in Devonshire as Sussex ?"
" Nay , my dear , I ' m sure I don ' t pretend to say that there an ' t .
I ' m sure there ' s a vast many smart beaux in Exeter ; but you know , how could I tell what smart beaux there might be about Norland ; and I was only afraid the Miss Dashwoods might find it dull at Barton , if they had not so many as they used to have .
But perhaps you young ladies may not care about the beaux , and had as lief be without them as with them .
For my part , I think they are vastly agreeable , provided they dress smart and behave civil .
But I can ' t bear to see them dirty and nasty .
Now there ' s Mr . Rose at Exeter , a prodigious smart young man , quite a beau , clerk to Mr . Simpson , you know , and yet if you do but meet him of a morning , he is not fit to be seen .-- I suppose your brother was quite a beau , Miss Dashwood , before he married , as he was so rich ?"
" Upon my word ," replied Elinor , " I cannot tell you , for I do not perfectly comprehend the meaning of the word .
But this I can say , that if he ever was a beau before he married , he is one still for there is not the smallest alteration in him ."
" Oh !
dear !
one never thinks of married men ' s being beaux -- they have something else to do ."
" Lord !
Anne ," cried her sister , " you can talk of nothing but beaux ;-- you will make Miss Dashwood believe you think of nothing else ."
And then to turn the discourse , she began admiring the house and the furniture .
This specimen of the Miss Steeles was enough .
The vulgar freedom and folly of the eldest left her no recommendation , and as Elinor was not blinded by the beauty , or the shrewd look of the youngest , to her want of real elegance and artlessness , she left the house without any wish of knowing them better .
Not so the Miss Steeles .-- They came from Exeter , well provided with admiration for the use of Sir John Middleton , his family , and all his relations , and no niggardly proportion was now dealt out to his fair cousins , whom they declared to be the most beautiful , elegant , accomplished , and agreeable girls they had ever beheld , and with whom they were particularly anxious to be better acquainted .-- And to be better acquainted therefore , Elinor soon found was their inevitable lot , for as Sir John was entirely on the side of the Miss Steeles , their party would be too strong for opposition , and that kind of intimacy must be submitted to , which consists of sitting an hour or two together in the same room almost every day .
Sir John could do no more ; but he did not know that any more was required : to be together was , in his opinion , to be intimate , and while his continual schemes for their meeting were effectual , he had not a doubt of their being established friends .
To do him justice , he did every thing in his power to promote their unreserve , by making the Miss Steeles acquainted with whatever he knew or supposed of his cousins ' situations in the most delicate particulars ,-- and Elinor had not seen them more than twice , before the eldest of them wished her joy on her sister ' s having been so lucky as to make a conquest of a very smart beau since she came to Barton .
"' Twill be a fine thing to have her married so young to be sure ," said she , " and I hear he is quite a beau , and prodigious handsome .
And I hope you may have as good luck yourself soon ,-- but perhaps you may have a friend in the corner already ."
Elinor could not suppose that Sir John would be more nice in proclaiming his suspicions of her regard for Edward , than he had been with respect to Marianne ; indeed it was rather his favourite joke of the two , as being somewhat newer and more conjectural ; and since Edward ' s visit , they had never dined together without his drinking to her best affections with so much significancy and so many nods and winks , as to excite general attention .
The letter F -- had been likewise invariably brought forward , and found productive of such countless jokes , that its character as the wittiest letter in the alphabet had been long established with Elinor .
The Miss Steeles , as she expected , had now all the benefit of these jokes , and in the eldest of them they raised a curiosity to know the name of the gentleman alluded to , which , though often impertinently expressed , was perfectly of a piece with her general inquisitiveness into the concerns of their family .
But Sir John did not sport long with the curiosity which he delighted to raise , for he had at least as much pleasure in telling the name , as Miss Steele had in hearing it .
" His name is Ferrars ," said he , in a very audible whisper ; " but pray do not tell it , for it ' s a great secret ."
" Ferrars !"
repeated Miss Steele ; " Mr . Ferrars is the happy man , is he ?
What !
your sister - in - law ' s brother , Miss Dashwood ?
a very agreeable young man to be sure ; I know him very well ."
" How can you say so , Anne ?"
cried Lucy , who generally made an amendment to all her sister ' s assertions .
" Though we have seen him once or twice at my uncle ' s , it is rather too much to pretend to know him very well ."
Elinor heard all this with attention and surprise .
" And who was this uncle ?
Where did he live ?
How came they acquainted ?"
She wished very much to have the subject continued , though she did not chuse to join in it herself ; but nothing more of it was said , and for the first time in her life , she thought Mrs . Jennings deficient either in curiosity after petty information , or in a disposition to communicate it .
The manner in which Miss Steele had spoken of Edward , increased her curiosity ; for it struck her as being rather ill - natured , and suggested the suspicion of that lady ' s knowing , or fancying herself to know something to his disadvantage .-- But her curiosity was unavailing , for no farther notice was taken of Mr . Ferrars ' s name by Miss Steele when alluded to , or even openly mentioned by Sir John .
CHAPTER 22
Marianne , who had never much toleration for any thing like impertinence , vulgarity , inferiority of parts , or even difference of taste from herself , was at this time particularly ill - disposed , from the state of her spirits , to be pleased with the Miss Steeles , or to encourage their advances ; and to the invariable coldness of her behaviour towards them , which checked every endeavour at intimacy on their side , Elinor principally attributed that preference of herself which soon became evident in the manners of both , but especially of Lucy , who missed no opportunity of engaging her in conversation , or of striving to improve their acquaintance by an easy and frank communication of her sentiments .
Lucy was naturally clever ; her remarks were often just and amusing ; and as a companion for half an hour Elinor frequently found her agreeable ; but her powers had received no aid from education : she was ignorant and illiterate ; and her deficiency of all mental improvement , her want of information in the most common particulars , could not be concealed from Miss Dashwood , in spite of her constant endeavour to appear to advantage .
Elinor saw , and pitied her for , the neglect of abilities which education might have rendered so respectable ; but she saw , with less tenderness of feeling , the thorough want of delicacy , of rectitude , and integrity of mind , which her attentions , her assiduities , her flatteries at the Park betrayed ; and she could have no lasting satisfaction in the company of a person who joined insincerity with ignorance ; whose want of instruction prevented their meeting in conversation on terms of equality , and whose conduct toward others made every shew of attention and deference towards herself perfectly valueless .
" You will think my question an odd one , I dare say ," said Lucy to her one day , as they were walking together from the park to the cottage --" but pray , are you personally acquainted with your sister - in - law ' s mother , Mrs .
Ferrars ?"
Elinor DID think the question a very odd one , and her countenance expressed it , as she answered that she had never seen Mrs . Ferrars .
" Indeed !"
replied Lucy ; " I wonder at that , for I thought you must have seen her at Norland sometimes .
Then , perhaps , you cannot tell me what sort of a woman she is ?"
" No ," returned Elinor , cautious of giving her real opinion of Edward ' s mother , and not very desirous of satisfying what seemed impertinent curiosity -- " I know nothing of her ."
" I am sure you think me very strange , for enquiring about her in such a way ," said Lucy , eyeing Elinor attentively as she spoke ; " but perhaps there may be reasons -- I wish I might venture ; but however I hope you will do me the justice of believing that I do not mean to be impertinent ."
Elinor made her a civil reply , and they walked on for a few minutes in silence .
It was broken by Lucy , who renewed the subject again by saying , with some hesitation ,
" I cannot bear to have you think me impertinently curious .
I am sure I would rather do any thing in the world than be thought so by a person whose good opinion is so well worth having as yours .
And I am sure I should not have the smallest fear of trusting YOU ; indeed , I should be very glad of your advice how to manage in such and uncomfortable situation as I am ; but , however , there is no occasion to trouble YOU .
I am sorry you do not happen to know Mrs .
Ferrars ."
" I am sorry I do NOT ," said Elinor , in great astonishment , " if it could be of any use to YOU to know my opinion of her .
But really I never understood that you were at all connected with that family , and therefore I am a little surprised , I confess , at so serious an inquiry into her character ."
" I dare say you are , and I am sure I do not at all wonder at it .
But if I dared tell you all , you would not be so much surprised .
Mrs . Ferrars is certainly nothing to me at present -- but the time MAY come -- how soon it will come must depend upon herself -- when we may be very intimately connected ."
She looked down as she said this , amiably bashful , with only one side glance at her companion to observe its effect on her .
" Good heavens !"
cried Elinor , " what do you mean ?
Are you acquainted with Mr . Robert Ferrars ?
Can you be ?"
And she did not feel much delighted with the idea of such a sister - in - law .
" No ," replied Lucy , " not to Mr . ROBERT Ferrars -- I never saw him in my life ; but ," fixing her eyes upon Elinor , " to his eldest brother ."
What felt Elinor at that moment ?
Astonishment , that would have been as painful as it was strong , had not an immediate disbelief of the assertion attended it .
She turned towards Lucy in silent amazement , unable to divine the reason or object of such a declaration ; and though her complexion varied , she stood firm in incredulity , and felt in no danger of an hysterical fit , or a swoon .
" You may well be surprised ," continued Lucy ; " for to be sure you could have had no idea of it before ; for I dare say he never dropped the smallest hint of it to you or any of your family ; because it was always meant to be a great secret , and I am sure has been faithfully kept so by me to this hour .
Not a soul of all my relations know of it but Anne , and I never should have mentioned it to you , if I had not felt the greatest dependence in the world upon your secrecy ; and I really thought my behaviour in asking so many questions about Mrs . Ferrars must seem so odd , that it ought to be explained .
And I do not think Mr . Ferrars can be displeased , when he knows I have trusted you , because I know he has the highest opinion in the world of all your family , and looks upon yourself and the other Miss Dashwoods quite as his own sisters ."
-- She paused .
Elinor for a few moments remained silent .
Her astonishment at what she heard was at first too great for words ; but at length forcing herself to speak , and to speak cautiously , she said , with calmness of manner , which tolerably well concealed her surprise and solicitude -- " May I ask if your engagement is of long standing ?"
" We have been engaged these four years ."
" Four years !"
" Yes ."
Elinor , though greatly shocked , still felt unable to believe it .
" I did not know ," said she , " that you were even acquainted till the other day ."
" Our acquaintance , however , is of many years date .
He was under my uncle ' s care , you know , a considerable while ."
" Your uncle !"
" Yes ; Mr . Pratt .
Did you never hear him talk of Mr .
Pratt ?"
" I think I have ," replied Elinor , with an exertion of spirits , which increased with her increase of emotion .
" He was four years with my uncle , who lives at Longstaple , near Plymouth .
It was there our acquaintance begun , for my sister and me was often staying with my uncle , and it was there our engagement was formed , though not till a year after he had quitted as a pupil ; but he was almost always with us afterwards .
I was very unwilling to enter into it , as you may imagine , without the knowledge and approbation of his mother ; but I was too young , and loved him too well , to be so prudent as I ought to have been .-- Though you do not know him so well as me , Miss Dashwood , you must have seen enough of him to be sensible he is very capable of making a woman sincerely attached to him ."
" Certainly ," answered Elinor , without knowing what she said ; but after a moment ' s reflection , she added , with revived security of Edward ' s honour and love , and her companion ' s falsehood --" Engaged to Mr . Edward Ferrars !-- I confess myself so totally surprised at what you tell me , that really -- I beg your pardon ; but surely there must be some mistake of person or name .
We cannot mean the same Mr .
Ferrars ."
" We can mean no other ," cried Lucy , smiling .
" Mr . Edward Ferrars , the eldest son of Mrs . Ferrars , of Park Street , and brother of your sister - in - law , Mrs . John Dashwood , is the person I mean ; you must allow that I am not likely to be deceived as to the name of the man on who all my happiness depends ."
" It is strange ," replied Elinor , in a most painful perplexity , " that I should never have heard him even mention your name ."
" No ; considering our situation , it was not strange .
Our first care has been to keep the matter secret .-- You knew nothing of me , or my family , and , therefore , there could be no OCCASION for ever mentioning my name to you ; and , as he was always particularly afraid of his sister ' s suspecting any thing , THAT was reason enough for his not mentioning it ."
She was silent .-- Elinor ' s security sunk ; but her self - command did not sink with it .
" Four years you have been engaged ," said she with a firm voice .
" Yes ; and heaven knows how much longer we may have to wait .
Poor Edward !
It puts him quite out of heart ."
Then taking a small miniature from her pocket , she added , " To prevent the possibility of mistake , be so good as to look at this face .
It does not do him justice , to be sure , but yet I think you cannot be deceived as to the person it was drew for .-- I have had it above these three years ."
She put it into her hands as she spoke ; and when Elinor saw the painting , whatever other doubts her fear of a too hasty decision , or her wish of detecting falsehood might suffer to linger in her mind , she could have none of its being Edward ' s face .
She returned it almost instantly , acknowledging the likeness .
" I have never been able ," continued Lucy , " to give him my picture in return , which I am very much vexed at , for he has been always so anxious to get it !
But I am determined to set for it the very first opportunity ."
" You are quite in the right ," replied Elinor calmly .
They then proceeded a few paces in silence .
Lucy spoke first .
" I am sure ," said she , " I have no doubt in the world of your faithfully keeping this secret , because you must know of what importance it is to us , not to have it reach his mother ; for she would never approve of it , I dare say .
I shall have no fortune , and I fancy she is an exceeding proud woman ."
" I certainly did not seek your confidence ," said Elinor ; " but you do me no more than justice in imagining that I may be depended on .
Your secret is safe with me ; but pardon me if I express some surprise at so unnecessary a communication .
You must at least have felt that my being acquainted with it could not add to its safety ."
As she said this , she looked earnestly at Lucy , hoping to discover something in her countenance ; perhaps the falsehood of the greatest part of what she had been saying ; but Lucy ' s countenance suffered no change .
" I was afraid you would think I was taking a great liberty with you ," said she , " in telling you all this .
I have not known you long to be sure , personally at least , but I have known you and all your family by description a great while ; and as soon as I saw you , I felt almost as if you was an old acquaintance .
Besides in the present case , I really thought some explanation was due to you after my making such particular inquiries about Edward ' s mother ; and I am so unfortunate , that I have not a creature whose advice I can ask .
Anne is the only person that knows of it , and she has no judgment at all ; indeed , she does me a great deal more harm than good , for I am in constant fear of her betraying me .
She does not know how to hold her tongue , as you must perceive , and I am sure I was in the greatest fright in the world t ' other day , when Edward ' s name was mentioned by Sir John , lest she should out with it all .
You can ' t think how much I go through in my mind from it altogether .
I only wonder that I am alive after what I have suffered for Edward ' s sake these last four years .
Every thing in such suspense and uncertainty ; and seeing him so seldom -- we can hardly meet above twice a - year .
I am sure I wonder my heart is not quite broke ."
Here she took out her handkerchief ; but Elinor did not feel very compassionate .
" Sometimes ."
continued Lucy , after wiping her eyes , " I think whether it would not be better for us both to break off the matter entirely ."
As she said this , she looked directly at her companion .
" But then at other times I have not resolution enough for it .-- I cannot bear the thoughts of making him so miserable , as I know the very mention of such a thing would do .
And on my own account too -- so dear as he is to me -- I don ' t think I could be equal to it .
What would you advise me to do in such a case , Miss Dashwood ?
What would you do yourself ?"
" Pardon me ," replied Elinor , startled by the question ; " but I can give you no advice under such circumstances .
Your own judgment must direct you ."
" To be sure ," continued Lucy , after a few minutes silence on both sides , " his mother must provide for him sometime or other ; but poor Edward is so cast down by it !
Did you not think him dreadful low - spirited when he was at Barton ?
He was so miserable when he left us at Longstaple , to go to you , that I was afraid you would think him quite ill ."
" Did he come from your uncle ' s , then , when he visited us ?"
" Oh , yes ; he had been staying a fortnight with us .
Did you think he came directly from town ?"
" No ," replied Elinor , most feelingly sensible of every fresh circumstance in favour of Lucy ' s veracity ; " I remember he told us , that he had been staying a fortnight with some friends near Plymouth ."
She remembered too , her own surprise at the time , at his mentioning nothing farther of those friends , at his total silence with respect even to their names .
" Did not you think him sadly out of spirits ?"
repeated Lucy .
" We did , indeed , particularly so when he first arrived ."
" I begged him to exert himself for fear you should suspect what was the matter ; but it made him so melancholy , not being able to stay more than a fortnight with us , and seeing me so much affected .-- Poor fellow !-- I am afraid it is just the same with him now ; for he writes in wretched spirits .
I heard from him just before I left Exeter ;" taking a letter from her pocket and carelessly showing the direction to Elinor .
" You know his hand , I dare say , a charming one it is ; but that is not written so well as usual .-- He was tired , I dare say , for he had just filled the sheet to me as full as possible ."
Elinor saw that it WAS his hand , and she could doubt no longer .
This picture , she had allowed herself to believe , might have been accidentally obtained ; it might not have been Edward ' s gift ; but a correspondence between them by letter , could subsist only under a positive engagement , could be authorised by nothing else ; for a few moments , she was almost overcome -- her heart sunk within her , and she could hardly stand ; but exertion was indispensably necessary ; and she struggled so resolutely against the oppression of her feelings , that her success was speedy , and for the time complete .
" Writing to each other ," said Lucy , returning the letter into her pocket , " is the only comfort we have in such long separations .
Yes , I have one other comfort in his picture , but poor Edward has not even THAT .
If he had but my picture , he says he should be easy .
I gave him a lock of my hair set in a ring when he was at Longstaple last , and that was some comfort to him , he said , but not equal to a picture .
Perhaps you might notice the ring when you saw him ?"
" I did ," said Elinor , with a composure of voice , under which was concealed an emotion and distress beyond any thing she had ever felt before .
She was mortified , shocked , confounded .
Fortunately for her , they had now reached the cottage , and the conversation could be continued no farther .
After sitting with them a few minutes , the Miss Steeles returned to the Park , and Elinor was then at liberty to think and be wretched .
[ At this point in the first and second editions , Volume 1 ends .]
CHAPTER 23
However small Elinor ' s general dependence on Lucy ' s veracity might be , it was impossible for her on serious reflection to suspect it in the present case , where no temptation could be answerable to the folly of inventing a falsehood of such a description .
What Lucy had asserted to be true , therefore , Elinor could not , dared not longer doubt ; supported as it was too on every side by such probabilities and proofs , and contradicted by nothing but her own wishes .
Their opportunity of acquaintance in the house of Mr . Pratt was a foundation for the rest , at once indisputable and alarming ; and Edward ' s visit near Plymouth , his melancholy state of mind , his dissatisfaction at his own prospects , his uncertain behaviour towards herself , the intimate knowledge of the Miss Steeles as to Norland and their family connections , which had often surprised her , the picture , the letter , the ring , formed altogether such a body of evidence , as overcame every fear of condemning him unfairly , and established as a fact , which no partiality could set aside , his ill - treatment of herself .-- Her resentment of such behaviour , her indignation at having been its dupe , for a short time made her feel only for herself ; but other ideas , other considerations , soon arose .
Had Edward been intentionally deceiving her ?
Had he feigned a regard for her which he did not feel ?
Was his engagement to Lucy an engagement of the heart ?
No ; whatever it might once have been , she could not believe it such at present .
His affection was all her own .
She could not be deceived in that .
Her mother , sisters , Fanny , all had been conscious of his regard for her at Norland ; it was not an illusion of her own vanity .
He certainly loved her .
What a softener of the heart was this persuasion !
How much could it not tempt her to forgive !
He had been blamable , highly blamable , in remaining at Norland after he first felt her influence over him to be more than it ought to be .
In that , he could not be defended ; but if he had injured her , how much more had he injured himself ; if her case were pitiable , his was hopeless .
His imprudence had made her miserable for a while ; but it seemed to have deprived himself of all chance of ever being otherwise .
She might in time regain tranquillity ; but HE , what had he to look forward to ?
Could he ever be tolerably happy with Lucy Steele ; could he , were his affection for herself out of the question , with his integrity , his delicacy , and well - informed mind , be satisfied with a wife like her -- illiterate , artful , and selfish ?
The youthful infatuation of nineteen would naturally blind him to every thing but her beauty and good nature ; but the four succeeding years -- years , which if rationally spent , give such improvement to the understanding , must have opened his eyes to her defects of education , while the same period of time , spent on her side in inferior society and more frivolous pursuits , had perhaps robbed her of that simplicity which might once have given an interesting character to her beauty .
If in the supposition of his seeking to marry herself , his difficulties from his mother had seemed great , how much greater were they now likely to be , when the object of his engagement was undoubtedly inferior in connections , and probably inferior in fortune to herself .
These difficulties , indeed , with a heart so alienated from Lucy , might not press very hard upon his patience ; but melancholy was the state of the person by whom the expectation of family opposition and unkindness , could be felt as a relief !
As these considerations occurred to her in painful succession , she wept for him , more than for herself .
Supported by the conviction of having done nothing to merit her present unhappiness , and consoled by the belief that Edward had done nothing to forfeit her esteem , she thought she could even now , under the first smart of the heavy blow , command herself enough to guard every suspicion of the truth from her mother and sisters .
And so well was she able to answer her own expectations , that when she joined them at dinner only two hours after she had first suffered the extinction of all her dearest hopes , no one would have supposed from the appearance of the sisters , that Elinor was mourning in secret over obstacles which must divide her for ever from the object of her love , and that Marianne was internally dwelling on the perfections of a man , of whose whole heart she felt thoroughly possessed , and whom she expected to see in every carriage which drove near their house .
The necessity of concealing from her mother and Marianne , what had been entrusted in confidence to herself , though it obliged her to unceasing exertion , was no aggravation of Elinor ' s distress .
On the contrary it was a relief to her , to be spared the communication of what would give such affliction to them , and to be saved likewise from hearing that condemnation of Edward , which would probably flow from the excess of their partial affection for herself , and which was more than she felt equal to support .
From their counsel , or their conversation , she knew she could receive no assistance , their tenderness and sorrow must add to her distress , while her self - command would neither receive encouragement from their example nor from their praise .
She was stronger alone , and her own good sense so well supported her , that her firmness was as unshaken , her appearance of cheerfulness as invariable , as with regrets so poignant and so fresh , it was possible for them to be .
Much as she had suffered from her first conversation with Lucy on the subject , she soon felt an earnest wish of renewing it ; and this for more reasons than one .
She wanted to hear many particulars of their engagement repeated again , she wanted more clearly to understand what Lucy really felt for Edward , whether there were any sincerity in her declaration of tender regard for him , and she particularly wanted to convince Lucy , by her readiness to enter on the matter again , and her calmness in conversing on it , that she was no otherwise interested in it than as a friend , which she very much feared her involuntary agitation , in their morning discourse , must have left at least doubtful .
That Lucy was disposed to be jealous of her appeared very probable : it was plain that Edward had always spoken highly in her praise , not merely from Lucy ' s assertion , but from her venturing to trust her on so short a personal acquaintance , with a secret so confessedly and evidently important .
And even Sir John ' s joking intelligence must have had some weight .
But indeed , while Elinor remained so well assured within herself of being really beloved by Edward , it required no other consideration of probabilities to make it natural that Lucy should be jealous ; and that she was so , her very confidence was a proof .
What other reason for the disclosure of the affair could there be , but that Elinor might be informed by it of Lucy ' s superior claims on Edward , and be taught to avoid him in future ?
She had little difficulty in understanding thus much of her rival ' s intentions , and while she was firmly resolved to act by her as every principle of honour and honesty directed , to combat her own affection for Edward and to see him as little as possible ; she could not deny herself the comfort of endeavouring to convince Lucy that her heart was unwounded .
And as she could now have nothing more painful to hear on the subject than had already been told , she did not mistrust her own ability of going through a repetition of particulars with composure .
But it was not immediately that an opportunity of doing so could be commanded , though Lucy was as well disposed as herself to take advantage of any that occurred ; for the weather was not often fine enough to allow of their joining in a walk , where they might most easily separate themselves from the others ; and though they met at least every other evening either at the park or cottage , and chiefly at the former , they could not be supposed to meet for the sake of conversation .
Such a thought would never enter either Sir John or Lady Middleton ' s head ; and therefore very little leisure was ever given for a general chat , and none at all for particular discourse .
They met for the sake of eating , drinking , and laughing together , playing at cards , or consequences , or any other game that was sufficiently noisy .
One or two meetings of this kind had taken place , without affording Elinor any chance of engaging Lucy in private , when Sir John called at the cottage one morning , to beg , in the name of charity , that they would all dine with Lady Middleton that day , as he was obliged to attend the club at Exeter , and she would otherwise be quite alone , except her mother and the two Miss Steeles .
Elinor , who foresaw a fairer opening for the point she had in view , in such a party as this was likely to be , more at liberty among themselves under the tranquil and well - bred direction of Lady Middleton than when her husband united them together in one noisy purpose , immediately accepted the invitation ; Margaret , with her mother ' s permission , was equally compliant , and Marianne , though always unwilling to join any of their parties , was persuaded by her mother , who could not bear to have her seclude herself from any chance of amusement , to go likewise .
The young ladies went , and Lady Middleton was happily preserved from the frightful solitude which had threatened her .
The insipidity of the meeting was exactly such as Elinor had expected ; it produced not one novelty of thought or expression , and nothing could be less interesting than the whole of their discourse both in the dining parlour and drawing room : to the latter , the children accompanied them , and while they remained there , she was too well convinced of the impossibility of engaging Lucy ' s attention to attempt it .
They quitted it only with the removal of the tea - things .
The card - table was then placed , and Elinor began to wonder at herself for having ever entertained a hope of finding time for conversation at the park .
They all rose up in preparation for a round game .
" I am glad ," said Lady Middleton to Lucy , " you are not going to finish poor little Annamaria ' s basket this evening ; for I am sure it must hurt your eyes to work filigree by candlelight .
And we will make the dear little love some amends for her disappointment to - morrow , and then I hope she will not much mind it ."
This hint was enough , Lucy recollected herself instantly and replied , " Indeed you are very much mistaken , Lady Middleton ; I am only waiting to know whether you can make your party without me , or I should have been at my filigree already .
I would not disappoint the little angel for all the world : and if you want me at the card - table now , I am resolved to finish the basket after supper ."
" You are very good , I hope it won ' t hurt your eyes -- will you ring the bell for some working candles ?
My poor little girl would be sadly disappointed , I know , if the basket was not finished tomorrow , for though I told her it certainly would not , I am sure she depends upon having it done ."
Lucy directly drew her work table near her and reseated herself with an alacrity and cheerfulness which seemed to infer that she could taste no greater delight than in making a filigree basket for a spoilt child .
Lady Middleton proposed a rubber of Casino to the others .
No one made any objection but Marianne , who with her usual inattention to the forms of general civility , exclaimed , " Your Ladyship will have the goodness to excuse ME -- you know I detest cards .
I shall go to the piano - forte ; I have not touched it since it was tuned ."
And without farther ceremony , she turned away and walked to the instrument .
Lady Middleton looked as if she thanked heaven that SHE had never made so rude a speech .
" Marianne can never keep long from that instrument you know , ma ' am ," said Elinor , endeavouring to smooth away the offence ; " and I do not much wonder at it ; for it is the very best toned piano - forte I ever heard ."
The remaining five were now to draw their cards .
" Perhaps ," continued Elinor , " if I should happen to cut out , I may be of some use to Miss Lucy Steele , in rolling her papers for her ; and there is so much still to be done to the basket , that it must be impossible I think for her labour singly , to finish it this evening .
I should like the work exceedingly , if she would allow me a share in it ."
" Indeed I shall be very much obliged to you for your help ," cried Lucy , " for I find there is more to be done to it than I thought there was ; and it would be a shocking thing to disappoint dear Annamaria after all ."
" Oh !
that would be terrible , indeed ," said Miss Steele -- " Dear little soul , how I do love her !"
" You are very kind ," said Lady Middleton to Elinor ; " and as you really like the work , perhaps you will be as well pleased not to cut in till another rubber , or will you take your chance now ?"
Elinor joyfully profited by the first of these proposals , and thus by a little of that address which Marianne could never condescend to practise , gained her own end , and pleased Lady Middleton at the same time .
Lucy made room for her with ready attention , and the two fair rivals were thus seated side by side at the same table , and , with the utmost harmony , engaged in forwarding the same work .
The pianoforte at which Marianne , wrapped up in her own music and her own thoughts , had by this time forgotten that any body was in the room besides herself , was luckily so near them that Miss Dashwood now judged she might safely , under the shelter of its noise , introduce the interesting subject , without any risk of being heard at the card - table .
CHAPTER 24
In a firm , though cautious tone , Elinor thus began .
" I should be undeserving of the confidence you have honoured me with , if I felt no desire for its continuance , or no farther curiosity on its subject .
I will not apologize therefore for bringing it forward again ."
" Thank you ," cried Lucy warmly , " for breaking the ice ; you have set my heart at ease by it ; for I was somehow or other afraid I had offended you by what I told you that Monday ."
" Offended me !
How could you suppose so ?
Believe me ," and Elinor spoke it with the truest sincerity , " nothing could be farther from my intention than to give you such an idea .
Could you have a motive for the trust , that was not honourable and flattering to me ?"
" And yet I do assure you ," replied Lucy , her little sharp eyes full of meaning , " there seemed to me to be a coldness and displeasure in your manner that made me quite uncomfortable .
I felt sure that you was angry with me ; and have been quarrelling with myself ever since , for having took such a liberty as to trouble you with my affairs .
But I am very glad to find it was only my own fancy , and that you really do not blame me .
If you knew what a consolation it was to me to relieve my heart speaking to you of what I am always thinking of every moment of my life , your compassion would make you overlook every thing else I am sure ."
" Indeed , I can easily believe that it was a very great relief to you , to acknowledge your situation to me , and be assured that you shall never have reason to repent it .
Your case is a very unfortunate one ; you seem to me to be surrounded with difficulties , and you will have need of all your mutual affection to support you under them .
Mr . Ferrars , I believe , is entirely dependent on his mother ."
" He has only two thousand pounds of his own ; it would be madness to marry upon that , though for my own part , I could give up every prospect of more without a sigh .
I have been always used to a very small income , and could struggle with any poverty for him ; but I love him too well to be the selfish means of robbing him , perhaps , of all that his mother might give him if he married to please her .
We must wait , it may be for many years .
With almost every other man in the world , it would be an alarming prospect ; but Edward ' s affection and constancy nothing can deprive me of I know ."
" That conviction must be every thing to you ; and he is undoubtedly supported by the same trust in your ' s .
If the strength of your reciprocal attachment had failed , as between many people , and under many circumstances it naturally would during a four years ' engagement , your situation would have been pitiable , indeed ."
Lucy here looked up ; but Elinor was careful in guarding her countenance from every expression that could give her words a suspicious tendency .
" Edward ' s love for me ," said Lucy , " has been pretty well put to the test , by our long , very long absence since we were first engaged , and it has stood the trial so well , that I should be unpardonable to doubt it now .
I can safely say that he has never gave me one moment ' s alarm on that account from the first ."
Elinor hardly knew whether to smile or sigh at this assertion .
Lucy went on .
" I am rather of a jealous temper too by nature , and from our different situations in life , from his being so much more in the world than me , and our continual separation , I was enough inclined for suspicion , to have found out the truth in an instant , if there had been the slightest alteration in his behaviour to me when we met , or any lowness of spirits that I could not account for , or if he had talked more of one lady than another , or seemed in any respect less happy at Longstaple than he used to be .
I do not mean to say that I am particularly observant or quick - sighted in general , but in such a case I am sure I could not be deceived ."
" All this ," thought Elinor , " is very pretty ; but it can impose upon neither of us ."
" But what ," said she after a short silence , " are your views ?
or have you none but that of waiting for Mrs . Ferrars ' s death , which is a melancholy and shocking extremity ?-- Is her son determined to submit to this , and to all the tediousness of the many years of suspense in which it may involve you , rather than run the risk of her displeasure for a while by owning the truth ?"
" If we could be certain that it would be only for a while !
But Mrs . Ferrars is a very headstrong proud woman , and in her first fit of anger upon hearing it , would very likely secure every thing to Robert , and the idea of that , for Edward ' s sake , frightens away all my inclination for hasty measures ."
" And for your own sake too , or you are carrying your disinterestedness beyond reason ."
Lucy looked at Elinor again , and was silent .
" Do you know Mr . Robert Ferrars ?"
asked Elinor .
" Not at all -- I never saw him ; but I fancy he is very unlike his brother -- silly and a great coxcomb ."
" A great coxcomb !"
repeated Miss Steele , whose ear had caught those words by a sudden pause in Marianne ' s music .-- " Oh , they are talking of their favourite beaux , I dare say ."
" No sister ," cried Lucy , " you are mistaken there , our favourite beaux are NOT great coxcombs ."
" I can answer for it that Miss Dashwood ' s is not ," said Mrs . Jennings , laughing heartily ; " for he is one of the modestest , prettiest behaved young men I ever saw ; but as for Lucy , she is such a sly little creature , there is no finding out who SHE likes ."
" Oh ," cried Miss Steele , looking significantly round at them , " I dare say Lucy ' s beau is quite as modest and pretty behaved as Miss Dashwood ' s ."
Elinor blushed in spite of herself .
Lucy bit her lip , and looked angrily at her sister .
A mutual silence took place for some time .
Lucy first put an end to it by saying in a lower tone , though Marianne was then giving them the powerful protection of a very magnificent concerto --
" I will honestly tell you of one scheme which has lately come into my head , for bringing matters to bear ; indeed I am bound to let you into the secret , for you are a party concerned .
I dare say you have seen enough of Edward to know that he would prefer the church to every other profession ; now my plan is that he should take orders as soon as he can , and then through your interest , which I am sure you would be kind enough to use out of friendship for him , and I hope out of some regard to me , your brother might be persuaded to give him Norland living ; which I understand is a very good one , and the present incumbent not likely to live a great while .
That would be enough for us to marry upon , and we might trust to time and chance for the rest ."
" I should always be happy ," replied Elinor , " to show any mark of my esteem and friendship for Mr . Ferrars ; but do you not perceive that my interest on such an occasion would be perfectly unnecessary ?
He is brother to Mrs . John Dashwood -- THAT must be recommendation enough to her husband ."
" But Mrs . John Dashwood would not much approve of Edward ' s going into orders ."
" Then I rather suspect that my interest would do very little ."
They were again silent for many minutes .
At length Lucy exclaimed with a deep sigh ,
" I believe it would be the wisest way to put an end to the business at once by dissolving the engagement .
We seem so beset with difficulties on every side , that though it would make us miserable for a time , we should be happier perhaps in the end .
But you will not give me your advice , Miss Dashwood ?"
" No ," answered Elinor , with a smile , which concealed very agitated feelings , " on such a subject I certainly will not .
You know very well that my opinion would have no weight with you , unless it were on the side of your wishes ."
" Indeed you wrong me ," replied Lucy , with great solemnity ; " I know nobody of whose judgment I think so highly as I do of yours ; and I do really believe , that if you was to say to me , ' I advise you by all means to put an end to your engagement with Edward Ferrars , it will be more for the happiness of both of you ,' I should resolve upon doing it immediately ."
Elinor blushed for the insincerity of Edward ' s future wife , and replied , " This compliment would effectually frighten me from giving any opinion on the subject had I formed one .
It raises my influence much too high ; the power of dividing two people so tenderly attached is too much for an indifferent person ."
"' Tis because you are an indifferent person ," said Lucy , with some pique , and laying a particular stress on those words , " that your judgment might justly have such weight with me .
If you could be supposed to be biased in any respect by your own feelings , your opinion would not be worth having ."
Elinor thought it wisest to make no answer to this , lest they might provoke each other to an unsuitable increase of ease and unreserve ; and was even partly determined never to mention the subject again .
Another pause therefore of many minutes ' duration , succeeded this speech , and Lucy was still the first to end it .
" Shall you be in town this winter , Miss Dashwood ?"
said she with all her accustomary complacency .
" Certainly not ."
" I am sorry for that ," returned the other , while her eyes brightened at the information , " it would have gave me such pleasure to meet you there !
But I dare say you will go for all that .
To be sure , your brother and sister will ask you to come to them ."
" It will not be in my power to accept their invitation if they do ."
" How unlucky that is !
I had quite depended upon meeting you there .
Anne and me are to go the latter end of January to some relations who have been wanting us to visit them these several years !
But I only go for the sake of seeing Edward .
He will be there in February , otherwise London would have no charms for me ; I have not spirits for it ."
Elinor was soon called to the card - table by the conclusion of the first rubber , and the confidential discourse of the two ladies was therefore at an end , to which both of them submitted without any reluctance , for nothing had been said on either side to make them dislike each other less than they had done before ; and Elinor sat down to the card table with the melancholy persuasion that Edward was not only without affection for the person who was to be his wife ; but that he had not even the chance of being tolerably happy in marriage , which sincere affection on HER side would have given , for self - interest alone could induce a woman to keep a man to an engagement , of which she seemed so thoroughly aware that he was weary .
From this time the subject was never revived by Elinor , and when entered on by Lucy , who seldom missed an opportunity of introducing it , and was particularly careful to inform her confidante , of her happiness whenever she received a letter from Edward , it was treated by the former with calmness and caution , and dismissed as soon as civility would allow ; for she felt such conversations to be an indulgence which Lucy did not deserve , and which were dangerous to herself .
The visit of the Miss Steeles at Barton Park was lengthened far beyond what the first invitation implied .
Their favour increased ; they could not be spared ; Sir John would not hear of their going ; and in spite of their numerous and long arranged engagements in Exeter , in spite of the absolute necessity of returning to fulfill them immediately , which was in full force at the end of every week , they were prevailed on to stay nearly two months at the park , and to assist in the due celebration of that festival which requires a more than ordinary share of private balls and large dinners to proclaim its importance .
CHAPTER 25
Though Mrs . Jennings was in the habit of spending a large portion of the year at the houses of her children and friends , she was not without a settled habitation of her own .
Since the death of her husband , who had traded with success in a less elegant part of the town , she had resided every winter in a house in one of the streets near Portman Square .
Towards this home , she began on the approach of January to turn her thoughts , and thither she one day abruptly , and very unexpectedly by them , asked the elder Misses Dashwood to accompany her .
Elinor , without observing the varying complexion of her sister , and the animated look which spoke no indifference to the plan , immediately gave a grateful but absolute denial for both , in which she believed herself to be speaking their united inclinations .
The reason alleged was their determined resolution of not leaving their mother at that time of the year .
Mrs . Jennings received the refusal with some surprise , and repeated her invitation immediately .
" Oh , Lord !
I am sure your mother can spare you very well , and I DO beg you will favour me with your company , for I ' ve quite set my heart upon it .
Don ' t fancy that you will be any inconvenience to me , for I shan ' t put myself at all out of my way for you .
It will only be sending Betty by the coach , and I hope I can afford THAT .
We three shall be able to go very well in my chaise ; and when we are in town , if you do not like to go wherever I do , well and good , you may always go with one of my daughters .
I am sure your mother will not object to it ; for I have had such good luck in getting my own children off my hands that she will think me a very fit person to have the charge of you ; and if I don ' t get one of you at least well married before I have done with you , it shall not be my fault .
I shall speak a good word for you to all the young men , you may depend upon it ."
" I have a notion ," said Sir John , " that Miss Marianne would not object to such a scheme , if her elder sister would come into it .
It is very hard indeed that she should not have a little pleasure , because Miss Dashwood does not wish it .
So I would advise you two , to set off for town , when you are tired of Barton , without saying a word to Miss Dashwood about it ."
" Nay ," cried Mrs . Jennings , " I am sure I shall be monstrous glad of Miss Marianne ' s company , whether Miss Dashwood will go or not , only the more the merrier say I , and I thought it would be more comfortable for them to be together ; because , if they got tired of me , they might talk to one another , and laugh at my old ways behind my back .
But one or the other , if not both of them , I must have .
Lord bless me !
how do you think I can live poking by myself , I who have been always used till this winter to have Charlotte with me .
Come , Miss Marianne , let us strike hands upon the bargain , and if Miss Dashwood will change her mind by and bye , why so much the better ."
" I thank you , ma ' am , sincerely thank you ," said Marianne , with warmth : " your invitation has insured my gratitude for ever , and it would give me such happiness , yes , almost the greatest happiness I am capable of , to be able to accept it .
But my mother , my dearest , kindest mother ,-- I feel the justice of what Elinor has urged , and if she were to be made less happy , less comfortable by our absence -- Oh !
no , nothing should tempt me to leave her .
It should not , must not be a struggle ."
Mrs . Jennings repeated her assurance that Mrs . Dashwood could spare them perfectly well ; and Elinor , who now understood her sister , and saw to what indifference to almost every thing else she was carried by her eagerness to be with Willoughby again , made no farther direct opposition to the plan , and merely referred it to her mother ' s decision , from whom however she scarcely expected to receive any support in her endeavour to prevent a visit , which she could not approve of for Marianne , and which on her own account she had particular reasons to avoid .
Whatever Marianne was desirous of , her mother would be eager to promote -- she could not expect to influence the latter to cautiousness of conduct in an affair respecting which she had never been able to inspire her with distrust ; and she dared not explain the motive of her own disinclination for going to London .
That Marianne , fastidious as she was , thoroughly acquainted with Mrs . Jennings ' manners , and invariably disgusted by them , should overlook every inconvenience of that kind , should disregard whatever must be most wounding to her irritable feelings , in her pursuit of one object , was such a proof , so strong , so full , of the importance of that object to her , as Elinor , in spite of all that had passed , was not prepared to witness .
On being informed of the invitation , Mrs . Dashwood , persuaded that such an excursion would be productive of much amusement to both her daughters , and perceiving through all her affectionate attention to herself , how much the heart of Marianne was in it , would not hear of their declining the offer upon HER account ; insisted on their both accepting it directly ; and then began to foresee , with her usual cheerfulness , a variety of advantages that would accrue to them all , from this separation .
" I am delighted with the plan ," she cried , " it is exactly what I could wish .
Margaret and I shall be as much benefited by it as yourselves .
When you and the Middletons are gone , we shall go on so quietly and happily together with our books and our music !
You will find Margaret so improved when you come back again !
I have a little plan of alteration for your bedrooms too , which may now be performed without any inconvenience to any one .
It is very right that you SHOULD go to town ; I would have every young woman of your condition in life acquainted with the manners and amusements of London .
You will be under the care of a motherly good sort of woman , of whose kindness to you I can have no doubt .
And in all probability you will see your brother , and whatever may be his faults , or the faults of his wife , when I consider whose son he is , I cannot bear to have you so wholly estranged from each other ."
" Though with your usual anxiety for our happiness ," said Elinor , " you have been obviating every impediment to the present scheme which occurred to you , there is still one objection which , in my opinion , cannot be so easily removed ."
Marianne ' s countenance sunk .
" And what ," said Mrs . Dashwood , " is my dear prudent Elinor going to suggest ?
What formidable obstacle is she now to bring forward ?
Do let me hear a word about the expense of it ."
" My objection is this ; though I think very well of Mrs . Jennings ' s heart , she is not a woman whose society can afford us pleasure , or whose protection will give us consequence ."
" That is very true ," replied her mother , " but of her society , separately from that of other people , you will scarcely have any thing at all , and you will almost always appear in public with Lady Middleton ."
" If Elinor is frightened away by her dislike of Mrs . Jennings ," said Marianne , " at least it need not prevent MY accepting her invitation .
I have no such scruples , and I am sure I could put up with every unpleasantness of that kind with very little effort ."
Elinor could not help smiling at this display of indifference towards the manners of a person , to whom she had often had difficulty in persuading Marianne to behave with tolerable politeness ; and resolved within herself , that if her sister persisted in going , she would go likewise , as she did not think it proper that Marianne should be left to the sole guidance of her own judgment , or that Mrs . Jennings should be abandoned to the mercy of Marianne for all the comfort of her domestic hours .
To this determination she was the more easily reconciled , by recollecting that Edward Ferrars , by Lucy ' s account , was not to be in town before February ; and that their visit , without any unreasonable abridgement , might be previously finished .
" I will have you BOTH go ," said Mrs . Dashwood ; " these objections are nonsensical .
You will have much pleasure in being in London , and especially in being together ; and if Elinor would ever condescend to anticipate enjoyment , she would foresee it there from a variety of sources ; she would , perhaps , expect some from improving her acquaintance with her sister - in - law ' s family ."
Elinor had often wished for an opportunity of attempting to weaken her mother ' s dependence on the attachment of Edward and herself , that the shock might be less when the whole truth were revealed , and now on this attack , though almost hopeless of success , she forced herself to begin her design by saying , as calmly as she could , " I like Edward Ferrars very much , and shall always be glad to see him ; but as to the rest of the family , it is a matter of perfect indifference to me , whether I am ever known to them or not ."
Mrs . Dashwood smiled , and said nothing .
Marianne lifted up her eyes in astonishment , and Elinor conjectured that she might as well have held her tongue .
After very little farther discourse , it was finally settled that the invitation should be fully accepted .
Mrs . Jennings received the information with a great deal of joy , and many assurances of kindness and care ; nor was it a matter of pleasure merely to her .
Sir John was delighted ; for to a man , whose prevailing anxiety was the dread of being alone , the acquisition of two , to the number of inhabitants in London , was something .
Even Lady Middleton took the trouble of being delighted , which was putting herself rather out of her way ; and as for the Miss Steeles , especially Lucy , they had never been so happy in their lives as this intelligence made them .
Elinor submitted to the arrangement which counteracted her wishes with less reluctance than she had expected to feel .
With regard to herself , it was now a matter of unconcern whether she went to town or not , and when she saw her mother so thoroughly pleased with the plan , and her sister exhilarated by it in look , voice , and manner , restored to all her usual animation , and elevated to more than her usual gaiety , she could not be dissatisfied with the cause , and would hardly allow herself to distrust the consequence .
Marianne ' s joy was almost a degree beyond happiness , so great was the perturbation of her spirits and her impatience to be gone .
Her unwillingness to quit her mother was her only restorative to calmness ; and at the moment of parting her grief on that score was excessive .
Her mother ' s affliction was hardly less , and Elinor was the only one of the three , who seemed to consider the separation as any thing short of eternal .
Their departure took place in the first week in January .
The Middletons were to follow in about a week .
The Miss Steeles kept their station at the park , and were to quit it only with the rest of the family .
CHAPTER 26
Elinor could not find herself in the carriage with Mrs . Jennings , and beginning a journey to London under her protection , and as her guest , without wondering at her own situation , so short had their acquaintance with that lady been , so wholly unsuited were they in age and disposition , and so many had been her objections against such a measure only a few days before !
But these objections had all , with that happy ardour of youth which Marianne and her mother equally shared , been overcome or overlooked ; and Elinor , in spite of every occasional doubt of Willoughby ' s constancy , could not witness the rapture of delightful expectation which filled the whole soul and beamed in the eyes of Marianne , without feeling how blank was her own prospect , how cheerless her own state of mind in the comparison , and how gladly she would engage in the solicitude of Marianne ' s situation to have the same animating object in view , the same possibility of hope .
A short , a very short time however must now decide what Willoughby ' s intentions were ; in all probability he was already in town .
Marianne ' s eagerness to be gone declared her dependence on finding him there ; and Elinor was resolved not only upon gaining every new light as to his character which her own observation or the intelligence of others could give her , but likewise upon watching his behaviour to her sister with such zealous attention , as to ascertain what he was and what he meant , before many meetings had taken place .
Should the result of her observations be unfavourable , she was determined at all events to open the eyes of her sister ; should it be otherwise , her exertions would be of a different nature -- she must then learn to avoid every selfish comparison , and banish every regret which might lessen her satisfaction in the happiness of Marianne .
They were three days on their journey , and Marianne ' s behaviour as they travelled was a happy specimen of what future complaisance and companionableness to Mrs . Jennings might be expected to be .
She sat in silence almost all the way , wrapt in her own meditations , and scarcely ever voluntarily speaking , except when any object of picturesque beauty within their view drew from her an exclamation of delight exclusively addressed to her sister .
To atone for this conduct therefore , Elinor took immediate possession of the post of civility which she had assigned herself , behaved with the greatest attention to Mrs . Jennings , talked with her , laughed with her , and listened to her whenever she could ; and Mrs . Jennings on her side treated them both with all possible kindness , was solicitous on every occasion for their ease and enjoyment , and only disturbed that she could not make them choose their own dinners at the inn , nor extort a confession of their preferring salmon to cod , or boiled fowls to veal cutlets .
They reached town by three o ' clock the third day , glad to be released , after such a journey , from the confinement of a carriage , and ready to enjoy all the luxury of a good fire .
The house was handsome , and handsomely fitted up , and the young ladies were immediately put in possession of a very comfortable apartment .
It had formerly been Charlotte ' s , and over the mantelpiece still hung a landscape in coloured silks of her performance , in proof of her having spent seven years at a great school in town to some effect .
As dinner was not to be ready in less than two hours from their arrival , Elinor determined to employ the interval in writing to her mother , and sat down for that purpose .
In a few moments Marianne did the same .
" I am writing home , Marianne ," said Elinor ; " had not you better defer your letter for a day or two ?"
" I am NOT going to write to my mother ," replied Marianne , hastily , and as if wishing to avoid any farther inquiry .
Elinor said no more ; it immediately struck her that she must then be writing to Willoughby ; and the conclusion which as instantly followed was , that , however mysteriously they might wish to conduct the affair , they must be engaged .
This conviction , though not entirely satisfactory , gave her pleasure , and she continued her letter with greater alacrity .
Marianne ' s was finished in a very few minutes ; in length it could be no more than a note ; it was then folded up , sealed , and directed with eager rapidity .
Elinor thought she could distinguish a large W in the direction ; and no sooner was it complete than Marianne , ringing the bell , requested the footman who answered it to get that letter conveyed for her to the two - penny post .
This decided the matter at once .
Her spirits still continued very high ; but there was a flutter in them which prevented their giving much pleasure to her sister , and this agitation increased as the evening drew on .
She could scarcely eat any dinner , and when they afterwards returned to the drawing room , seemed anxiously listening to the sound of every carriage .
It was a great satisfaction to Elinor that Mrs . Jennings , by being much engaged in her own room , could see little of what was passing .
The tea things were brought in , and already had Marianne been disappointed more than once by a rap at a neighbouring door , when a loud one was suddenly heard which could not be mistaken for one at any other house , Elinor felt secure of its announcing Willoughby ' s approach , and Marianne , starting up , moved towards the door .
Every thing was silent ; this could not be borne many seconds ; she opened the door , advanced a few steps towards the stairs , and after listening half a minute , returned into the room in all the agitation which a conviction of having heard him would naturally produce ; in the ecstasy of her feelings at that instant she could not help exclaiming , " Oh , Elinor , it is Willoughby , indeed it is !"
and seemed almost ready to throw herself into his arms , when Colonel Brandon appeared .
It was too great a shock to be borne with calmness , and she immediately left the room .
Elinor was disappointed too ; but at the same time her regard for Colonel Brandon ensured his welcome with her ; and she felt particularly hurt that a man so partial to her sister should perceive that she experienced nothing but grief and disappointment in seeing him .
She instantly saw that it was not unnoticed by him , that he even observed Marianne as she quitted the room , with such astonishment and concern , as hardly left him the recollection of what civility demanded towards herself .
" Is your sister ill ?"
said he .
Elinor answered in some distress that she was , and then talked of head - aches , low spirits , and over fatigues ; and of every thing to which she could decently attribute her sister ' s behaviour .
He heard her with the most earnest attention , but seeming to recollect himself , said no more on the subject , and began directly to speak of his pleasure at seeing them in London , making the usual inquiries about their journey , and the friends they had left behind .
In this calm kind of way , with very little interest on either side , they continued to talk , both of them out of spirits , and the thoughts of both engaged elsewhere .
Elinor wished very much to ask whether Willoughby were then in town , but she was afraid of giving him pain by any enquiry after his rival ; and at length , by way of saying something , she asked if he had been in London ever since she had seen him last .
" Yes ," he replied , with some embarrassment , " almost ever since ; I have been once or twice at Delaford for a few days , but it has never been in my power to return to Barton ."
This , and the manner in which it was said , immediately brought back to her remembrance all the circumstances of his quitting that place , with the uneasiness and suspicions they had caused to Mrs . Jennings , and she was fearful that her question had implied much more curiosity on the subject than she had ever felt .
Mrs . Jennings soon came in .
" Oh !
Colonel ," said she , with her usual noisy cheerfulness , " I am monstrous glad to see you -- sorry I could not come before -- beg your pardon , but I have been forced to look about me a little , and settle my matters ; for it is a long while since I have been at home , and you know one has always a world of little odd things to do after one has been away for any time ; and then I have had Cartwright to settle with -- Lord , I have been as busy as a bee ever since dinner !
But pray , Colonel , how came you to conjure out that I should be in town today ?"
" I had the pleasure of hearing it at Mr . Palmer ' s , where I have been dining ."
" Oh , you did ; well , and how do they all do at their house ?
How does Charlotte do ?
I warrant you she is a fine size by this time ."
" Mrs . Palmer appeared quite well , and I am commissioned to tell you , that you will certainly see her to - morrow ."
" Ay , to be sure , I thought as much .
Well , Colonel , I have brought two young ladies with me , you see -- that is , you see but one of them now , but there is another somewhere .
Your friend , Miss Marianne , too -- which you will not be sorry to hear .
I do not know what you and Mr . Willoughby will do between you about her .
Ay , it is a fine thing to be young and handsome .
Well !
I was young once , but I never was very handsome -- worse luck for me .
However , I got a very good husband , and I don ' t know what the greatest beauty can do more .
Ah !
poor man !
he has been dead these eight years and better .
But Colonel , where have you been to since we parted ?
And how does your business go on ?
Come , come , let ' s have no secrets among friends ."
He replied with his accustomary mildness to all her inquiries , but without satisfying her in any .
Elinor now began to make the tea , and Marianne was obliged to appear again .
After her entrance , Colonel Brandon became more thoughtful and silent than he had been before , and Mrs . Jennings could not prevail on him to stay long .
No other visitor appeared that evening , and the ladies were unanimous in agreeing to go early to bed .
Marianne rose the next morning with recovered spirits and happy looks .
The disappointment of the evening before seemed forgotten in the expectation of what was to happen that day .
They had not long finished their breakfast before Mrs . Palmer ' s barouche stopped at the door , and in a few minutes she came laughing into the room : so delighted to see them all , that it was hard to say whether she received most pleasure from meeting her mother or the Miss Dashwoods again .
So surprised at their coming to town , though it was what she had rather expected all along ; so angry at their accepting her mother ' s invitation after having declined her own , though at the same time she would never have forgiven them if they had not come !
" Mr . Palmer will be so happy to see you ," said she ; " What do you think he said when he heard of your coming with Mamma ?
I forget what it was now , but it was something so droll !"
After an hour or two spent in what her mother called comfortable chat , or in other words , in every variety of inquiry concerning all their acquaintance on Mrs . Jennings ' s side , and in laughter without cause on Mrs . Palmer ' s , it was proposed by the latter that they should all accompany her to some shops where she had business that morning , to which Mrs . Jennings and Elinor readily consented , as having likewise some purchases to make themselves ; and Marianne , though declining it at first was induced to go likewise .
Wherever they went , she was evidently always on the watch .
In Bond Street especially , where much of their business lay , her eyes were in constant inquiry ; and in whatever shop the party were engaged , her mind was equally abstracted from every thing actually before them , from all that interested and occupied the others .
Restless and dissatisfied every where , her sister could never obtain her opinion of any article of purchase , however it might equally concern them both : she received no pleasure from anything ; was only impatient to be at home again , and could with difficulty govern her vexation at the tediousness of Mrs . Palmer , whose eye was caught by every thing pretty , expensive , or new ; who was wild to buy all , could determine on none , and dawdled away her time in rapture and indecision .
It was late in the morning before they returned home ; and no sooner had they entered the house than Marianne flew eagerly up stairs , and when Elinor followed , she found her turning from the table with a sorrowful countenance , which declared that no Willoughby had been there .
" Has no letter been left here for me since we went out ?"
said she to the footman who then entered with the parcels .
She was answered in the negative .
" Are you quite sure of it ?"
she replied .
" Are you certain that no servant , no porter has left any letter or note ?"
The man replied that none had .
" How very odd !"
said she , in a low and disappointed voice , as she turned away to the window .
" How odd , indeed !"
repeated Elinor within herself , regarding her sister with uneasiness .
" If she had not known him to be in town she would not have written to him , as she did ; she would have written to Combe Magna ; and if he is in town , how odd that he should neither come nor write !
Oh !
my dear mother , you must be wrong in permitting an engagement between a daughter so young , a man so little known , to be carried on in so doubtful , so mysterious a manner !
I long to inquire ; and how will MY interference be borne ."
She determined , after some consideration , that if appearances continued many days longer as unpleasant as they now were , she would represent in the strongest manner to her mother the necessity of some serious enquiry into the affair .
Mrs . Palmer and two elderly ladies of Mrs . Jennings ' s intimate acquaintance , whom she had met and invited in the morning , dined with them .
The former left them soon after tea to fulfill her evening engagements ; and Elinor was obliged to assist in making a whist table for the others .
Marianne was of no use on these occasions , as she would never learn the game ; but though her time was therefore at her own disposal , the evening was by no means more productive of pleasure to her than to Elinor , for it was spent in all the anxiety of expectation and the pain of disappointment .
She sometimes endeavoured for a few minutes to read ; but the book was soon thrown aside , and she returned to the more interesting employment of walking backwards and forwards across the room , pausing for a moment whenever she came to the window , in hopes of distinguishing the long - expected rap .
CHAPTER 27
" If this open weather holds much longer ," said Mrs . Jennings , when they met at breakfast the following morning , " Sir John will not like leaving Barton next week ; ' tis a sad thing for sportsmen to lose a day ' s pleasure .
Poor souls !
I always pity them when they do ; they seem to take it so much to heart ."
" That is true ," cried Marianne , in a cheerful voice , and walking to the window as she spoke , to examine the day .
" I had not thought of that .
This weather will keep many sportsmen in the country ."
It was a lucky recollection , all her good spirits were restored by it .
" It is charming weather for THEM indeed ," she continued , as she sat down to the breakfast table with a happy countenance .
" How much they must enjoy it !
But " ( with a little return of anxiety ) " it cannot be expected to last long .
At this time of the year , and after such a series of rain , we shall certainly have very little more of it .
Frosts will soon set in , and in all probability with severity .
In another day or two perhaps ; this extreme mildness can hardly last longer -- nay , perhaps it may freeze tonight !"
" At any rate ," said Elinor , wishing to prevent Mrs . Jennings from seeing her sister ' s thoughts as clearly as she did , " I dare say we shall have Sir John and Lady Middleton in town by the end of next week ."
" Ay , my dear , I ' ll warrant you we do .
Mary always has her own way ."
" And now ," silently conjectured Elinor , " she will write to Combe by this day ' s post ."
But if she DID , the letter was written and sent away with a privacy which eluded all her watchfulness to ascertain the fact .
Whatever the truth of it might be , and far as Elinor was from feeling thorough contentment about it , yet while she saw Marianne in spirits , she could not be very uncomfortable herself .
And Marianne was in spirits ; happy in the mildness of the weather , and still happier in her expectation of a frost .
The morning was chiefly spent in leaving cards at the houses of Mrs . Jennings ' s acquaintance to inform them of her being in town ; and Marianne was all the time busy in observing the direction of the wind , watching the variations of the sky and imagining an alteration in the air .
" Don ' t you find it colder than it was in the morning , Elinor ?
There seems to me a very decided difference .
I can hardly keep my hands warm even in my muff .
It was not so yesterday , I think .
The clouds seem parting too , the sun will be out in a moment , and we shall have a clear afternoon ."
Elinor was alternately diverted and pained ; but Marianne persevered , and saw every night in the brightness of the fire , and every morning in the appearance of the atmosphere , the certain symptoms of approaching frost .
The Miss Dashwoods had no greater reason to be dissatisfied with Mrs . Jennings ' s style of living , and set of acquaintance , than with her behaviour to themselves , which was invariably kind .
Every thing in her household arrangements was conducted on the most liberal plan , and excepting a few old city friends , whom , to Lady Middleton ' s regret , she had never dropped , she visited no one to whom an introduction could at all discompose the feelings of her young companions .
Pleased to find herself more comfortably situated in that particular than she had expected , Elinor was very willing to compound for the want of much real enjoyment from any of their evening parties , which , whether at home or abroad , formed only for cards , could have little to amuse her .
Colonel Brandon , who had a general invitation to the house , was with them almost every day ; he came to look at Marianne and talk to Elinor , who often derived more satisfaction from conversing with him than from any other daily occurrence , but who saw at the same time with much concern his continued regard for her sister .
She feared it was a strengthening regard .
It grieved her to see the earnestness with which he often watched Marianne , and his spirits were certainly worse than when at Barton .
About a week after their arrival , it became certain that Willoughby was also arrived .
His card was on the table when they came in from the morning ' s drive .
" Good God !"
cried Marianne , " he has been here while we were out ."
Elinor , rejoiced to be assured of his being in London , now ventured to say , " Depend upon it , he will call again tomorrow ."
But Marianne seemed hardly to hear her , and on Mrs . Jenning ' s entrance , escaped with the precious card .
This event , while it raised the spirits of Elinor , restored to those of her sister all , and more than all , their former agitation .
From this moment her mind was never quiet ; the expectation of seeing him every hour of the day , made her unfit for any thing .
She insisted on being left behind , the next morning , when the others went out .
Elinor ' s thoughts were full of what might be passing in Berkeley Street during their absence ; but a moment ' s glance at her sister when they returned was enough to inform her , that Willoughby had paid no second visit there .
A note was just then brought in , and laid on the table ,
" For me !"
cried Marianne , stepping hastily forward .
" No , ma ' am , for my mistress ."
But Marianne , not convinced , took it instantly up .
" It is indeed for Mrs . Jennings ; how provoking !"
" You are expecting a letter , then ?"
said Elinor , unable to be longer silent .
" Yes , a little -- not much ."
After a short pause .
" You have no confidence in me , Marianne ."
" Nay , Elinor , this reproach from YOU -- you who have confidence in no one !"
" Me !"
returned Elinor in some confusion ; " indeed , Marianne , I have nothing to tell ."
" Nor I ," answered Marianne with energy , " our situations then are alike .
We have neither of us any thing to tell ; you , because you do not communicate , and I , because I conceal nothing ."
Elinor , distressed by this charge of reserve in herself , which she was not at liberty to do away , knew not how , under such circumstances , to press for greater openness in Marianne .
Mrs . Jennings soon appeared , and the note being given her , she read it aloud .
It was from Lady Middleton , announcing their arrival in Conduit Street the night before , and requesting the company of her mother and cousins the following evening .
Business on Sir John ' s part , and a violent cold on her own , prevented their calling in Berkeley Street .
The invitation was accepted ; but when the hour of appointment drew near , necessary as it was in common civility to Mrs . Jennings , that they should both attend her on such a visit , Elinor had some difficulty in persuading her sister to go , for still she had seen nothing of Willoughby ; and therefore was not more indisposed for amusement abroad , than unwilling to run the risk of his calling again in her absence .
Elinor found , when the evening was over , that disposition is not materially altered by a change of abode , for although scarcely settled in town , Sir John had contrived to collect around him , nearly twenty young people , and to amuse them with a ball .
This was an affair , however , of which Lady Middleton did not approve .
In the country , an unpremeditated dance was very allowable ; but in London , where the reputation of elegance was more important and less easily attained , it was risking too much for the gratification of a few girls , to have it known that Lady Middleton had given a small dance of eight or nine couple , with two violins , and a mere side - board collation .
Mr . and Mrs . Palmer were of the party ; from the former , whom they had not seen before since their arrival in town , as he was careful to avoid the appearance of any attention to his mother - in - law , and therefore never came near her , they received no mark of recognition on their entrance .
He looked at them slightly , without seeming to know who they were , and merely nodded to Mrs . Jennings from the other side of the room .
Marianne gave one glance round the apartment as she entered : it was enough -- HE was not there -- and she sat down , equally ill - disposed to receive or communicate pleasure .
After they had been assembled about an hour , Mr . Palmer sauntered towards the Miss Dashwoods to express his surprise on seeing them in town , though Colonel Brandon had been first informed of their arrival at his house , and he had himself said something very droll on hearing that they were to come .
" I thought you were both in Devonshire ," said he .
" Did you ?"
replied Elinor .
" When do you go back again ?"
" I do not know ."
And thus ended their discourse .
Never had Marianne been so unwilling to dance in her life , as she was that evening , and never so much fatigued by the exercise .
She complained of it as they returned to Berkeley Street .
" Aye , aye ," said Mrs . Jennings , " we know the reason of all that very well ; if a certain person who shall be nameless , had been there , you would not have been a bit tired : and to say the truth it was not very pretty of him not to give you the meeting when he was invited ."
" Invited !"
cried Marianne .
" So my daughter Middleton told me , for it seems Sir John met him somewhere in the street this morning ."
Marianne said no more , but looked exceedingly hurt .
Impatient in this situation to be doing something that might lead to her sister ' s relief , Elinor resolved to write the next morning to her mother , and hoped by awakening her fears for the health of Marianne , to procure those inquiries which had been so long delayed ; and she was still more eagerly bent on this measure by perceiving after breakfast on the morrow , that Marianne was again writing to Willoughby , for she could not suppose it to be to any other person .
About the middle of the day , Mrs . Jennings went out by herself on business , and Elinor began her letter directly , while Marianne , too restless for employment , too anxious for conversation , walked from one window to the other , or sat down by the fire in melancholy meditation .
Elinor was very earnest in her application to her mother , relating all that had passed , her suspicions of Willoughby ' s inconstancy , urging her by every plea of duty and affection to demand from Marianne an account of her real situation with respect to him .
Her letter was scarcely finished , when a rap foretold a visitor , and Colonel Brandon was announced .
Marianne , who had seen him from the window , and who hated company of any kind , left the room before he entered it .
He looked more than usually grave , and though expressing satisfaction at finding Miss Dashwood alone , as if he had somewhat in particular to tell her , sat for some time without saying a word .
Elinor , persuaded that he had some communication to make in which her sister was concerned , impatiently expected its opening .
It was not the first time of her feeling the same kind of conviction ; for , more than once before , beginning with the observation of " your sister looks unwell to - day ," or " your sister seems out of spirits ," he had appeared on the point , either of disclosing , or of inquiring , something particular about her .
After a pause of several minutes , their silence was broken , by his asking her in a voice of some agitation , when he was to congratulate her on the acquisition of a brother ?
Elinor was not prepared for such a question , and having no answer ready , was obliged to adopt the simple and common expedient , of asking what he meant ?
He tried to smile as he replied , " your sister ' s engagement to Mr . Willoughby is very generally known ."
" It cannot be generally known ," returned Elinor , " for her own family do not know it ."
He looked surprised and said , " I beg your pardon , I am afraid my inquiry has been impertinent ; but I had not supposed any secrecy intended , as they openly correspond , and their marriage is universally talked of ."
" How can that be ?
By whom can you have heard it mentioned ?"
" By many -- by some of whom you know nothing , by others with whom you are most intimate , Mrs . Jennings , Mrs . Palmer , and the Middletons .
But still I might not have believed it , for where the mind is perhaps rather unwilling to be convinced , it will always find something to support its doubts , if I had not , when the servant let me in today , accidentally seen a letter in his hand , directed to Mr . Willoughby in your sister ' s writing .
I came to inquire , but I was convinced before I could ask the question .
Is every thing finally settled ?
Is it impossible to -?
But I have no right , and I could have no chance of succeeding .
Excuse me , Miss Dashwood .
I believe I have been wrong in saying so much , but I hardly know what to do , and on your prudence I have the strongest dependence .
Tell me that it is all absolutely resolved on , that any attempt , that in short concealment , if concealment be possible , is all that remains ."
These words , which conveyed to Elinor a direct avowal of his love for her sister , affected her very much .
She was not immediately able to say anything , and even when her spirits were recovered , she debated for a short time , on the answer it would be most proper to give .
The real state of things between Willoughby and her sister was so little known to herself , that in endeavouring to explain it , she might be as liable to say too much as too little .
Yet as she was convinced that Marianne ' s affection for Willoughby , could leave no hope of Colonel Brandon ' s success , whatever the event of that affection might be , and at the same time wished to shield her conduct from censure , she thought it most prudent and kind , after some consideration , to say more than she really knew or believed .
She acknowledged , therefore , that though she had never been informed by themselves of the terms on which they stood with each other , of their mutual affection she had no doubt , and of their correspondence she was not astonished to hear .
He listened to her with silent attention , and on her ceasing to speak , rose directly from his seat , and after saying in a voice of emotion , " to your sister I wish all imaginable happiness ; to Willoughby that he may endeavour to deserve her ,"-- took leave , and went away .
Elinor derived no comfortable feelings from this conversation , to lessen the uneasiness of her mind on other points ; she was left , on the contrary , with a melancholy impression of Colonel Brandon ' s unhappiness , and was prevented even from wishing it removed , by her anxiety for the very event that must confirm it .
CHAPTER 28
Nothing occurred during the next three or four days , to make Elinor regret what she had done , in applying to her mother ; for Willoughby neither came nor wrote .
They were engaged about the end of that time to attend Lady Middleton to a party , from which Mrs . Jennings was kept away by the indisposition of her youngest daughter ; and for this party , Marianne , wholly dispirited , careless of her appearance , and seeming equally indifferent whether she went or staid , prepared , without one look of hope or one expression of pleasure .
She sat by the drawing - room fire after tea , till the moment of Lady Middleton ' s arrival , without once stirring from her seat , or altering her attitude , lost in her own thoughts , and insensible of her sister ' s presence ; and when at last they were told that Lady Middleton waited for them at the door , she started as if she had forgotten that any one was expected .
They arrived in due time at the place of destination , and as soon as the string of carriages before them would allow , alighted , ascended the stairs , heard their names announced from one landing - place to another in an audible voice , and entered a room splendidly lit up , quite full of company , and insufferably hot .
When they had paid their tribute of politeness by curtsying to the lady of the house , they were permitted to mingle in the crowd , and take their share of the heat and inconvenience , to which their arrival must necessarily add .
After some time spent in saying little or doing less , Lady Middleton sat down to Cassino , and as Marianne was not in spirits for moving about , she and Elinor luckily succeeding to chairs , placed themselves at no great distance from the table .
They had not remained in this manner long , before Elinor perceived Willoughby , standing within a few yards of them , in earnest conversation with a very fashionable looking young woman .
She soon caught his eye , and he immediately bowed , but without attempting to speak to her , or to approach Marianne , though he could not but see her ; and then continued his discourse with the same lady .
Elinor turned involuntarily to Marianne , to see whether it could be unobserved by her .
At that moment she first perceived him , and her whole countenance glowing with sudden delight , she would have moved towards him instantly , had not her sister caught hold of her .
" Good heavens !"
she exclaimed , " he is there -- he is there -- Oh !
why does he not look at me ?
why cannot I speak to him ?"
" Pray , pray be composed ," cried Elinor , " and do not betray what you feel to every body present .
Perhaps he has not observed you yet ."
This however was more than she could believe herself ; and to be composed at such a moment was not only beyond the reach of Marianne , it was beyond her wish .
She sat in an agony of impatience which affected every feature .
At last he turned round again , and regarded them both ; she started up , and pronouncing his name in a tone of affection , held out her hand to him .
He approached , and addressing himself rather to Elinor than Marianne , as if wishing to avoid her eye , and determined not to observe her attitude , inquired in a hurried manner after Mrs . Dashwood , and asked how long they had been in town .
Elinor was robbed of all presence of mind by such an address , and was unable to say a word .
But the feelings of her sister were instantly expressed .
Her face was crimsoned over , and she exclaimed , in a voice of the greatest emotion , " Good God !
Willoughby , what is the meaning of this ?
Have you not received my letters ?
Will you not shake hands with me ?"
He could not then avoid it , but her touch seemed painful to him , and he held her hand only for a moment .
During all this time he was evidently struggling for composure .
Elinor watched his countenance and saw its expression becoming more tranquil .
After a moment ' s pause , he spoke with calmness .
" I did myself the honour of calling in Berkeley Street last Tuesday , and very much regretted that I was not fortunate enough to find yourselves and Mrs . Jennings at home .
My card was not lost , I hope ."
" But have you not received my notes ?"
cried Marianne in the wildest anxiety .
" Here is some mistake I am sure -- some dreadful mistake .
What can be the meaning of it ?
Tell me , Willoughby ; for heaven ' s sake tell me , what is the matter ?"
He made no reply ; his complexion changed and all his embarrassment returned ; but as if , on catching the eye of the young lady with whom he had been previously talking , he felt the necessity of instant exertion , he recovered himself again , and after saying , " Yes , I had the pleasure of receiving the information of your arrival in town , which you were so good as to send me ," turned hastily away with a slight bow and joined his friend .
Marianne , now looking dreadfully white , and unable to stand , sunk into her chair , and Elinor , expecting every moment to see her faint , tried to screen her from the observation of others , while reviving her with lavender water .
" Go to him , Elinor ," she cried , as soon as she could speak , " and force him to come to me .
Tell him I must see him again -- must speak to him instantly .-- I cannot rest -- I shall not have a moment ' s peace till this is explained -- some dreadful misapprehension or other .-- Oh go to him this moment ."
" How can that be done ?
No , my dearest Marianne , you must wait .
This is not the place for explanations .
Wait only till tomorrow ."
With difficulty however could she prevent her from following him herself ; and to persuade her to check her agitation , to wait , at least , with the appearance of composure , till she might speak to him with more privacy and more effect , was impossible ; for Marianne continued incessantly to give way in a low voice to the misery of her feelings , by exclamations of wretchedness .
In a short time Elinor saw Willoughby quit the room by the door towards the staircase , and telling Marianne that he was gone , urged the impossibility of speaking to him again that evening , as a fresh argument for her to be calm .
She instantly begged her sister would entreat Lady Middleton to take them home , as she was too miserable to stay a minute longer .
Lady Middleton , though in the middle of a rubber , on being informed that Marianne was unwell , was too polite to object for a moment to her wish of going away , and making over her cards to a friend , they departed as soon the carriage could be found .
Scarcely a word was spoken during their return to Berkeley Street .
Marianne was in a silent agony , too much oppressed even for tears ; but as Mrs . Jennings was luckily not come home , they could go directly to their own room , where hartshorn restored her a little to herself .
She was soon undressed and in bed , and as she seemed desirous of being alone , her sister then left her , and while she waited the return of Mrs . Jennings , had leisure enough for thinking over the past .
That some kind of engagement had subsisted between Willoughby and Marianne she could not doubt , and that Willoughby was weary of it , seemed equally clear ; for however Marianne might still feed her own wishes , SHE could not attribute such behaviour to mistake or misapprehension of any kind .
Nothing but a thorough change of sentiment could account for it .
Her indignation would have been still stronger than it was , had she not witnessed that embarrassment which seemed to speak a consciousness of his own misconduct , and prevented her from believing him so unprincipled as to have been sporting with the affections of her sister from the first , without any design that would bear investigation .
Absence might have weakened his regard , and convenience might have determined him to overcome it , but that such a regard had formerly existed she could not bring herself to doubt .
As for Marianne , on the pangs which so unhappy a meeting must already have given her , and on those still more severe which might await her in its probable consequence , she could not reflect without the deepest concern .
Her own situation gained in the comparison ; for while she could ESTEEM Edward as much as ever , however they might be divided in future , her mind might be always supported .
But every circumstance that could embitter such an evil seemed uniting to heighten the misery of Marianne in a final separation from Willoughby -- in an immediate and irreconcilable rupture with him .
CHAPTER 29
Before the house - maid had lit their fire the next day , or the sun gained any power over a cold , gloomy morning in January , Marianne , only half dressed , was kneeling against one of the window - seats for the sake of all the little light she could command from it , and writing as fast as a continual flow of tears would permit her .
In this situation , Elinor , roused from sleep by her agitation and sobs , first perceived her ; and after observing her for a few moments with silent anxiety , said , in a tone of the most considerate gentleness ,
" Marianne , may I ask -?"
" No , Elinor ," she replied , " ask nothing ; you will soon know all ."
The sort of desperate calmness with which this was said , lasted no longer than while she spoke , and was immediately followed by a return of the same excessive affliction .
It was some minutes before she could go on with her letter , and the frequent bursts of grief which still obliged her , at intervals , to withhold her pen , were proofs enough of her feeling how more than probable it was that she was writing for the last time to Willoughby .
Elinor paid her every quiet and unobtrusive attention in her power ; and she would have tried to sooth and tranquilize her still more , had not Marianne entreated her , with all the eagerness of the most nervous irritability , not to speak to her for the world .
In such circumstances , it was better for both that they should not be long together ; and the restless state of Marianne ' s mind not only prevented her from remaining in the room a moment after she was dressed , but requiring at once solitude and continual change of place , made her wander about the house till breakfast time , avoiding the sight of every body .
At breakfast she neither ate , nor attempted to eat any thing ; and Elinor ' s attention was then all employed , not in urging her , not in pitying her , nor in appearing to regard her , but in endeavouring to engage Mrs . Jenning ' s notice entirely to herself .
As this was a favourite meal with Mrs . Jennings , it lasted a considerable time , and they were just setting themselves , after it , round the common working table , when a letter was delivered to Marianne , which she eagerly caught from the servant , and , turning of a death - like paleness , instantly ran out of the room .
Elinor , who saw as plainly by this , as if she had seen the direction , that it must come from Willoughby , felt immediately such a sickness at heart as made her hardly able to hold up her head , and sat in such a general tremour as made her fear it impossible to escape Mrs . Jenning ' s notice .
That good lady , however , saw only that Marianne had received a letter from Willoughby , which appeared to her a very good joke , and which she treated accordingly , by hoping , with a laugh , that she would find it to her liking .
Of Elinor ' s distress , she was too busily employed in measuring lengths of worsted for her rug , to see any thing at all ; and calmly continuing her talk , as soon as Marianne disappeared , she said ,
" Upon my word , I never saw a young woman so desperately in love in my life !
MY girls were nothing to her , and yet they used to be foolish enough ; but as for Miss Marianne , she is quite an altered creature .
I hope , from the bottom of my heart , he won ' t keep her waiting much longer , for it is quite grievous to see her look so ill and forlorn .
Pray , when are they to be married ?"
Elinor , though never less disposed to speak than at that moment , obliged herself to answer such an attack as this , and , therefore , trying to smile , replied , " And have you really , Ma ' am , talked yourself into a persuasion of my sister ' s being engaged to Mr . Willoughby ?
I thought it had been only a joke , but so serious a question seems to imply more ; and I must beg , therefore , that you will not deceive yourself any longer .
I do assure you that nothing would surprise me more than to hear of their being going to be married ."
" For shame , for shame , Miss Dashwood !
how can you talk so ?
Don ' t we all know that it must be a match , that they were over head and ears in love with each other from the first moment they met ?
Did not I see them together in Devonshire every day , and all day long ; and did not I know that your sister came to town with me on purpose to buy wedding clothes ?
Come , come , this won ' t do .
Because you are so sly about it yourself , you think nobody else has any senses ; but it is no such thing , I can tell you , for it has been known all over town this ever so long .
I tell every body of it and so does Charlotte ."
" Indeed , Ma ' am ," said Elinor , very seriously , " you are mistaken .
Indeed , you are doing a very unkind thing in spreading the report , and you will find that you have though you will not believe me now ."
Mrs . Jennings laughed again , but Elinor had not spirits to say more , and eager at all events to know what Willoughby had written , hurried away to their room , where , on opening the door , she saw Marianne stretched on the bed , almost choked by grief , one letter in her hand , and two or three others laying by her .
Elinor drew near , but without saying a word ; and seating herself on the bed , took her hand , kissed her affectionately several times , and then gave way to a burst of tears , which at first was scarcely less violent than Marianne ' s .
The latter , though unable to speak , seemed to feel all the tenderness of this behaviour , and after some time thus spent in joint affliction , she put all the letters into Elinor ' s hands ; and then covering her face with her handkerchief , almost screamed with agony .
Elinor , who knew that such grief , shocking as it was to witness it , must have its course , watched by her till this excess of suffering had somewhat spent itself , and then turning eagerly to Willoughby ' s letter , read as follows :
" Bond Street , January .
" MY DEAR MADAM ,
" I have just had the honour of receiving your letter , for which I beg to return my sincere acknowledgments .
I am much concerned to find there was anything in my behaviour last night that did not meet your approbation ; and though I am quite at a loss to discover in what point I could be so unfortunate as to offend you , I entreat your forgiveness of what I can assure you to have been perfectly unintentional .
I shall never reflect on my former acquaintance with your family in Devonshire without the most grateful pleasure , and flatter myself it will not be broken by any mistake or misapprehension of my actions .
My esteem for your whole family is very sincere ; but if I have been so unfortunate as to give rise to a belief of more than I felt , or meant to express , I shall reproach myself for not having been more guarded in my professions of that esteem .
That I should ever have meant more you will allow to be impossible , when you understand that my affections have been long engaged elsewhere , and it will not be many weeks , I believe , before this engagement is fulfilled .
It is with great regret that I obey your commands in returning the letters with which I have been honoured from you , and the lock of hair , which you so obligingly bestowed on me .
" I am , dear Madam , " Your most obedient " humble servant , " JOHN WILLOUGHBY ."
With what indignation such a letter as this must be read by Miss Dashwood , may be imagined .
Though aware , before she began it , that it must bring a confession of his inconstancy , and confirm their separation for ever , she was not aware that such language could be suffered to announce it ; nor could she have supposed Willoughby capable of departing so far from the appearance of every honourable and delicate feeling -- so far from the common decorum of a gentleman , as to send a letter so impudently cruel : a letter which , instead of bringing with his desire of a release any professions of regret , acknowledged no breach of faith , denied all peculiar affection whatever -- a letter of which every line was an insult , and which proclaimed its writer to be deep in hardened villainy .
She paused over it for some time with indignant astonishment ; then read it again and again ; but every perusal only served to increase her abhorrence of the man , and so bitter were her feelings against him , that she dared not trust herself to speak , lest she might wound Marianne still deeper by treating their disengagement , not as a loss to her of any possible good but as an escape from the worst and most irremediable of all evils , a connection , for life , with an unprincipled man , as a deliverance the most real , a blessing the most important .
In her earnest meditations on the contents of the letter , on the depravity of that mind which could dictate it , and probably , on the very different mind of a very different person , who had no other connection whatever with the affair than what her heart gave him with every thing that passed , Elinor forgot the immediate distress of her sister , forgot that she had three letters on her lap yet unread , and so entirely forgot how long she had been in the room , that when on hearing a carriage drive up to the door , she went to the window to see who could be coming so unreasonably early , she was all astonishment to perceive Mrs . Jennings ' s chariot , which she knew had not been ordered till one .
Determined not to quit Marianne , though hopeless of contributing , at present , to her ease , she hurried away to excuse herself from attending Mrs . Jennings , on account of her sister being indisposed .
Mrs . Jennings , with a thoroughly good - humoured concern for its cause , admitted the excuse most readily , and Elinor , after seeing her safe off , returned to Marianne , whom she found attempting to rise from the bed , and whom she reached just in time to prevent her from falling on the floor , faint and giddy from a long want of proper rest and food ; for it was many days since she had any appetite , and many nights since she had really slept ; and now , when her mind was no longer supported by the fever of suspense , the consequence of all this was felt in an aching head , a weakened stomach , and a general nervous faintness .
A glass of wine , which Elinor procured for her directly , made her more comfortable , and she was at last able to express some sense of her kindness , by saying ,
" Poor Elinor !
how unhappy I make you !"
" I only wish ," replied her sister , " there were any thing I COULD do , which might be of comfort to you ."
This , as every thing else would have been , was too much for Marianne , who could only exclaim , in the anguish of her heart , " Oh !
Elinor , I am miserable , indeed ," before her voice was entirely lost in sobs .
Elinor could no longer witness this torrent of unresisted grief in silence .
" Exert yourself , dear Marianne ," she cried , " if you would not kill yourself and all who love you .
Think of your mother ; think of her misery while YOU suffer : for her sake you must exert yourself ."
" I cannot , I cannot ," cried Marianne ; " leave me , leave me , if I distress you ; leave me , hate me , forget me !
but do not torture me so .
Oh !
how easy for those , who have no sorrow of their own to talk of exertion !
Happy , happy Elinor , YOU cannot have an idea of what I suffer ."
" Do you call ME happy , Marianne ?
Ah !
if you knew !-- And can you believe me to be so , while I see you so wretched !"
" Forgive me , forgive me ," throwing her arms round her sister ' s neck ; " I know you feel for me ; I know what a heart you have ; but yet you are -- you must be happy ; Edward loves you -- what , oh what , can do away such happiness as that ?"
" Many , many circumstances ," said Elinor , solemnly .
" No , no , no ," cried Marianne wildly , " he loves you , and only you .
You CAN have no grief ."
" I can have no pleasure while I see you in this state ."
" And you will never see me otherwise .
Mine is a misery which nothing can do away ."
" You must not talk so , Marianne .
Have you no comforts ?
no friends ?
Is your loss such as leaves no opening for consolation ?
Much as you suffer now , think of what you would have suffered if the discovery of his character had been delayed to a later period -- if your engagement had been carried on for months and months , as it might have been , before he chose to put an end to it .
Every additional day of unhappy confidence , on your side , would have made the blow more dreadful ."
" Engagement !"
cried Marianne , " there has been no engagement ."
" No engagement !"
" No , he is not so unworthy as you believe him .
He has broken no faith with me ."
" But he told you that he loved you ."
" Yes -- no -- never absolutely .
It was every day implied , but never professedly declared .
Sometimes I thought it had been -- but it never was ."
" Yet you wrote to him ?"
--
" Yes -- could that be wrong after all that had passed ?-- But I cannot talk ."
Elinor said no more , and turning again to the three letters which now raised a much stronger curiosity than before , directly ran over the contents of all .
The first , which was what her sister had sent him on their arrival in town , was to this effect .
Berkeley Street , January .
" How surprised you will be , Willoughby , on receiving this ; and I think you will feel something more than surprise , when you know that I am in town .
An opportunity of coming hither , though with Mrs . Jennings , was a temptation we could not resist .
I wish you may receive this in time to come here to - night , but I will not depend on it .
At any rate I shall expect you to - morrow .
For the present , adieu .
" M . D ."
Her second note , which had been written on the morning after the dance at the Middletons ', was in these words :--
" I cannot express my disappointment in having missed you the day before yesterday , nor my astonishment at not having received any answer to a note which I sent you above a week ago .
I have been expecting to hear from you , and still more to see you , every hour of the day .
Pray call again as soon as possible , and explain the reason of my having expected this in vain .
You had better come earlier another time , because we are generally out by one .
We were last night at Lady Middleton ' s , where there was a dance .
I have been told that you were asked to be of the party .
But could it be so ?
You must be very much altered indeed since we parted , if that could be the case , and you not there .
But I will not suppose this possible , and I hope very soon to receive your personal assurance of its being otherwise .
" M . D ."
The contents of her last note to him were these :--
" What am I to imagine , Willoughby , by your behaviour last night ?
Again I demand an explanation of it .
I was prepared to meet you with the pleasure which our separation naturally produced , with the familiarity which our intimacy at Barton appeared to me to justify .
I was repulsed indeed !
I have passed a wretched night in endeavouring to excuse a conduct which can scarcely be called less than insulting ; but though I have not yet been able to form any reasonable apology for your behaviour , I am perfectly ready to hear your justification of it .
You have perhaps been misinformed , or purposely deceived , in something concerning me , which may have lowered me in your opinion .
Tell me what it is , explain the grounds on which you acted , and I shall be satisfied , in being able to satisfy you .
It would grieve me indeed to be obliged to think ill of you ; but if I am to do it , if I am to learn that you are not what we have hitherto believed you , that your regard for us all was insincere , that your behaviour to me was intended only to deceive , let it be told as soon as possible .
My feelings are at present in a state of dreadful indecision ; I wish to acquit you , but certainty on either side will be ease to what I now suffer .
If your sentiments are no longer what they were , you will return my notes , and the lock of my hair which is in your possession .
" M . D ."
That such letters , so full of affection and confidence , could have been so answered , Elinor , for Willoughby ' s sake , would have been unwilling to believe .
But her condemnation of him did not blind her to the impropriety of their having been written at all ; and she was silently grieving over the imprudence which had hazarded such unsolicited proofs of tenderness , not warranted by anything preceding , and most severely condemned by the event , when Marianne , perceiving that she had finished the letters , observed to her that they contained nothing but what any one would have written in the same situation .
" I felt myself ," she added , " to be as solemnly engaged to him , as if the strictest legal covenant had bound us to each other ."
" I can believe it ," said Elinor ; " but unfortunately he did not feel the same ."
" He DID feel the same , Elinor -- for weeks and weeks he felt it .
I know he did .
Whatever may have changed him now , ( and nothing but the blackest art employed against me can have done it ), I was once as dear to him as my own soul could wish .
This lock of hair , which now he can so readily give up , was begged of me with the most earnest supplication .
Had you seen his look , his manner , had you heard his voice at that moment !
Have you forgot the last evening of our being together at Barton ?
The morning that we parted too !
When he told me that it might be many weeks before we met again -- his distress -- can I ever forget his distress ?"
For a moment or two she could say no more ; but when this emotion had passed away , she added , in a firmer tone ,
" Elinor , I have been cruelly used ; but not by Willoughby ."
" Dearest Marianne , who but himself ?
By whom can he have been instigated ?"
" By all the world , rather than by his own heart .
I could rather believe every creature of my acquaintance leagued together to ruin me in his opinion , than believe his nature capable of such cruelty .
This woman of whom he writes -- whoever she be -- or any one , in short , but your own dear self , mama , and Edward , may have been so barbarous to bely me .
Beyond you three , is there a creature in the world whom I would not rather suspect of evil than Willoughby , whose heart I know so well ?"
Elinor would not contend , and only replied , " Whoever may have been so detestably your enemy , let them be cheated of their malignant triumph , my dear sister , by seeing how nobly the consciousness of your own innocence and good intentions supports your spirits .
It is a reasonable and laudable pride which resists such malevolence ."
" No , no ," cried Marianne , " misery such as mine has no pride .
I care not who knows that I am wretched .
The triumph of seeing me so may be open to all the world .
Elinor , Elinor , they who suffer little may be proud and independent as they like -- may resist insult , or return mortification -- but I cannot .
I must feel -- I must be wretched -- and they are welcome to enjoy the consciousness of it that can ."
" But for my mother ' s sake and mine --"
" I would do more than for my own .
But to appear happy when I am so miserable -- Oh !
who can require it ?"
Again they were both silent .
Elinor was employed in walking thoughtfully from the fire to the window , from the window to the fire , without knowing that she received warmth from one , or discerning objects through the other ; and Marianne , seated at the foot of the bed , with her head leaning against one of its posts , again took up Willoughby ' s letter , and , after shuddering over every sentence , exclaimed --
" It is too much !
Oh , Willoughby , Willoughby , could this be yours !
Cruel , cruel -- nothing can acquit you .
Elinor , nothing can .
Whatever he might have heard against me -- ought he not to have suspended his belief ?
ought he not to have told me of it , to have given me the power of clearing myself ?
' The lock of hair , ( repeating it from the letter ,) which you so obligingly bestowed on me '-- That is unpardonable .
Willoughby , where was your heart when you wrote those words ?
Oh , barbarously insolent !-- Elinor , can he be justified ?"
" No , Marianne , in no possible way ."
" And yet this woman -- who knows what her art may have been ?-- how long it may have been premeditated , and how deeply contrived by her !-- Who is she ?-- Who can she be ?-- Whom did I ever hear him talk of as young and attractive among his female acquaintance ?-- Oh !
no one , no one -- he talked to me only of myself ."
Another pause ensued ; Marianne was greatly agitated , and it ended thus .
" Elinor , I must go home .
I must go and comfort mama .
Can not we be gone to - morrow ?"
" To - morrow , Marianne !"
" Yes , why should I stay here ?
I came only for Willoughby ' s sake -- and now who cares for me ?
Who regards me ?"
" It would be impossible to go to - morrow .
We owe Mrs . Jennings much more than civility ; and civility of the commonest kind must prevent such a hasty removal as that ."
" Well then , another day or two , perhaps ; but I cannot stay here long , I cannot stay to endure the questions and remarks of all these people .
The Middletons and Palmers -- how am I to bear their pity ?
The pity of such a woman as Lady Middleton !
Oh , what would HE say to that !"
Elinor advised her to lie down again , and for a moment she did so ; but no attitude could give her ease ; and in restless pain of mind and body she moved from one posture to another , till growing more and more hysterical , her sister could with difficulty keep her on the bed at all , and for some time was fearful of being constrained to call for assistance .
Some lavender drops , however , which she was at length persuaded to take , were of use ; and from that time till Mrs . Jennings returned , she continued on the bed quiet and motionless .
CHAPTER 30
Mrs . Jennings came immediately to their room on her return , and without waiting to have her request of admittance answered , opened the door and walked in with a look of real concern .
" How do you do my dear ?"
-- said she in a voice of great compassion to Marianne , who turned away her face without attempting to answer .
" How is she , Miss Dashwood ?-- Poor thing !
she looks very bad .-- No wonder .
Ay , it is but too true .
He is to be married very soon -- a good - for - nothing fellow !
I have no patience with him .
Mrs . Taylor told me of it half an hour ago , and she was told it by a particular friend of Miss Grey herself , else I am sure I should not have believed it ; and I was almost ready to sink as it was .
Well , said I , all I can say is , that if this be true , he has used a young lady of my acquaintance abominably ill , and I wish with all my soul his wife may plague his heart out .
And so I shall always say , my dear , you may depend on it .
I have no notion of men ' s going on in this way ; and if ever I meet him again , I will give him such a dressing as he has not had this many a day .
But there is one comfort , my dear Miss Marianne ; he is not the only young man in the world worth having ; and with your pretty face you will never want admirers .
Well , poor thing !
I won ' t disturb her any longer , for she had better have her cry out at once and have done with .
The Parrys and Sandersons luckily are coming tonight you know , and that will amuse her ."
She then went away , walking on tiptoe out of the room , as if she supposed her young friend ' s affliction could be increased by noise .
Marianne , to the surprise of her sister , determined on dining with them .
Elinor even advised her against it .
But " no , she would go down ; she could bear it very well , and the bustle about her would be less ."
Elinor , pleased to have her governed for a moment by such a motive , though believing it hardly possible that she could sit out the dinner , said no more ; and adjusting her dress for her as well as she could , while Marianne still remained on the bed , was ready to assist her into the dining room as soon as they were summoned to it .
When there , though looking most wretchedly , she ate more and was calmer than her sister had expected .
Had she tried to speak , or had she been conscious of half Mrs . Jennings ' s well - meant but ill - judged attentions to her , this calmness could not have been maintained ; but not a syllable escaped her lips ; and the abstraction of her thoughts preserved her in ignorance of every thing that was passing before her .
Elinor , who did justice to Mrs . Jennings ' s kindness , though its effusions were often distressing , and sometimes almost ridiculous , made her those acknowledgments , and returned her those civilities , which her sister could not make or return for herself .
Their good friend saw that Marianne was unhappy , and felt that every thing was due to her which might make her at all less so .
She treated her therefore , with all the indulgent fondness of a parent towards a favourite child on the last day of its holidays .
Marianne was to have the best place by the fire , was to be tempted to eat by every delicacy in the house , and to be amused by the relation of all the news of the day .
Had not Elinor , in the sad countenance of her sister , seen a check to all mirth , she could have been entertained by Mrs . Jennings ' s endeavours to cure a disappointment in love , by a variety of sweetmeats and olives , and a good fire .
As soon , however , as the consciousness of all this was forced by continual repetition on Marianne , she could stay no longer .
With a hasty exclamation of Misery , and a sign to her sister not to follow her , she directly got up and hurried out of the room .
" Poor soul !"
cried Mrs . Jennings , as soon as she was gone , " how it grieves me to see her !
And I declare if she is not gone away without finishing her wine !
And the dried cherries too !
Lord !
nothing seems to do her any good .
I am sure if I knew of any thing she would like , I would send all over the town for it .
Well , it is the oddest thing to me , that a man should use such a pretty girl so ill !
But when there is plenty of money on one side , and next to none on the other , Lord bless you !
they care no more about such things !--"
" The lady then -- Miss Grey I think you called her -- is very rich ?"
" Fifty thousand pounds , my dear .
Did you ever see her ?
a smart , stylish girl they say , but not handsome .
I remember her aunt very well , Biddy Henshawe ; she married a very wealthy man .
But the family are all rich together .
Fifty thousand pounds !
and by all accounts , it won ' t come before it ' s wanted ; for they say he is all to pieces .
No wonder !
dashing about with his curricle and hunters !
Well , it don ' t signify talking ; but when a young man , be who he will , comes and makes love to a pretty girl , and promises marriage , he has no business to fly off from his word only because he grows poor , and a richer girl is ready to have him .
Why don ' t he , in such a case , sell his horses , let his house , turn off his servants , and make a thorough reform at once ?
I warrant you , Miss Marianne would have been ready to wait till matters came round .
But that won ' t do now - a - days ; nothing in the way of pleasure can ever be given up by the young men of this age ."
" Do you know what kind of a girl Miss Grey is ?
Is she said to be amiable ?"
" I never heard any harm of her ; indeed I hardly ever heard her mentioned ; except that Mrs . Taylor did say this morning , that one day Miss Walker hinted to her , that she believed Mr . and Mrs . Ellison would not be sorry to have Miss Grey married , for she and Mrs . Ellison could never agree ."
--
" And who are the Ellisons ?"
" Her guardians , my dear .
But now she is of age and may choose for herself ; and a pretty choice she has made !-- What now ," after pausing a moment --" your poor sister is gone to her own room , I suppose , to moan by herself .
Is there nothing one can get to comfort her ?
Poor dear , it seems quite cruel to let her be alone .
Well , by - and - by we shall have a few friends , and that will amuse her a little .
What shall we play at ?
She hates whist I know ; but is there no round game she cares for ?"
" Dear ma ' am , this kindness is quite unnecessary .
Marianne , I dare say , will not leave her room again this evening .
I shall persuade her if I can to go early to bed , for I am sure she wants rest ."
" Aye , I believe that will be best for her .
Let her name her own supper , and go to bed .
Lord !
no wonder she has been looking so bad and so cast down this last week or two , for this matter I suppose has been hanging over her head as long as that .
And so the letter that came today finished it !
Poor soul !
I am sure if I had had a notion of it , I would not have joked her about it for all my money .
But then you know , how should I guess such a thing ?
I made sure of its being nothing but a common love letter , and you know young people like to be laughed at about them .
Lord !
how concerned Sir John and my daughters will be when they hear it !
If I had my senses about me I might have called in Conduit Street in my way home , and told them of it .
But I shall see them tomorrow ."
" It would be unnecessary I am sure , for you to caution Mrs . Palmer and Sir John against ever naming Mr . Willoughby , or making the slightest allusion to what has passed , before my sister .
Their own good - nature must point out to them the real cruelty of appearing to know any thing about it when she is present ; and the less that may ever be said to myself on the subject , the more my feelings will be spared , as you my dear madam will easily believe ."
" Oh !
Lord !
yes , that I do indeed .
It must be terrible for you to hear it talked of ; and as for your sister , I am sure I would not mention a word about it to her for the world .
You saw I did not all dinner time .
No more would Sir John , nor my daughters , for they are all very thoughtful and considerate ; especially if I give them a hint , as I certainly will .
For my part , I think the less that is said about such things , the better , the sooner ' tis blown over and forgot .
And what does talking ever do you know ?"
" In this affair it can only do harm ; more so perhaps than in many cases of a similar kind , for it has been attended by circumstances which , for the sake of every one concerned in it , make it unfit to become the public conversation .
I must do THIS justice to Mr . Willoughby -- he has broken no positive engagement with my sister ."
" Law , my dear !
Don ' t pretend to defend him .
No positive engagement indeed !
after taking her all over Allenham House , and fixing on the very rooms they were to live in hereafter !"
Elinor , for her sister ' s sake , could not press the subject farther , and she hoped it was not required of her for Willoughby ' s ; since , though Marianne might lose much , he could gain very little by the enforcement of the real truth .
After a short silence on both sides , Mrs . Jennings , with all her natural hilarity , burst forth again .
" Well , my dear , ' tis a true saying about an ill - wind , for it will be all the better for Colonel Brandon .
He will have her at last ; aye , that he will .
Mind me , now , if they an ' t married by Mid - summer .
Lord !
how he ' ll chuckle over this news !
I hope he will come tonight .
It will be all to one a better match for your sister .
Two thousand a year without debt or drawback -- except the little love - child , indeed ; aye , I had forgot her ; but she may be ' prenticed out at a small cost , and then what does it signify ?
Delaford is a nice place , I can tell you ; exactly what I call a nice old fashioned place , full of comforts and conveniences ; quite shut in with great garden walls that are covered with the best fruit - trees in the country ; and such a mulberry tree in one corner !
Lord !
how Charlotte and I did stuff the only time we were there !
Then , there is a dove - cote , some delightful stew - ponds , and a very pretty canal ; and every thing , in short , that one could wish for ; and , moreover , it is close to the church , and only a quarter of a mile from the turnpike - road , so ' tis never dull , for if you only go and sit up in an old yew arbour behind the house , you may see all the carriages that pass along .
Oh !
' tis a nice place !
A butcher hard by in the village , and the parsonage - house within a stone ' s throw .
To my fancy , a thousand times prettier than Barton Park , where they are forced to send three miles for their meat , and have not a neighbour nearer than your mother .
Well , I shall spirit up the Colonel as soon as I can .
One shoulder of mutton , you know , drives another down .
If we CAN but put Willoughby out of her head !"
" Ay , if we can do THAT , Ma ' am ," said Elinor , " we shall do very well with or without Colonel Brandon ."
And then rising , she went away to join Marianne , whom she found , as she expected , in her own room , leaning , in silent misery , over the small remains of a fire , which , till Elinor ' s entrance , had been her only light .
" You had better leave me ," was all the notice that her sister received from her .
" I will leave you ," said Elinor , " if you will go to bed ."
But this , from the momentary perverseness of impatient suffering , she at first refused to do .
Her sister ' s earnest , though gentle persuasion , however , soon softened her to compliance , and Elinor saw her lay her aching head on the pillow , and as she hoped , in a way to get some quiet rest before she left her .
In the drawing - room , whither she then repaired , she was soon joined by Mrs . Jennings , with a wine - glass , full of something , in her hand .
" My dear ," said she , entering , " I have just recollected that I have some of the finest old Constantia wine in the house that ever was tasted , so I have brought a glass of it for your sister .
My poor husband !
how fond he was of it !
Whenever he had a touch of his old colicky gout , he said it did him more good than any thing else in the world .
Do take it to your sister ."
" Dear Ma ' am ," replied Elinor , smiling at the difference of the complaints for which it was recommended , " how good you are !
But I have just left Marianne in bed , and , I hope , almost asleep ; and as I think nothing will be of so much service to her as rest , if you will give me leave , I will drink the wine myself ."
Mrs . Jennings , though regretting that she had not been five minutes earlier , was satisfied with the compromise ; and Elinor , as she swallowed the chief of it , reflected , that though its effects on a colicky gout were , at present , of little importance to her , its healing powers , on a disappointed heart might be as reasonably tried on herself as on her sister .
Colonel Brandon came in while the party were at tea , and by his manner of looking round the room for Marianne , Elinor immediately fancied that he neither expected nor wished to see her there , and , in short , that he was already aware of what occasioned her absence .
Mrs . Jennings was not struck by the same thought ; for soon after his entrance , she walked across the room to the tea - table where Elinor presided , and whispered -- " The Colonel looks as grave as ever you see .
He knows nothing of it ; do tell him , my dear ."
He shortly afterwards drew a chair close to her ' s , and , with a look which perfectly assured her of his good information , inquired after her sister .
" Marianne is not well ," said she .
" She has been indisposed all day , and we have persuaded her to go to bed ."
" Perhaps , then ," he hesitatingly replied , " what I heard this morning may be -- there may be more truth in it than I could believe possible at first ."
" What did you hear ?"
" That a gentleman , whom I had reason to think -- in short , that a man , whom I KNEW to be engaged -- but how shall I tell you ?
If you know it already , as surely you must , I may be spared ."
" You mean ," answered Elinor , with forced calmness , " Mr . Willoughby ' s marriage with Miss Grey .
Yes , we DO know it all .
This seems to have been a day of general elucidation , for this very morning first unfolded it to us .
Mr . Willoughby is unfathomable !
Where did you hear it ?"
" In a stationer ' s shop in Pall Mall , where I had business .
Two ladies were waiting for their carriage , and one of them was giving the other an account of the intended match , in a voice so little attempting concealment , that it was impossible for me not to hear all .
The name of Willoughby , John Willoughby , frequently repeated , first caught my attention ; and what followed was a positive assertion that every thing was now finally settled respecting his marriage with Miss Grey -- it was no longer to be a secret -- it would take place even within a few weeks , with many particulars of preparations and other matters .
One thing , especially , I remember , because it served to identify the man still more :-- as soon as the ceremony was over , they were to go to Combe Magna , his seat in Somersetshire .
My astonishment !-- but it would be impossible to describe what I felt .
The communicative lady I learnt , on inquiry , for I stayed in the shop till they were gone , was a Mrs . Ellison , and that , as I have been since informed , is the name of Miss Grey ' s guardian ."
" It is .
But have you likewise heard that Miss Grey has fifty thousand pounds ?
In that , if in any thing , we may find an explanation ."
" It may be so ; but Willoughby is capable -- at least I think "-- he stopped a moment ; then added in a voice which seemed to distrust itself , " And your sister -- how did she --"
" Her sufferings have been very severe .
I have only to hope that they may be proportionately short .
It has been , it is a most cruel affliction .
Till yesterday , I believe , she never doubted his regard ; and even now , perhaps -- but I am almost convinced that he never was really attached to her .
He has been very deceitful !
and , in some points , there seems a hardness of heart about him ."
" Ah !"
said Colonel Brandon , " there is , indeed !
But your sister does not -- I think you said so -- she does not consider quite as you do ?"
" You know her disposition , and may believe how eagerly she would still justify him if she could ."
He made no answer ; and soon afterwards , by the removal of the tea - things , and the arrangement of the card parties , the subject was necessarily dropped .
Mrs . Jennings , who had watched them with pleasure while they were talking , and who expected to see the effect of Miss Dashwood ' s communication , in such an instantaneous gaiety on Colonel Brandon ' s side , as might have become a man in the bloom of youth , of hope and happiness , saw him , with amazement , remain the whole evening more serious and thoughtful than usual .
CHAPTER 31
From a night of more sleep than she had expected , Marianne awoke the next morning to the same consciousness of misery in which she had closed her eyes .
Elinor encouraged her as much as possible to talk of what she felt ; and before breakfast was ready , they had gone through the subject again and again ; and with the same steady conviction and affectionate counsel on Elinor ' s side , the same impetuous feelings and varying opinions on Marianne ' s , as before .
Sometimes she could believe Willoughby to be as unfortunate and as innocent as herself , and at others , lost every consolation in the impossibility of acquitting him .
At one moment she was absolutely indifferent to the observation of all the world , at another she would seclude herself from it for ever , and at a third could resist it with energy .
In one thing , however , she was uniform , when it came to the point , in avoiding , where it was possible , the presence of Mrs . Jennings , and in a determined silence when obliged to endure it .
Her heart was hardened against the belief of Mrs . Jennings ' s entering into her sorrows with any compassion .
" No , no , no , it cannot be ," she cried ; " she cannot feel .
Her kindness is not sympathy ; her good - nature is not tenderness .
All that she wants is gossip , and she only likes me now because I supply it ."
Elinor had not needed this to be assured of the injustice to which her sister was often led in her opinion of others , by the irritable refinement of her own mind , and the too great importance placed by her on the delicacies of a strong sensibility , and the graces of a polished manner .
Like half the rest of the world , if more than half there be that are clever and good , Marianne , with excellent abilities and an excellent disposition , was neither reasonable nor candid .
She expected from other people the same opinions and feelings as her own , and she judged of their motives by the immediate effect of their actions on herself .
Thus a circumstance occurred , while the sisters were together in their own room after breakfast , which sunk the heart of Mrs . Jennings still lower in her estimation ; because , through her own weakness , it chanced to prove a source of fresh pain to herself , though Mrs . Jennings was governed in it by an impulse of the utmost goodwill .
With a letter in her outstretched hand , and countenance gaily smiling , from the persuasion of bringing comfort , she entered their room , saying ,
" Now , my dear , I bring you something that I am sure will do you good ."
Marianne heard enough .
In one moment her imagination placed before her a letter from Willoughby , full of tenderness and contrition , explanatory of all that had passed , satisfactory , convincing ; and instantly followed by Willoughby himself , rushing eagerly into the room to inforce , at her feet , by the eloquence of his eyes , the assurances of his letter .
The work of one moment was destroyed by the next .
The hand writing of her mother , never till then unwelcome , was before her ; and , in the acuteness of the disappointment which followed such an ecstasy of more than hope , she felt as if , till that instant , she had never suffered .
The cruelty of Mrs . Jennings no language , within her reach in her moments of happiest eloquence , could have expressed ; and now she could reproach her only by the tears which streamed from her eyes with passionate violence -- a reproach , however , so entirely lost on its object , that after many expressions of pity , she withdrew , still referring her to the letter of comfort .
But the letter , when she was calm enough to read it , brought little comfort .
Willoughby filled every page .
Her mother , still confident of their engagement , and relying as warmly as ever on his constancy , had only been roused by Elinor ' s application , to intreat from Marianne greater openness towards them both ; and this , with such tenderness towards her , such affection for Willoughby , and such a conviction of their future happiness in each other , that she wept with agony through the whole of it .
All her impatience to be at home again now returned ; her mother was dearer to her than ever ; dearer through the very excess of her mistaken confidence in Willoughby , and she was wildly urgent to be gone .
Elinor , unable herself to determine whether it were better for Marianne to be in London or at Barton , offered no counsel of her own except of patience till their mother ' s wishes could be known ; and at length she obtained her sister ' s consent to wait for that knowledge .
Mrs . Jennings left them earlier than usual ; for she could not be easy till the Middletons and Palmers were able to grieve as much as herself ; and positively refusing Elinor ' s offered attendance , went out alone for the rest of the morning .
Elinor , with a very heavy heart , aware of the pain she was going to communicate , and perceiving , by Marianne ' s letter , how ill she had succeeded in laying any foundation for it , then sat down to write her mother an account of what had passed , and entreat her directions for the future ; while Marianne , who came into the drawing - room on Mrs . Jennings ' s going away , remained fixed at the table where Elinor wrote , watching the advancement of her pen , grieving over her for the hardship of such a task , and grieving still more fondly over its effect on her mother .
In this manner they had continued about a quarter of an hour , when Marianne , whose nerves could not then bear any sudden noise , was startled by a rap at the door .
" Who can this be ?"
cried Elinor .
" So early too !
I thought we HAD been safe ."
Marianne moved to the window --
" It is Colonel Brandon !"
said she , with vexation .
" We are never safe from HIM ."
" He will not come in , as Mrs . Jennings is from home ."
" I will not trust to THAT ," retreating to her own room .
" A man who has nothing to do with his own time has no conscience in his intrusion on that of others ."
The event proved her conjecture right , though it was founded on injustice and error ; for Colonel Brandon DID come in ; and Elinor , who was convinced that solicitude for Marianne brought him thither , and who saw THAT solicitude in his disturbed and melancholy look , and in his anxious though brief inquiry after her , could not forgive her sister for esteeming him so lightly .
" I met Mrs . Jennings in Bond Street ," said he , after the first salutation , " and she encouraged me to come on ; and I was the more easily encouraged , because I thought it probable that I might find you alone , which I was very desirous of doing .
My object -- my wish -- my sole wish in desiring it -- I hope , I believe it is -- is to be a means of giving comfort ;-- no , I must not say comfort -- not present comfort -- but conviction , lasting conviction to your sister ' s mind .
My regard for her , for yourself , for your mother -- will you allow me to prove it , by relating some circumstances which nothing but a VERY sincere regard -- nothing but an earnest desire of being useful -- I think I am justified -- though where so many hours have been spent in convincing myself that I am right , is there not some reason to fear I may be wrong ?"
He stopped .
" I understand you ," said Elinor .
" You have something to tell me of Mr . Willoughby , that will open his character farther .
Your telling it will be the greatest act of friendship that can be shewn Marianne .
MY gratitude will be insured immediately by any information tending to that end , and HERS must be gained by it in time .
Pray , pray let me hear it ."
" You shall ; and , to be brief , when I quitted Barton last October ,-- but this will give you no idea -- I must go farther back .
You will find me a very awkward narrator , Miss Dashwood ; I hardly know where to begin .
A short account of myself , I believe , will be necessary , and it SHALL be a short one .
On such a subject ," sighing heavily , " can I have little temptation to be diffuse ."
He stopt a moment for recollection , and then , with another sigh , went on .
" You have probably entirely forgotten a conversation -- ( it is not to be supposed that it could make any impression on you )-- a conversation between us one evening at Barton Park -- it was the evening of a dance -- in which I alluded to a lady I had once known , as resembling , in some measure , your sister Marianne ."
" Indeed ," answered Elinor , " I have NOT forgotten it ."
He looked pleased by this remembrance , and added ,
" If I am not deceived by the uncertainty , the partiality of tender recollection , there is a very strong resemblance between them , as well in mind as person .
The same warmth of heart , the same eagerness of fancy and spirits .
This lady was one of my nearest relations , an orphan from her infancy , and under the guardianship of my father .
Our ages were nearly the same , and from our earliest years we were playfellows and friends .
I cannot remember the time when I did not love Eliza ; and my affection for her , as we grew up , was such , as perhaps , judging from my present forlorn and cheerless gravity , you might think me incapable of having ever felt .
Her ' s , for me , was , I believe , fervent as the attachment of your sister to Mr . Willoughby and it was , though from a different cause , no less unfortunate .
At seventeen she was lost to me for ever .
She was married -- married against her inclination to my brother .
Her fortune was large , and our family estate much encumbered .
And this , I fear , is all that can be said for the conduct of one , who was at once her uncle and guardian .
My brother did not deserve her ; he did not even love her .
I had hoped that her regard for me would support her under any difficulty , and for some time it did ; but at last the misery of her situation , for she experienced great unkindness , overcame all her resolution , and though she had promised me that nothing -- but how blindly I relate !
I have never told you how this was brought on .
We were within a few hours of eloping together for Scotland .
The treachery , or the folly , of my cousin ' s maid betrayed us .
I was banished to the house of a relation far distant , and she was allowed no liberty , no society , no amusement , till my father ' s point was gained .
I had depended on her fortitude too far , and the blow was a severe one -- but had her marriage been happy , so young as I then was , a few months must have reconciled me to it , or at least I should not have now to lament it .
This however was not the case .
My brother had no regard for her ; his pleasures were not what they ought to have been , and from the first he treated her unkindly .
The consequence of this , upon a mind so young , so lively , so inexperienced as Mrs . Brandon ' s , was but too natural .
She resigned herself at first to all the misery of her situation ; and happy had it been if she had not lived to overcome those regrets which the remembrance of me occasioned .
But can we wonder that , with such a husband to provoke inconstancy , and without a friend to advise or restrain her ( for my father lived only a few months after their marriage , and I was with my regiment in the East Indies ) she should fall ?
Had I remained in England , perhaps -- but I meant to promote the happiness of both by removing from her for years , and for that purpose had procured my exchange .
The shock which her marriage had given me ," he continued , in a voice of great agitation , " was of trifling weight -- was nothing to what I felt when I heard , about two years afterwards , of her divorce .
It was THAT which threw this gloom ,-- even now the recollection of what I suffered --"
He could say no more , and rising hastily walked for a few minutes about the room .
Elinor , affected by his relation , and still more by his distress , could not speak .
He saw her concern , and coming to her , took her hand , pressed it , and kissed it with grateful respect .
A few minutes more of silent exertion enabled him to proceed with composure .
" It was nearly three years after this unhappy period before I returned to England .
My first care , when I DID arrive , was of course to seek for her ; but the search was as fruitless as it was melancholy .
I could not trace her beyond her first seducer , and there was every reason to fear that she had removed from him only to sink deeper in a life of sin .
Her legal allowance was not adequate to her fortune , nor sufficient for her comfortable maintenance , and I learnt from my brother that the power of receiving it had been made over some months before to another person .
He imagined , and calmly could he imagine it , that her extravagance , and consequent distress , had obliged her to dispose of it for some immediate relief .
At last , however , and after I had been six months in England , I DID find her .
Regard for a former servant of my own , who had since fallen into misfortune , carried me to visit him in a spunging - house , where he was confined for debt ; and there , the same house , under a similar confinement , was my unfortunate sister .
So altered -- so faded -- worn down by acute suffering of every kind !
hardly could I believe the melancholy and sickly figure before me , to be the remains of the lovely , blooming , healthful girl , on whom I had once doted .
What I endured in so beholding her -- but I have no right to wound your feelings by attempting to describe it -- I have pained you too much already .
That she was , to all appearance , in the last stage of a consumption , was -- yes , in such a situation it was my greatest comfort .
Life could do nothing for her , beyond giving time for a better preparation for death ; and that was given .
I saw her placed in comfortable lodgings , and under proper attendants ; I visited her every day during the rest of her short life : I was with her in her last moments ."
Again he stopped to recover himself ; and Elinor spoke her feelings in an exclamation of tender concern , at the fate of his unfortunate friend .
" Your sister , I hope , cannot be offended ," said he , " by the resemblance I have fancied between her and my poor disgraced relation .
Their fates , their fortunes , cannot be the same ; and had the natural sweet disposition of the one been guarded by a firmer mind , or a happier marriage , she might have been all that you will live to see the other be .
But to what does all this lead ?
I seem to have been distressing you for nothing .
Ah !
Miss Dashwood -- a subject such as this -- untouched for fourteen years -- it is dangerous to handle it at all !
I WILL be more collected -- more concise .
She left to my care her only child , a little girl , the offspring of her first guilty connection , who was then about three years old .
She loved the child , and had always kept it with her .
It was a valued , a precious trust to me ; and gladly would I have discharged it in the strictest sense , by watching over her education myself , had the nature of our situations allowed it ; but I had no family , no home ; and my little Eliza was therefore placed at school .
I saw her there whenever I could , and after the death of my brother , ( which happened about five years ago , and which left to me the possession of the family property ,) she visited me at Delaford .
I called her a distant relation ; but I am well aware that I have in general been suspected of a much nearer connection with her .
It is now three years ago ( she had just reached her fourteenth year ,) that I removed her from school , to place her under the care of a very respectable woman , residing in Dorsetshire , who had the charge of four or five other girls of about the same time of life ; and for two years I had every reason to be pleased with her situation .
But last February , almost a twelvemonth back , she suddenly disappeared .
I had allowed her , ( imprudently , as it has since turned out ,) at her earnest desire , to go to Bath with one of her young friends , who was attending her father there for his health .
I knew him to be a very good sort of man , and I thought well of his daughter -- better than she deserved , for , with a most obstinate and ill - judged secrecy , she would tell nothing , would give no clue , though she certainly knew all .
He , her father , a well - meaning , but not a quick - sighted man , could really , I believe , give no information ; for he had been generally confined to the house , while the girls were ranging over the town and making what acquaintance they chose ; and he tried to convince me , as thoroughly as he was convinced himself , of his daughter ' s being entirely unconcerned in the business .
In short , I could learn nothing but that she was gone ; all the rest , for eight long months , was left to conjecture .
What I thought , what I feared , may be imagined ; and what I suffered too ."
" Good heavens !"
cried Elinor , " could it be -- could Willoughby !"
--
" The first news that reached me of her ," he continued , " came in a letter from herself , last October .
It was forwarded to me from Delaford , and I received it on the very morning of our intended party to Whitwell ; and this was the reason of my leaving Barton so suddenly , which I am sure must at the time have appeared strange to every body , and which I believe gave offence to some .
Little did Mr . Willoughby imagine , I suppose , when his looks censured me for incivility in breaking up the party , that I was called away to the relief of one whom he had made poor and miserable ; but HAD he known it , what would it have availed ?
Would he have been less gay or less happy in the smiles of your sister ?
No , he had already done that , which no man who CAN feel for another would do .
He had left the girl whose youth and innocence he had seduced , in a situation of the utmost distress , with no creditable home , no help , no friends , ignorant of his address !
He had left her , promising to return ; he neither returned , nor wrote , nor relieved her ."
" This is beyond every thing !"
exclaimed Elinor .
" His character is now before you ; expensive , dissipated , and worse than both .
Knowing all this , as I have now known it many weeks , guess what I must have felt on seeing your sister as fond of him as ever , and on being assured that she was to marry him : guess what I must have felt for all your sakes .
When I came to you last week and found you alone , I came determined to know the truth ; though irresolute what to do when it WAS known .
My behaviour must have seemed strange to you then ; but now you will comprehend it .
To suffer you all to be so deceived ; to see your sister -- but what could I do ?
I had no hope of interfering with success ; and sometimes I thought your sister ' s influence might yet reclaim him .
But now , after such dishonorable usage , who can tell what were his designs on her .
Whatever they may have been , however , she may now , and hereafter doubtless WILL turn with gratitude towards her own condition , when she compares it with that of my poor Eliza , when she considers the wretched and hopeless situation of this poor girl , and pictures her to herself , with an affection for him so strong , still as strong as her own , and with a mind tormented by self - reproach , which must attend her through life .
Surely this comparison must have its use with her .
She will feel her own sufferings to be nothing .
They proceed from no misconduct , and can bring no disgrace .
On the contrary , every friend must be made still more her friend by them .
Concern for her unhappiness , and respect for her fortitude under it , must strengthen every attachment .
Use your own discretion , however , in communicating to her what I have told you .
You must know best what will be its effect ; but had I not seriously , and from my heart believed it might be of service , might lessen her regrets , I would not have suffered myself to trouble you with this account of my family afflictions , with a recital which may seem to have been intended to raise myself at the expense of others ."
Elinor ' s thanks followed this speech with grateful earnestness ; attended too with the assurance of her expecting material advantage to Marianne , from the communication of what had passed .
" I have been more pained ," said she , " by her endeavors to acquit him than by all the rest ; for it irritates her mind more than the most perfect conviction of his unworthiness can do .
Now , though at first she will suffer much , I am sure she will soon become easier .
Have you ," she continued , after a short silence , " ever seen Mr . Willoughby since you left him at Barton ?"
" Yes ," he replied gravely , " once I have .
One meeting was unavoidable ."
Elinor , startled by his manner , looked at him anxiously , saying ,
" What ?
have you met him to --"
" I could meet him no other way .
Eliza had confessed to me , though most reluctantly , the name of her lover ; and when he returned to town , which was within a fortnight after myself , we met by appointment , he to defend , I to punish his conduct .
We returned unwounded , and the meeting , therefore , never got abroad ."
Elinor sighed over the fancied necessity of this ; but to a man and a soldier she presumed not to censure it .
" Such ," said Colonel Brandon , after a pause , " has been the unhappy resemblance between the fate of mother and daughter !
and so imperfectly have I discharged my trust !"
" Is she still in town ?"
" No ; as soon as she recovered from her lying - in , for I found her near her delivery , I removed her and her child into the country , and there she remains ."
Recollecting , soon afterwards , that he was probably dividing Elinor from her sister , he put an end to his visit , receiving from her again the same grateful acknowledgments , and leaving her full of compassion and esteem for him .
CHAPTER 32
When the particulars of this conversation were repeated by Miss Dashwood to her sister , as they very soon were , the effect on her was not entirely such as the former had hoped to see .
Not that Marianne appeared to distrust the truth of any part of it , for she listened to it all with the most steady and submissive attention , made neither objection nor remark , attempted no vindication of Willoughby , and seemed to shew by her tears that she felt it to be impossible .
But though this behaviour assured Elinor that the conviction of this guilt WAS carried home to her mind , though she saw with satisfaction the effect of it , in her no longer avoiding Colonel Brandon when he called , in her speaking to him , even voluntarily speaking , with a kind of compassionate respect , and though she saw her spirits less violently irritated than before , she did not see her less wretched .
Her mind did become settled , but it was settled in a gloomy dejection .
She felt the loss of Willoughby ' s character yet more heavily than she had felt the loss of his heart ; his seduction and desertion of Miss Williams , the misery of that poor girl , and the doubt of what his designs might ONCE have been on herself , preyed altogether so much on her spirits , that she could not bring herself to speak of what she felt even to Elinor ; and , brooding over her sorrows in silence , gave more pain to her sister than could have been communicated by the most open and most frequent confession of them .
To give the feelings or the language of Mrs . Dashwood on receiving and answering Elinor ' s letter would be only to give a repetition of what her daughters had already felt and said ; of a disappointment hardly less painful than Marianne ' s , and an indignation even greater than Elinor ' s .
Long letters from her , quickly succeeding each other , arrived to tell all that she suffered and thought ; to express her anxious solicitude for Marianne , and entreat she would bear up with fortitude under this misfortune .
Bad indeed must the nature of Marianne ' s affliction be , when her mother could talk of fortitude !
mortifying and humiliating must be the origin of those regrets , which SHE could wish her not to indulge !
Against the interest of her own individual comfort , Mrs . Dashwood had determined that it would be better for Marianne to be any where , at that time , than at Barton , where every thing within her view would be bringing back the past in the strongest and most afflicting manner , by constantly placing Willoughby before her , such as she had always seen him there .
She recommended it to her daughters , therefore , by all means not to shorten their visit to Mrs . Jennings ; the length of which , though never exactly fixed , had been expected by all to comprise at least five or six weeks .
A variety of occupations , of objects , and of company , which could not be procured at Barton , would be inevitable there , and might yet , she hoped , cheat Marianne , at times , into some interest beyond herself , and even into some amusement , much as the ideas of both might now be spurned by her .
From all danger of seeing Willoughby again , her mother considered her to be at least equally safe in town as in the country , since his acquaintance must now be dropped by all who called themselves her friends .
Design could never bring them in each other ' s way : negligence could never leave them exposed to a surprise ; and chance had less in its favour in the crowd of London than even in the retirement of Barton , where it might force him before her while paying that visit at Allenham on his marriage , which Mrs . Dashwood , from foreseeing at first as a probable event , had brought herself to expect as a certain one .
She had yet another reason for wishing her children to remain where they were ; a letter from her son - in - law had told her that he and his wife were to be in town before the middle of February , and she judged it right that they should sometimes see their brother .
Marianne had promised to be guided by her mother ' s opinion , and she submitted to it therefore without opposition , though it proved perfectly different from what she wished and expected , though she felt it to be entirely wrong , formed on mistaken grounds , and that by requiring her longer continuance in London it deprived her of the only possible alleviation of her wretchedness , the personal sympathy of her mother , and doomed her to such society and such scenes as must prevent her ever knowing a moment ' s rest .
But it was a matter of great consolation to her , that what brought evil to herself would bring good to her sister ; and Elinor , on the other hand , suspecting that it would not be in her power to avoid Edward entirely , comforted herself by thinking , that though their longer stay would therefore militate against her own happiness , it would be better for Marianne than an immediate return into Devonshire .
Her carefulness in guarding her sister from ever hearing Willoughby ' s name mentioned , was not thrown away .
Marianne , though without knowing it herself , reaped all its advantage ; for neither Mrs . Jennings , nor Sir John , nor even Mrs . Palmer herself , ever spoke of him before her .
Elinor wished that the same forbearance could have extended towards herself , but that was impossible , and she was obliged to listen day after day to the indignation of them all .
Sir John , could not have thought it possible .
" A man of whom he had always had such reason to think well !
Such a good - natured fellow !
He did not believe there was a bolder rider in England !
It was an unaccountable business .
He wished him at the devil with all his heart .
He would not speak another word to him , meet him where he might , for all the world !
No , not if it were to be by the side of Barton covert , and they were kept watching for two hours together .
Such a scoundrel of a fellow !
such a deceitful dog !
It was only the last time they met that he had offered him one of Folly ' s puppies !
and this was the end of it !"
Mrs . Palmer , in her way , was equally angry .
" She was determined to drop his acquaintance immediately , and she was very thankful that she had never been acquainted with him at all .
She wished with all her heart Combe Magna was not so near Cleveland ; but it did not signify , for it was a great deal too far off to visit ; she hated him so much that she was resolved never to mention his name again , and she should tell everybody she saw , how good - for - nothing he was ."
The rest of Mrs . Palmer ' s sympathy was shewn in procuring all the particulars in her power of the approaching marriage , and communicating them to Elinor .
She could soon tell at what coachmaker ' s the new carriage was building , by what painter Mr . Willoughby ' s portrait was drawn , and at what warehouse Miss Grey ' s clothes might be seen .
The calm and polite unconcern of Lady Middleton on the occasion was a happy relief to Elinor ' s spirits , oppressed as they often were by the clamorous kindness of the others .
It was a great comfort to her to be sure of exciting no interest in ONE person at least among their circle of friends : a great comfort to know that there was ONE who would meet her without feeling any curiosity after particulars , or any anxiety for her sister ' s health .
Every qualification is raised at times , by the circumstances of the moment , to more than its real value ; and she was sometimes worried down by officious condolence to rate good - breeding as more indispensable to comfort than good - nature .
Lady Middleton expressed her sense of the affair about once every day , or twice , if the subject occurred very often , by saying , " It is very shocking , indeed !"
and by the means of this continual though gentle vent , was able not only to see the Miss Dashwoods from the first without the smallest emotion , but very soon to see them without recollecting a word of the matter ; and having thus supported the dignity of her own sex , and spoken her decided censure of what was wrong in the other , she thought herself at liberty to attend to the interest of her own assemblies , and therefore determined ( though rather against the opinion of Sir John ) that as Mrs . Willoughby would at once be a woman of elegance and fortune , to leave her card with her as soon as she married .
Colonel Brandon ' s delicate , unobtrusive enquiries were never unwelcome to Miss Dashwood .
He had abundantly earned the privilege of intimate discussion of her sister ' s disappointment , by the friendly zeal with which he had endeavoured to soften it , and they always conversed with confidence .
His chief reward for the painful exertion of disclosing past sorrows and present humiliations , was given in the pitying eye with which Marianne sometimes observed him , and the gentleness of her voice whenever ( though it did not often happen ) she was obliged , or could oblige herself to speak to him .
THESE assured him that his exertion had produced an increase of good - will towards himself , and THESE gave Elinor hopes of its being farther augmented hereafter ; but Mrs . Jennings , who knew nothing of all this , who knew only that the Colonel continued as grave as ever , and that she could neither prevail on him to make the offer himself , nor commission her to make it for him , began , at the end of two days , to think that , instead of Midsummer , they would not be married till Michaelmas , and by the end of a week that it would not be a match at all .
The good understanding between the Colonel and Miss Dashwood seemed rather to declare that the honours of the mulberry - tree , the canal , and the yew arbour , would all be made over to HER ; and Mrs . Jennings had , for some time ceased to think at all of Mrs . Ferrars .
Early in February , within a fortnight from the receipt of Willoughby ' s letter , Elinor had the painful office of informing her sister that he was married .
She had taken care to have the intelligence conveyed to herself , as soon as it was known that the ceremony was over , as she was desirous that Marianne should not receive the first notice of it from the public papers , which she saw her eagerly examining every morning .
She received the news with resolute composure ; made no observation on it , and at first shed no tears ; but after a short time they would burst out , and for the rest of the day , she was in a state hardly less pitiable than when she first learnt to expect the event .
The Willoughbys left town as soon as they were married ; and Elinor now hoped , as there could be no danger of her seeing either of them , to prevail on her sister , who had never yet left the house since the blow first fell , to go out again by degrees as she had done before .
About this time the two Miss Steeles , lately arrived at their cousin ' s house in Bartlett ' s Buildings , Holburn , presented themselves again before their more grand relations in Conduit and Berkeley Streets ; and were welcomed by them all with great cordiality .
Elinor only was sorry to see them .
Their presence always gave her pain , and she hardly knew how to make a very gracious return to the overpowering delight of Lucy in finding her STILL in town .
" I should have been quite disappointed if I had not found you here STILL ," said she repeatedly , with a strong emphasis on the word .
" But I always thought I SHOULD .
I was almost sure you would not leave London yet awhile ; though you TOLD me , you know , at Barton , that you should not stay above a MONTH .
But I thought , at the time , that you would most likely change your mind when it came to the point .
It would have been such a great pity to have went away before your brother and sister came .
And now to be sure you will be in no hurry to be gone .
I am amazingly glad you did not keep to YOUR WORD ."
Elinor perfectly understood her , and was forced to use all her self - command to make it appear that she did NOT .
" Well , my dear ," said Mrs . Jennings , " and how did you travel ?"
" Not in the stage , I assure you ," replied Miss Steele , with quick exultation ; " we came post all the way , and had a very smart beau to attend us .
Dr . Davies was coming to town , and so we thought we ' d join him in a post - chaise ; and he behaved very genteelly , and paid ten or twelve shillings more than we did ."
" Oh , oh !"
cried Mrs . Jennings ; " very pretty , indeed !
and the Doctor is a single man , I warrant you ."
" There now ," said Miss Steele , affectedly simpering , " everybody laughs at me so about the Doctor , and I cannot think why .
My cousins say they are sure I have made a conquest ; but for my part I declare I never think about him from one hour ' s end to another .
' Lord !
here comes your beau , Nancy ,' my cousin said t ' other day , when she saw him crossing the street to the house .
My beau , indeed !
said I -- I cannot think who you mean .
The Doctor is no beau of mine ."
" Aye , aye , that is very pretty talking -- but it won ' t do -- the Doctor is the man , I see ."
" No , indeed !"
replied her cousin , with affected earnestness , " and I beg you will contradict it , if you ever hear it talked of ."
Mrs . Jennings directly gave her the gratifying assurance that she certainly would NOT , and Miss Steele was made completely happy .
" I suppose you will go and stay with your brother and sister , Miss Dashwood , when they come to town ," said Lucy , returning , after a cessation of hostile hints , to the charge .
" No , I do not think we shall ."
" Oh , yes , I dare say you will ."
Elinor would not humour her by farther opposition .
" What a charming thing it is that Mrs . Dashwood can spare you both for so long a time together !"
" Long a time , indeed !"
interposed Mrs . Jennings .
" Why , their visit is but just begun !"
Lucy was silenced .
" I am sorry we cannot see your sister , Miss Dashwood ," said Miss Steele .
" I am sorry she is not well --" for Marianne had left the room on their arrival .
" You are very good .
My sister will be equally sorry to miss the pleasure of seeing you ; but she has been very much plagued lately with nervous head - aches , which make her unfit for company or conversation ."
" Oh , dear , that is a great pity !
but such old friends as Lucy and me !-- I think she might see US ; and I am sure we would not speak a word ."
Elinor , with great civility , declined the proposal .
Her sister was perhaps laid down upon the bed , or in her dressing gown , and therefore not able to come to them .
" Oh , if that ' s all ," cried Miss Steele , " we can just as well go and see HER ."
Elinor began to find this impertinence too much for her temper ; but she was saved the trouble of checking it , by Lucy ' s sharp reprimand , which now , as on many occasions , though it did not give much sweetness to the manners of one sister , was of advantage in governing those of the other .
CHAPTER 33
After some opposition , Marianne yielded to her sister ' s entreaties , and consented to go out with her and Mrs . Jennings one morning for half an hour .
She expressly conditioned , however , for paying no visits , and would do no more than accompany them to Gray ' s in Sackville Street , where Elinor was carrying on a negotiation for the exchange of a few old - fashioned jewels of her mother .
When they stopped at the door , Mrs . Jennings recollected that there was a lady at the other end of the street on whom she ought to call ; and as she had no business at Gray ' s , it was resolved , that while her young friends transacted their ' s , she should pay her visit and return for them .
On ascending the stairs , the Miss Dashwoods found so many people before them in the room , that there was not a person at liberty to tend to their orders ; and they were obliged to wait .
All that could be done was , to sit down at that end of the counter which seemed to promise the quickest succession ; one gentleman only was standing there , and it is probable that Elinor was not without hope of exciting his politeness to a quicker despatch .
But the correctness of his eye , and the delicacy of his taste , proved to be beyond his politeness .
He was giving orders for a toothpick - case for himself , and till its size , shape , and ornaments were determined , all of which , after examining and debating for a quarter of an hour over every toothpick - case in the shop , were finally arranged by his own inventive fancy , he had no leisure to bestow any other attention on the two ladies , than what was comprised in three or four very broad stares ; a kind of notice which served to imprint on Elinor the remembrance of a person and face , of strong , natural , sterling insignificance , though adorned in the first style of fashion .
Marianne was spared from the troublesome feelings of contempt and resentment , on this impertinent examination of their features , and on the puppyism of his manner in deciding on all the different horrors of the different toothpick - cases presented to his inspection , by remaining unconscious of it all ; for she was as well able to collect her thoughts within herself , and be as ignorant of what was passing around her , in Mr . Gray ' s shop , as in her own bedroom .
At last the affair was decided .
The ivory , the gold , and the pearls , all received their appointment , and the gentleman having named the last day on which his existence could be continued without the possession of the toothpick - case , drew on his gloves with leisurely care , and bestowing another glance on the Miss Dashwoods , but such a one as seemed rather to demand than express admiration , walked off with a happy air of real conceit and affected indifference .
Elinor lost no time in bringing her business forward , was on the point of concluding it , when another gentleman presented himself at her side .
She turned her eyes towards his face , and found him with some surprise to be her brother .
Their affection and pleasure in meeting was just enough to make a very creditable appearance in Mr . Gray ' s shop .
John Dashwood was really far from being sorry to see his sisters again ; it rather gave them satisfaction ; and his inquiries after their mother were respectful and attentive .
Elinor found that he and Fanny had been in town two days .
" I wished very much to call upon you yesterday ," said he , " but it was impossible , for we were obliged to take Harry to see the wild beasts at Exeter Exchange ; and we spent the rest of the day with Mrs . Ferrars .
Harry was vastly pleased .
THIS morning I had fully intended to call on you , if I could possibly find a spare half hour , but one has always so much to do on first coming to town .
I am come here to bespeak Fanny a seal .
But tomorrow I think I shall certainly be able to call in Berkeley Street , and be introduced to your friend Mrs . Jennings .
I understand she is a woman of very good fortune .
And the Middletons too , you must introduce me to THEM .
As my mother - in - law ' s relations , I shall be happy to show them every respect .
They are excellent neighbours to you in the country , I understand ."
" Excellent indeed .
Their attention to our comfort , their friendliness in every particular , is more than I can express ."
" I am extremely glad to hear it , upon my word ; extremely glad indeed .
But so it ought to be ; they are people of large fortune , they are related to you , and every civility and accommodation that can serve to make your situation pleasant might be reasonably expected .
And so you are most comfortably settled in your little cottage and want for nothing !
Edward brought us a most charming account of the place : the most complete thing of its kind , he said , that ever was , and you all seemed to enjoy it beyond any thing .
It was a great satisfaction to us to hear it , I assure you ."
Elinor did feel a little ashamed of her brother ; and was not sorry to be spared the necessity of answering him , by the arrival of Mrs . Jennings ' s servant , who came to tell her that his mistress waited for them at the door .
Mr . Dashwood attended them down stairs , was introduced to Mrs . Jennings at the door of her carriage , and repeating his hope of being able to call on them the next day , took leave .
His visit was duly paid .
He came with a pretence at an apology from their sister - in - law , for not coming too ; " but she was so much engaged with her mother , that really she had no leisure for going any where ."
Mrs . Jennings , however , assured him directly , that she should not stand upon ceremony , for they were all cousins , or something like it , and she should certainly wait on Mrs . John Dashwood very soon , and bring her sisters to see her .
His manners to THEM , though calm , were perfectly kind ; to Mrs . Jennings , most attentively civil ; and on Colonel Brandon ' s coming in soon after himself , he eyed him with a curiosity which seemed to say , that he only wanted to know him to be rich , to be equally civil to HIM .
After staying with them half an hour , he asked Elinor to walk with him to Conduit Street , and introduce him to Sir John and Lady Middleton .
The weather was remarkably fine , and she readily consented .
As soon as they were out of the house , his enquiries began .
" Who is Colonel Brandon ?
Is he a man of fortune ?"
" Yes ; he has very good property in Dorsetshire ."
" I am glad of it .
He seems a most gentlemanlike man ; and I think , Elinor , I may congratulate you on the prospect of a very respectable establishment in life ."
" Me , brother !
what do you mean ?"
" He likes you .
I observed him narrowly , and am convinced of it .
What is the amount of his fortune ?"
" I believe about two thousand a year ."
" Two thousand a - year ;" and then working himself up to a pitch of enthusiastic generosity , he added , " Elinor , I wish with all my heart it were TWICE as much , for your sake ."
" Indeed I believe you ," replied Elinor ; " but I am very sure that Colonel Brandon has not the smallest wish of marrying ME ."
" You are mistaken , Elinor ; you are very much mistaken .
A very little trouble on your side secures him .
Perhaps just at present he may be undecided ; the smallness of your fortune may make him hang back ; his friends may all advise him against it .
But some of those little attentions and encouragements which ladies can so easily give will fix him , in spite of himself .
And there can be no reason why you should not try for him .
It is not to be supposed that any prior attachment on your side -- in short , you know as to an attachment of that kind , it is quite out of the question , the objections are insurmountable -- you have too much sense not to see all that .
Colonel Brandon must be the man ; and no civility shall be wanting on my part to make him pleased with you and your family .
It is a match that must give universal satisfaction .
In short , it is a kind of thing that "-- lowering his voice to an important whisper --" will be exceedingly welcome to ALL PARTIES ."
Recollecting himself , however , he added , " That is , I mean to say -- your friends are all truly anxious to see you well settled ; Fanny particularly , for she has your interest very much at heart , I assure you .
And her mother too , Mrs . Ferrars , a very good - natured woman , I am sure it would give her great pleasure ; she said as much the other day ."
Elinor would not vouchsafe any answer .
" It would be something remarkable , now ," he continued , " something droll , if Fanny should have a brother and I a sister settling at the same time .
And yet it is not very unlikely ."
" Is Mr . Edward Ferrars ," said Elinor , with resolution , " going to be married ?"
" It is not actually settled , but there is such a thing in agitation .
He has a most excellent mother .
Mrs . Ferrars , with the utmost liberality , will come forward , and settle on him a thousand a year , if the match takes place .
The lady is the Hon .
Miss Morton , only daughter of the late Lord Morton , with thirty thousand pounds .
A very desirable connection on both sides , and I have not a doubt of its taking place in time .
A thousand a - year is a great deal for a mother to give away , to make over for ever ; but Mrs . Ferrars has a noble spirit .
To give you another instance of her liberality :-- The other day , as soon as we came to town , aware that money could not be very plenty with us just now , she put bank - notes into Fanny ' s hands to the amount of two hundred pounds .
And extremely acceptable it is , for we must live at a great expense while we are here ."
He paused for her assent and compassion ; and she forced herself to say ,
" Your expenses both in town and country must certainly be considerable ; but your income is a large one ."
" Not so large , I dare say , as many people suppose .
I do not mean to complain , however ; it is undoubtedly a comfortable one , and I hope will in time be better .
The enclosure of Norland Common , now carrying on , is a most serious drain .
And then I have made a little purchase within this half year ; East Kingham Farm , you must remember the place , where old Gibson used to live .
The land was so very desirable for me in every respect , so immediately adjoining my own property , that I felt it my duty to buy it .
I could not have answered it to my conscience to let it fall into any other hands .
A man must pay for his convenience ; and it HAS cost me a vast deal of money ."
" More than you think it really and intrinsically worth ."
" Why , I hope not that .
I might have sold it again , the next day , for more than I gave : but , with regard to the purchase - money , I might have been very unfortunate indeed ; for the stocks were at that time so low , that if I had not happened to have the necessary sum in my banker ' s hands , I must have sold out to very great loss ."
Elinor could only smile .
" Other great and inevitable expenses too we have had on first coming to Norland .
Our respected father , as you well know , bequeathed all the Stanhill effects that remained at Norland ( and very valuable they were ) to your mother .
Far be it from me to repine at his doing so ; he had an undoubted right to dispose of his own property as he chose , but , in consequence of it , we have been obliged to make large purchases of linen , china , & c . to supply the place of what was taken away .
You may guess , after all these expenses , how very far we must be from being rich , and how acceptable Mrs . Ferrars ' s kindness is ."
" Certainly ," said Elinor ; " and assisted by her liberality , I hope you may yet live to be in easy circumstances ."
" Another year or two may do much towards it ," he gravely replied ; " but however there is still a great deal to be done .
There is not a stone laid of Fanny ' s green - house , and nothing but the plan of the flower - garden marked out ."
" Where is the green - house to be ?"
" Upon the knoll behind the house .
The old walnut trees are all come down to make room for it .
It will be a very fine object from many parts of the park , and the flower - garden will slope down just before it , and be exceedingly pretty .
We have cleared away all the old thorns that grew in patches over the brow ."
Elinor kept her concern and her censure to herself ; and was very thankful that Marianne was not present , to share the provocation .
Having now said enough to make his poverty clear , and to do away the necessity of buying a pair of ear - rings for each of his sisters , in his next visit at Gray ' s his thoughts took a cheerfuller turn , and he began to congratulate Elinor on having such a friend as Mrs . Jennings .
" She seems a most valuable woman indeed -- Her house , her style of living , all bespeak an exceeding good income ; and it is an acquaintance that has not only been of great use to you hitherto , but in the end may prove materially advantageous .-- Her inviting you to town is certainly a vast thing in your favour ; and indeed , it speaks altogether so great a regard for you , that in all probability when she dies you will not be forgotten .-- She must have a great deal to leave ."
" Nothing at all , I should rather suppose ; for she has only her jointure , which will descend to her children ."
" But it is not to be imagined that she lives up to her income .
Few people of common prudence will do THAT ; and whatever she saves , she will be able to dispose of ."
" And do you not think it more likely that she should leave it to her daughters , than to us ?"
" Her daughters are both exceedingly well married , and therefore I cannot perceive the necessity of her remembering them farther .
Whereas , in my opinion , by her taking so much notice of you , and treating you in this kind of way , she has given you a sort of claim on her future consideration , which a conscientious woman would not disregard .
Nothing can be kinder than her behaviour ; and she can hardly do all this , without being aware of the expectation it raises ."
" But she raises none in those most concerned .
Indeed , brother , your anxiety for our welfare and prosperity carries you too far ."
" Why , to be sure ," said he , seeming to recollect himself , " people have little , have very little in their power .
But , my dear Elinor , what is the matter with Marianne ?-- she looks very unwell , has lost her colour , and is grown quite thin .
Is she ill ?"
" She is not well , she has had a nervous complaint on her for several weeks ."
" I am sorry for that .
At her time of life , any thing of an illness destroys the bloom for ever !
Her ' s has been a very short one !
She was as handsome a girl last September , as I ever saw ; and as likely to attract the man .
There was something in her style of beauty , to please them particularly .
I remember Fanny used to say that she would marry sooner and better than you did ; not but what she is exceedingly fond of YOU , but so it happened to strike her .
She will be mistaken , however .
I question whether Marianne NOW , will marry a man worth more than five or six hundred a - year , at the utmost , and I am very much deceived if YOU do not do better .
Dorsetshire !
I know very little of Dorsetshire ; but , my dear Elinor , I shall be exceedingly glad to know more of it ; and I think I can answer for your having Fanny and myself among the earliest and best pleased of your visitors ."
Elinor tried very seriously to convince him that there was no likelihood of her marrying Colonel Brandon ; but it was an expectation of too much pleasure to himself to be relinquished , and he was really resolved on seeking an intimacy with that gentleman , and promoting the marriage by every possible attention .
He had just compunction enough for having done nothing for his sisters himself , to be exceedingly anxious that everybody else should do a great deal ; and an offer from Colonel Brandon , or a legacy from Mrs . Jennings , was the easiest means of atoning for his own neglect .
They were lucky enough to find Lady Middleton at home , and Sir John came in before their visit ended .
Abundance of civilities passed on all sides .
Sir John was ready to like anybody , and though Mr . Dashwood did not seem to know much about horses , he soon set him down as a very good - natured fellow : while Lady Middleton saw enough of fashion in his appearance to think his acquaintance worth having ; and Mr . Dashwood went away delighted with both .
" I shall have a charming account to carry to Fanny ," said he , as he walked back with his sister .
" Lady Middleton is really a most elegant woman !
Such a woman as I am sure Fanny will be glad to know .
And Mrs . Jennings too , an exceedingly well - behaved woman , though not so elegant as her daughter .
Your sister need not have any scruple even of visiting HER , which , to say the truth , has been a little the case , and very naturally ; for we only knew that Mrs . Jennings was the widow of a man who had got all his money in a low way ; and Fanny and Mrs . Ferrars were both strongly prepossessed , that neither she nor her daughters were such kind of women as Fanny would like to associate with .
But now I can carry her a most satisfactory account of both ."
CHAPTER 34
Mrs . John Dashwood had so much confidence in her husband ' s judgment , that she waited the very next day both on Mrs . Jennings and her daughter ; and her confidence was rewarded by finding even the former , even the woman with whom her sisters were staying , by no means unworthy her notice ; and as for Lady Middleton , she found her one of the most charming women in the world !
Lady Middleton was equally pleased with Mrs . Dashwood .
There was a kind of cold hearted selfishness on both sides , which mutually attracted them ; and they sympathised with each other in an insipid propriety of demeanor , and a general want of understanding .
The same manners , however , which recommended Mrs . John Dashwood to the good opinion of Lady Middleton did not suit the fancy of Mrs . Jennings , and to HER she appeared nothing more than a little proud - looking woman of uncordial address , who met her husband ' s sisters without any affection , and almost without having anything to say to them ; for of the quarter of an hour bestowed on Berkeley Street , she sat at least seven minutes and a half in silence .
Elinor wanted very much to know , though she did not chuse to ask , whether Edward was then in town ; but nothing would have induced Fanny voluntarily to mention his name before her , till able to tell her that his marriage with Miss Morton was resolved on , or till her husband ' s expectations on Colonel Brandon were answered ; because she believed them still so very much attached to each other , that they could not be too sedulously divided in word and deed on every occasion .
The intelligence however , which SHE would not give , soon flowed from another quarter .
Lucy came very shortly to claim Elinor ' s compassion on being unable to see Edward , though he had arrived in town with Mr . and Mrs . Dashwood .
He dared not come to Bartlett ' s Buildings for fear of detection , and though their mutual impatience to meet , was not to be told , they could do nothing at present but write .
Edward assured them himself of his being in town , within a very short time , by twice calling in Berkeley Street .
Twice was his card found on the table , when they returned from their morning ' s engagements .
Elinor was pleased that he had called ; and still more pleased that she had missed him .
The Dashwoods were so prodigiously delighted with the Middletons , that , though not much in the habit of giving anything , they determined to give them -- a dinner ; and soon after their acquaintance began , invited them to dine in Harley Street , where they had taken a very good house for three months .
Their sisters and Mrs . Jennings were invited likewise , and John Dashwood was careful to secure Colonel Brandon , who , always glad to be where the Miss Dashwoods were , received his eager civilities with some surprise , but much more pleasure .
They were to meet Mrs . Ferrars ; but Elinor could not learn whether her sons were to be of the party .
The expectation of seeing HER , however , was enough to make her interested in the engagement ; for though she could now meet Edward ' s mother without that strong anxiety which had once promised to attend such an introduction , though she could now see her with perfect indifference as to her opinion of herself , her desire of being in company with Mrs . Ferrars , her curiosity to know what she was like , was as lively as ever .
The interest with which she thus anticipated the party , was soon afterwards increased , more powerfully than pleasantly , by her hearing that the Miss Steeles were also to be at it .
So well had they recommended themselves to Lady Middleton , so agreeable had their assiduities made them to her , that though Lucy was certainly not so elegant , and her sister not even genteel , she was as ready as Sir John to ask them to spend a week or two in Conduit Street ; and it happened to be particularly convenient to the Miss Steeles , as soon as the Dashwoods ' invitation was known , that their visit should begin a few days before the party took place .
Their claims to the notice of Mrs . John Dashwood , as the nieces of the gentleman who for many years had had the care of her brother , might not have done much , however , towards procuring them seats at her table ; but as Lady Middleton ' s guests they must be welcome ; and Lucy , who had long wanted to be personally known to the family , to have a nearer view of their characters and her own difficulties , and to have an opportunity of endeavouring to please them , had seldom been happier in her life , than she was on receiving Mrs . John Dashwood ' s card .
On Elinor its effect was very different .
She began immediately to determine , that Edward who lived with his mother , must be asked as his mother was , to a party given by his sister ; and to see him for the first time , after all that passed , in the company of Lucy !-- she hardly knew how she could bear it !
These apprehensions , perhaps , were not founded entirely on reason , and certainly not at all on truth .
They were relieved however , not by her own recollection , but by the good will of Lucy , who believed herself to be inflicting a severe disappointment when she told her that Edward certainly would not be in Harley Street on Tuesday , and even hoped to be carrying the pain still farther by persuading her that he was kept away by the extreme affection for herself , which he could not conceal when they were together .
The important Tuesday came that was to introduce the two young ladies to this formidable mother - in - law .
" Pity me , dear Miss Dashwood !"
said Lucy , as they walked up the stairs together -- for the Middletons arrived so directly after Mrs . Jennings , that they all followed the servant at the same time --" There is nobody here but you , that can feel for me .-- I declare I can hardly stand .
Good gracious !-- In a moment I shall see the person that all my happiness depends on -- that is to be my mother !"
--
Elinor could have given her immediate relief by suggesting the possibility of its being Miss Morton ' s mother , rather than her own , whom they were about to behold ; but instead of doing that , she assured her , and with great sincerity , that she did pity her -- to the utter amazement of Lucy , who , though really uncomfortable herself , hoped at least to be an object of irrepressible envy to Elinor .
Mrs . Ferrars was a little , thin woman , upright , even to formality , in her figure , and serious , even to sourness , in her aspect .
Her complexion was sallow ; and her features small , without beauty , and naturally without expression ; but a lucky contraction of the brow had rescued her countenance from the disgrace of insipidity , by giving it the strong characters of pride and ill nature .
She was not a woman of many words ; for , unlike people in general , she proportioned them to the number of her ideas ; and of the few syllables that did escape her , not one fell to the share of Miss Dashwood , whom she eyed with the spirited determination of disliking her at all events .
Elinor could not NOW be made unhappy by this behaviour .-- A few months ago it would have hurt her exceedingly ; but it was not in Mrs . Ferrars ' power to distress her by it now ;-- and the difference of her manners to the Miss Steeles , a difference which seemed purposely made to humble her more , only amused her .
She could not but smile to see the graciousness of both mother and daughter towards the very person -- for Lucy was particularly distinguished -- whom of all others , had they known as much as she did , they would have been most anxious to mortify ; while she herself , who had comparatively no power to wound them , sat pointedly slighted by both .
But while she smiled at a graciousness so misapplied , she could not reflect on the mean - spirited folly from which it sprung , nor observe the studied attentions with which the Miss Steeles courted its continuance , without thoroughly despising them all four .
Lucy was all exultation on being so honorably distinguished ; and Miss Steele wanted only to be teazed about Dr . Davies to be perfectly happy .
The dinner was a grand one , the servants were numerous , and every thing bespoke the Mistress ' s inclination for show , and the Master ' s ability to support it .
In spite of the improvements and additions which were making to the Norland estate , and in spite of its owner having once been within some thousand pounds of being obliged to sell out at a loss , nothing gave any symptom of that indigence which he had tried to infer from it ;-- no poverty of any kind , except of conversation , appeared -- but there , the deficiency was considerable .
John Dashwood had not much to say for himself that was worth hearing , and his wife had still less .
But there was no peculiar disgrace in this ; for it was very much the case with the chief of their visitors , who almost all laboured under one or other of these disqualifications for being agreeable -- Want of sense , either natural or improved -- want of elegance -- want of spirits -- or want of temper .
When the ladies withdrew to the drawing - room after dinner , this poverty was particularly evident , for the gentlemen HAD supplied the discourse with some variety -- the variety of politics , inclosing land , and breaking horses -- but then it was all over ; and one subject only engaged the ladies till coffee came in , which was the comparative heights of Harry Dashwood , and Lady Middleton ' s second son William , who were nearly of the same age .
Had both the children been there , the affair might have been determined too easily by measuring them at once ; but as Harry only was present , it was all conjectural assertion on both sides ; and every body had a right to be equally positive in their opinion , and to repeat it over and over again as often as they liked .
The parties stood thus :
The two mothers , though each really convinced that her own son was the tallest , politely decided in favour of the other .
The two grandmothers , with not less partiality , but more sincerity , were equally earnest in support of their own descendant .
Lucy , who was hardly less anxious to please one parent than the other , thought the boys were both remarkably tall for their age , and could not conceive that there could be the smallest difference in the world between them ; and Miss Steele , with yet greater address gave it , as fast as she could , in favour of each .
Elinor , having once delivered her opinion on William ' s side , by which she offended Mrs . Ferrars and Fanny still more , did not see the necessity of enforcing it by any farther assertion ; and Marianne , when called on for her ' s , offended them all , by declaring that she had no opinion to give , as she had never thought about it .
Before her removing from Norland , Elinor had painted a very pretty pair of screens for her sister - in - law , which being now just mounted and brought home , ornamented her present drawing room ; and these screens , catching the eye of John Dashwood on his following the other gentlemen into the room , were officiously handed by him to Colonel Brandon for his admiration .
" These are done by my eldest sister ," said he ; " and you , as a man of taste , will , I dare say , be pleased with them .
I do not know whether you have ever happened to see any of her performances before , but she is in general reckoned to draw extremely well ."
The Colonel , though disclaiming all pretensions to connoisseurship , warmly admired the screens , as he would have done any thing painted by Miss Dashwood ; and on the curiosity of the others being of course excited , they were handed round for general inspection .
Mrs . Ferrars , not aware of their being Elinor ' s work , particularly requested to look at them ; and after they had received gratifying testimony of Lady Middletons ' s approbation , Fanny presented them to her mother , considerately informing her , at the same time , that they were done by Miss Dashwood .
" Hum "-- said Mrs . Ferrars --" very pretty ,"-- and without regarding them at all , returned them to her daughter .
Perhaps Fanny thought for a moment that her mother had been quite rude enough ,-- for , colouring a little , she immediately said ,
" They are very pretty , ma ' am -- an ' t they ?"
But then again , the dread of having been too civil , too encouraging herself , probably came over her , for she presently added ,
" Do you not think they are something in Miss Morton ' s style of painting , Ma ' am ?-- She DOES paint most delightfully !-- How beautifully her last landscape is done !"
" Beautifully indeed !
But SHE does every thing well ."
Marianne could not bear this .-- She was already greatly displeased with Mrs . Ferrars ; and such ill - timed praise of another , at Elinor ' s expense , though she had not any notion of what was principally meant by it , provoked her immediately to say with warmth ,
" This is admiration of a very particular kind !-- what is Miss Morton to us ?-- who knows , or who cares , for her ?-- it is Elinor of whom WE think and speak ."
And so saying , she took the screens out of her sister - in - law ' s hands , to admire them herself as they ought to be admired .
Mrs . Ferrars looked exceedingly angry , and drawing herself up more stiffly than ever , pronounced in retort this bitter philippic , " Miss Morton is Lord Morton ' s daughter ."
Fanny looked very angry too , and her husband was all in a fright at his sister ' s audacity .
Elinor was much more hurt by Marianne ' s warmth than she had been by what produced it ; but Colonel Brandon ' s eyes , as they were fixed on Marianne , declared that he noticed only what was amiable in it , the affectionate heart which could not bear to see a sister slighted in the smallest point .
Marianne ' s feelings did not stop here .
The cold insolence of Mrs . Ferrars ' s general behaviour to her sister , seemed , to her , to foretell such difficulties and distresses to Elinor , as her own wounded heart taught her to think of with horror ; and urged by a strong impulse of affectionate sensibility , she moved after a moment , to her sister ' s chair , and putting one arm round her neck , and one cheek close to hers , said in a low , but eager , voice ,
" Dear , dear Elinor , don ' t mind them .
Don ' t let them make YOU unhappy ."
She could say no more ; her spirits were quite overcome , and hiding her face on Elinor ' s shoulder , she burst into tears .
Every body ' s attention was called , and almost every body was concerned .-- Colonel Brandon rose up and went to them without knowing what he did .-- Mrs .
Jennings , with a very intelligent " Ah !
poor dear ," immediately gave her her salts ; and Sir John felt so desperately enraged against the author of this nervous distress , that he instantly changed his seat to one close by Lucy Steele , and gave her , in a whisper , a brief account of the whole shocking affair .
In a few minutes , however , Marianne was recovered enough to put an end to the bustle , and sit down among the rest ; though her spirits retained the impression of what had passed , the whole evening .
" Poor Marianne !"
said her brother to Colonel Brandon , in a low voice , as soon as he could secure his attention ,-- " She has not such good health as her sister ,-- she is very nervous ,-- she has not Elinor ' s constitution ;-- and one must allow that there is something very trying to a young woman who HAS BEEN a beauty in the loss of her personal attractions .
You would not think it perhaps , but Marianne WAS remarkably handsome a few months ago ; quite as handsome as Elinor .-- Now you see it is all gone ."
CHAPTER 35
Elinor ' s curiosity to see Mrs . Ferrars was satisfied .-- She had found in her every thing that could tend to make a farther connection between the families undesirable .-- She had seen enough of her pride , her meanness , and her determined prejudice against herself , to comprehend all the difficulties that must have perplexed the engagement , and retarded the marriage , of Edward and herself , had he been otherwise free ;-- and she had seen almost enough to be thankful for her OWN sake , that one greater obstacle preserved her from suffering under any other of Mrs . Ferrars ' s creation , preserved her from all dependence upon her caprice , or any solicitude for her good opinion .
Or at least , if she did not bring herself quite to rejoice in Edward ' s being fettered to Lucy , she determined , that had Lucy been more amiable , she OUGHT to have rejoiced .
She wondered that Lucy ' s spirits could be so very much elevated by the civility of Mrs . Ferrars ;-- that her interest and her vanity should so very much blind her as to make the attention which seemed only paid her because she was NOT ELINOR , appear a compliment to herself -- or to allow her to derive encouragement from a preference only given her , because her real situation was unknown .
But that it was so , had not only been declared by Lucy ' s eyes at the time , but was declared over again the next morning more openly , for at her particular desire , Lady Middleton set her down in Berkeley Street on the chance of seeing Elinor alone , to tell her how happy she was .
The chance proved a lucky one , for a message from Mrs . Palmer soon after she arrived , carried Mrs . Jennings away .
" My dear friend ," cried Lucy , as soon as they were by themselves , " I come to talk to you of my happiness .
Could anything be so flattering as Mrs . Ferrars ' s way of treating me yesterday ?
So exceeding affable as she was !-- You know how I dreaded the thoughts of seeing her ;-- but the very moment I was introduced , there was such an affability in her behaviour as really should seem to say , she had quite took a fancy to me .
Now was not it so ?-- You saw it all ; and was not you quite struck with it ?"
" She was certainly very civil to you ."
" Civil !-- Did you see nothing but only civility ?-- I saw a vast deal more .
Such kindness as fell to the share of nobody but me !-- No pride , no hauteur , and your sister just the same -- all sweetness and affability !"
Elinor wished to talk of something else , but Lucy still pressed her to own that she had reason for her happiness ; and Elinor was obliged to go on .--
" Undoubtedly , if they had known your engagement ," said she , " nothing could be more flattering than their treatment of you ;-- but as that was not the case "--
" I guessed you would say so "-- replied Lucy quickly --" but there was no reason in the world why Mrs . Ferrars should seem to like me , if she did not , and her liking me is every thing .
You shan ' t talk me out of my satisfaction .
I am sure it will all end well , and there will be no difficulties at all , to what I used to think .
Mrs . Ferrars is a charming woman , and so is your sister .
They are both delightful women , indeed !-- I wonder I should never hear you say how agreeable Mrs . Dashwood was !"
To this Elinor had no answer to make , and did not attempt any .
" Are you ill , Miss Dashwood ?-- you seem low -- you don ' t speak ;-- sure you an ' t well ."
" I never was in better health ."
" I am glad of it with all my heart ; but really you did not look it .
I should be sorry to have YOU ill ; you , that have been the greatest comfort to me in the world !-- Heaven knows what I should have done without your friendship ."
--
Elinor tried to make a civil answer , though doubting her own success .
But it seemed to satisfy Lucy , for she directly replied ,
" Indeed I am perfectly convinced of your regard for me , and next to Edward ' s love , it is the greatest comfort I have .-- Poor Edward !-- But now there is one good thing , we shall be able to meet , and meet pretty often , for Lady Middleton ' s delighted with Mrs . Dashwood , so we shall be a good deal in Harley Street , I dare say , and Edward spends half his time with his sister -- besides , Lady Middleton and Mrs . Ferrars will visit now ;-- and Mrs . Ferrars and your sister were both so good to say more than once , they should always be glad to see me .-- They are such charming women !-- I am sure if ever you tell your sister what I think of her , you cannot speak too high ."
But Elinor would not give her any encouragement to hope that she SHOULD tell her sister .
Lucy continued .
" I am sure I should have seen it in a moment , if Mrs . Ferrars had took a dislike to me .
If she had only made me a formal courtesy , for instance , without saying a word , and never after had took any notice of me , and never looked at me in a pleasant way -- you know what I mean -- if I had been treated in that forbidding sort of way , I should have gave it all up in despair .
I could not have stood it .
For where she DOES dislike , I know it is most violent ."
Elinor was prevented from making any reply to this civil triumph , by the door ' s being thrown open , the servant ' s announcing Mr . Ferrars , and Edward ' s immediately walking in .
It was a very awkward moment ; and the countenance of each shewed that it was so .
They all looked exceedingly foolish ; and Edward seemed to have as great an inclination to walk out of the room again , as to advance farther into it .
The very circumstance , in its unpleasantest form , which they would each have been most anxious to avoid , had fallen on them .-- They were not only all three together , but were together without the relief of any other person .
The ladies recovered themselves first .
It was not Lucy ' s business to put herself forward , and the appearance of secrecy must still be kept up .
She could therefore only LOOK her tenderness , and after slightly addressing him , said no more .
But Elinor had more to do ; and so anxious was she , for his sake and her own , to do it well , that she forced herself , after a moment ' s recollection , to welcome him , with a look and manner that were almost easy , and almost open ; and another struggle , another effort still improved them .
She would not allow the presence of Lucy , nor the consciousness of some injustice towards herself , to deter her from saying that she was happy to see him , and that she had very much regretted being from home , when he called before in Berkeley Street .
She would not be frightened from paying him those attentions which , as a friend and almost a relation , were his due , by the observant eyes of Lucy , though she soon perceived them to be narrowly watching her .
Her manners gave some re - assurance to Edward , and he had courage enough to sit down ; but his embarrassment still exceeded that of the ladies in a proportion , which the case rendered reasonable , though his sex might make it rare ; for his heart had not the indifference of Lucy ' s , nor could his conscience have quite the ease of Elinor ' s .
Lucy , with a demure and settled air , seemed determined to make no contribution to the comfort of the others , and would not say a word ; and almost every thing that WAS said , proceeded from Elinor , who was obliged to volunteer all the information about her mother ' s health , their coming to town , & c . which Edward ought to have inquired about , but never did .
Her exertions did not stop here ; for she soon afterwards felt herself so heroically disposed as to determine , under pretence of fetching Marianne , to leave the others by themselves ; and she really did it , and THAT in the handsomest manner , for she loitered away several minutes on the landing - place , with the most high - minded fortitude , before she went to her sister .
When that was once done , however , it was time for the raptures of Edward to cease ; for Marianne ' s joy hurried her into the drawing - room immediately .
Her pleasure in seeing him was like every other of her feelings , strong in itself , and strongly spoken .
She met him with a hand that would be taken , and a voice that expressed the affection of a sister .
" Dear Edward !"
she cried , " this is a moment of great happiness !-- This would almost make amends for every thing ?"
Edward tried to return her kindness as it deserved , but before such witnesses he dared not say half what he really felt .
Again they all sat down , and for a moment or two all were silent ; while Marianne was looking with the most speaking tenderness , sometimes at Edward and sometimes at Elinor , regretting only that their delight in each other should be checked by Lucy ' s unwelcome presence .
Edward was the first to speak , and it was to notice Marianne ' s altered looks , and express his fear of her not finding London agree with her .
" Oh , don ' t think of me !"
she replied with spirited earnestness , though her eyes were filled with tears as she spoke , " don ' t think of MY health .
Elinor is well , you see .
That must be enough for us both ."
This remark was not calculated to make Edward or Elinor more easy , nor to conciliate the good will of Lucy , who looked up at Marianne with no very benignant expression .
" Do you like London ?"
said Edward , willing to say any thing that might introduce another subject .
" Not at all .
I expected much pleasure in it , but I have found none .
The sight of you , Edward , is the only comfort it has afforded ; and thank Heaven !
you are what you always were !"
She paused -- no one spoke .
" I think , Elinor ," she presently added , " we must employ Edward to take care of us in our return to Barton .
In a week or two , I suppose , we shall be going ; and , I trust , Edward will not be very unwilling to accept the charge ."
Poor Edward muttered something , but what it was , nobody knew , not even himself .
But Marianne , who saw his agitation , and could easily trace it to whatever cause best pleased herself , was perfectly satisfied , and soon talked of something else .
" We spent such a day , Edward , in Harley Street yesterday !
So dull , so wretchedly dull !-- But I have much to say to you on that head , which cannot be said now ."
And with this admirable discretion did she defer the assurance of her finding their mutual relatives more disagreeable than ever , and of her being particularly disgusted with his mother , till they were more in private .
" But why were you not there , Edward ?-- Why did you not come ?"
" I was engaged elsewhere ."
" Engaged !
But what was that , when such friends were to be met ?"
" Perhaps , Miss Marianne ," cried Lucy , eager to take some revenge on her , " you think young men never stand upon engagements , if they have no mind to keep them , little as well as great ."
Elinor was very angry , but Marianne seemed entirely insensible of the sting ; for she calmly replied ,
" Not so , indeed ; for , seriously speaking , I am very sure that conscience only kept Edward from Harley Street .
And I really believe he HAS the most delicate conscience in the world ; the most scrupulous in performing every engagement , however minute , and however it may make against his interest or pleasure .
He is the most fearful of giving pain , of wounding expectation , and the most incapable of being selfish , of any body I ever saw .
Edward , it is so , and I will say it .
What !
are you never to hear yourself praised !-- Then you must be no friend of mine ; for those who will accept of my love and esteem , must submit to my open commendation ."
The nature of her commendation , in the present case , however , happened to be particularly ill - suited to the feelings of two thirds of her auditors , and was so very unexhilarating to Edward , that he very soon got up to go away .
" Going so soon !"
said Marianne ; " my dear Edward , this must not be ."
And drawing him a little aside , she whispered her persuasion that Lucy could not stay much longer .
But even this encouragement failed , for he would go ; and Lucy , who would have outstaid him , had his visit lasted two hours , soon afterwards went away .
" What can bring her here so often ?"
said Marianne , on her leaving them .
" Could not she see that we wanted her gone !-- how teazing to Edward !"
" Why so ?-- we were all his friends , and Lucy has been the longest known to him of any .
It is but natural that he should like to see her as well as ourselves ."
Marianne looked at her steadily , and said , " You know , Elinor , that this is a kind of talking which I cannot bear .
If you only hope to have your assertion contradicted , as I must suppose to be the case , you ought to recollect that I am the last person in the world to do it .
I cannot descend to be tricked out of assurances , that are not really wanted ."
She then left the room ; and Elinor dared not follow her to say more , for bound as she was by her promise of secrecy to Lucy , she could give no information that would convince Marianne ; and painful as the consequences of her still continuing in an error might be , she was obliged to submit to it .
All that she could hope , was that Edward would not often expose her or himself to the distress of hearing Marianne ' s mistaken warmth , nor to the repetition of any other part of the pain that had attended their recent meeting -- and this she had every reason to expect .
CHAPTER 36
Within a few days after this meeting , the newspapers announced to the world , that the lady of Thomas Palmer , Esq .
was safely delivered of a son and heir ; a very interesting and satisfactory paragraph , at least to all those intimate connections who knew it before .
This event , highly important to Mrs . Jennings ' s happiness , produced a temporary alteration in the disposal of her time , and influenced , in a like degree , the engagements of her young friends ; for as she wished to be as much as possible with Charlotte , she went thither every morning as soon as she was dressed , and did not return till late in the evening ; and the Miss Dashwoods , at the particular request of the Middletons , spent the whole of every day , in every day in Conduit Street .
For their own comfort they would much rather have remained , at least all the morning , in Mrs . Jennings ' s house ; but it was not a thing to be urged against the wishes of everybody .
Their hours were therefore made over to Lady Middleton and the two Miss Steeles , by whom their company , in fact was as little valued , as it was professedly sought .
They had too much sense to be desirable companions to the former ; and by the latter they were considered with a jealous eye , as intruding on THEIR ground , and sharing the kindness which they wanted to monopolize .
Though nothing could be more polite than Lady Middleton ' s behaviour to Elinor and Marianne , she did not really like them at all .
Because they neither flattered herself nor her children , she could not believe them good - natured ; and because they were fond of reading , she fancied them satirical : perhaps without exactly knowing what it was to be satirical ; but THAT did not signify .
It was censure in common use , and easily given .
Their presence was a restraint both on her and on Lucy .
It checked the idleness of one , and the business of the other .
Lady Middleton was ashamed of doing nothing before them , and the flattery which Lucy was proud to think of and administer at other times , she feared they would despise her for offering .
Miss Steele was the least discomposed of the three , by their presence ; and it was in their power to reconcile her to it entirely .
Would either of them only have given her a full and minute account of the whole affair between Marianne and Mr . Willoughby , she would have thought herself amply rewarded for the sacrifice of the best place by the fire after dinner , which their arrival occasioned .
But this conciliation was not granted ; for though she often threw out expressions of pity for her sister to Elinor , and more than once dropt a reflection on the inconstancy of beaux before Marianne , no effect was produced , but a look of indifference from the former , or of disgust in the latter .
An effort even yet lighter might have made her their friend .
Would they only have laughed at her about the Doctor !
But so little were they , anymore than the others , inclined to oblige her , that if Sir John dined from home , she might spend a whole day without hearing any other raillery on the subject , than what she was kind enough to bestow on herself .
All these jealousies and discontents , however , were so totally unsuspected by Mrs . Jennings , that she thought it a delightful thing for the girls to be together ; and generally congratulated her young friends every night , on having escaped the company of a stupid old woman so long .
She joined them sometimes at Sir John ' s , sometimes at her own house ; but wherever it was , she always came in excellent spirits , full of delight and importance , attributing Charlotte ' s well doing to her own care , and ready to give so exact , so minute a detail of her situation , as only Miss Steele had curiosity enough to desire .
One thing DID disturb her ; and of that she made her daily complaint .
Mr . Palmer maintained the common , but unfatherly opinion among his sex , of all infants being alike ; and though she could plainly perceive , at different times , the most striking resemblance between this baby and every one of his relations on both sides , there was no convincing his father of it ; no persuading him to believe that it was not exactly like every other baby of the same age ; nor could he even be brought to acknowledge the simple proposition of its being the finest child in the world .
I come now to the relation of a misfortune , which about this time befell Mrs . John Dashwood .
It so happened that while her two sisters with Mrs . Jennings were first calling on her in Harley Street , another of her acquaintance had dropt in -- a circumstance in itself not apparently likely to produce evil to her .
But while the imaginations of other people will carry them away to form wrong judgments of our conduct , and to decide on it by slight appearances , one ' s happiness must in some measure be always at the mercy of chance .
In the present instance , this last - arrived lady allowed her fancy to so far outrun truth and probability , that on merely hearing the name of the Miss Dashwoods , and understanding them to be Mr . Dashwood ' s sisters , she immediately concluded them to be staying in Harley Street ; and this misconstruction produced within a day or two afterwards , cards of invitation for them as well as for their brother and sister , to a small musical party at her house .
The consequence of which was , that Mrs . John Dashwood was obliged to submit not only to the exceedingly great inconvenience of sending her carriage for the Miss Dashwoods , but , what was still worse , must be subject to all the unpleasantness of appearing to treat them with attention : and who could tell that they might not expect to go out with her a second time ?
The power of disappointing them , it was true , must always be her ' s .
But that was not enough ; for when people are determined on a mode of conduct which they know to be wrong , they feel injured by the expectation of any thing better from them .
Marianne had now been brought by degrees , so much into the habit of going out every day , that it was become a matter of indifference to her , whether she went or not : and she prepared quietly and mechanically for every evening ' s engagement , though without expecting the smallest amusement from any , and very often without knowing , till the last moment , where it was to take her .
To her dress and appearance she was grown so perfectly indifferent , as not to bestow half the consideration on it , during the whole of her toilet , which it received from Miss Steele in the first five minutes of their being together , when it was finished .
Nothing escaped HER minute observation and general curiosity ; she saw every thing , and asked every thing ; was never easy till she knew the price of every part of Marianne ' s dress ; could have guessed the number of her gowns altogether with better judgment than Marianne herself , and was not without hopes of finding out before they parted , how much her washing cost per week , and how much she had every year to spend upon herself .
The impertinence of these kind of scrutinies , moreover , was generally concluded with a compliment , which though meant as its douceur , was considered by Marianne as the greatest impertinence of all ; for after undergoing an examination into the value and make of her gown , the colour of her shoes , and the arrangement of her hair , she was almost sure of being told that upon " her word she looked vastly smart , and she dared to say she would make a great many conquests ."
With such encouragement as this , was she dismissed on the present occasion , to her brother ' s carriage ; which they were ready to enter five minutes after it stopped at the door , a punctuality not very agreeable to their sister - in - law , who had preceded them to the house of her acquaintance , and was there hoping for some delay on their part that might inconvenience either herself or her coachman .
The events of this evening were not very remarkable .
The party , like other musical parties , comprehended a great many people who had real taste for the performance , and a great many more who had none at all ; and the performers themselves were , as usual , in their own estimation , and that of their immediate friends , the first private performers in England .
As Elinor was neither musical , nor affecting to be so , she made no scruple of turning her eyes from the grand pianoforte , whenever it suited her , and unrestrained even by the presence of a harp , and violoncello , would fix them at pleasure on any other object in the room .
In one of these excursive glances she perceived among a group of young men , the very he , who had given them a lecture on toothpick - cases at Gray ' s .
She perceived him soon afterwards looking at herself , and speaking familiarly to her brother ; and had just determined to find out his name from the latter , when they both came towards her , and Mr . Dashwood introduced him to her as Mr . Robert Ferrars .
He addressed her with easy civility , and twisted his head into a bow which assured her as plainly as words could have done , that he was exactly the coxcomb she had heard him described to be by Lucy .
Happy had it been for her , if her regard for Edward had depended less on his own merit , than on the merit of his nearest relations !
For then his brother ' s bow must have given the finishing stroke to what the ill - humour of his mother and sister would have begun .
But while she wondered at the difference of the two young men , she did not find that the emptiness of conceit of the one , put her out of all charity with the modesty and worth of the other .
Why they WERE different , Robert exclaimed to her himself in the course of a quarter of an hour ' s conversation ; for , talking of his brother , and lamenting the extreme GAUCHERIE which he really believed kept him from mixing in proper society , he candidly and generously attributed it much less to any natural deficiency , than to the misfortune of a private education ; while he himself , though probably without any particular , any material superiority by nature , merely from the advantage of a public school , was as well fitted to mix in the world as any other man .
" Upon my soul ," he added , " I believe it is nothing more ; and so I often tell my mother , when she is grieving about it .
' My dear Madam ,' I always say to her , ' you must make yourself easy .
The evil is now irremediable , and it has been entirely your own doing .
Why would you be persuaded by my uncle , Sir Robert , against your own judgment , to place Edward under private tuition , at the most critical time of his life ?
If you had only sent him to Westminster as well as myself , instead of sending him to Mr . Pratt ' s , all this would have been prevented .'
This is the way in which I always consider the matter , and my mother is perfectly convinced of her error ."
Elinor would not oppose his opinion , because , whatever might be her general estimation of the advantage of a public school , she could not think of Edward ' s abode in Mr . Pratt ' s family , with any satisfaction .
" You reside in Devonshire , I think ,"-- was his next observation , " in a cottage near Dawlish ."
Elinor set him right as to its situation ; and it seemed rather surprising to him that anybody could live in Devonshire , without living near Dawlish .
He bestowed his hearty approbation however on their species of house .
" For my own part ," said he , " I am excessively fond of a cottage ; there is always so much comfort , so much elegance about them .
And I protest , if I had any money to spare , I should buy a little land and build one myself , within a short distance of London , where I might drive myself down at any time , and collect a few friends about me , and be happy .
I advise every body who is going to build , to build a cottage .
My friend Lord Courtland came to me the other day on purpose to ask my advice , and laid before me three different plans of Bonomi ' s .
I was to decide on the best of them .
' My dear Courtland ,' said I , immediately throwing them all into the fire , ' do not adopt either of them , but by all means build a cottage .'
And that I fancy , will be the end of it .
" Some people imagine that there can be no accommodations , no space in a cottage ; but this is all a mistake .
I was last month at my friend Elliott ' s , near Dartford .
Lady Elliott wished to give a dance .
' But how can it be done ?'
said she ; ' my dear Ferrars , do tell me how it is to be managed .
There is not a room in this cottage that will hold ten couple , and where can the supper be ?'
I immediately saw that there could be no difficulty in it , so I said , ' My dear Lady Elliott , do not be uneasy .
The dining parlour will admit eighteen couple with ease ; card - tables may be placed in the drawing - room ; the library may be open for tea and other refreshments ; and let the supper be set out in the saloon .'
Lady Elliott was delighted with the thought .
We measured the dining - room , and found it would hold exactly eighteen couple , and the affair was arranged precisely after my plan .
So that , in fact , you see , if people do but know how to set about it , every comfort may be as well enjoyed in a cottage as in the most spacious dwelling ."
Elinor agreed to it all , for she did not think he deserved the compliment of rational opposition .
As John Dashwood had no more pleasure in music than his eldest sister , his mind was equally at liberty to fix on any thing else ; and a thought struck him during the evening , which he communicated to his wife , for her approbation , when they got home .
The consideration of Mrs . Dennison ' s mistake , in supposing his sisters their guests , had suggested the propriety of their being really invited to become such , while Mrs . Jenning ' s engagements kept her from home .
The expense would be nothing , the inconvenience not more ; and it was altogether an attention which the delicacy of his conscience pointed out to be requisite to its complete enfranchisement from his promise to his father .
Fanny was startled at the proposal .
" I do not see how it can be done ," said she , " without affronting Lady Middleton , for they spend every day with her ; otherwise I should be exceedingly glad to do it .
You know I am always ready to pay them any attention in my power , as my taking them out this evening shews .
But they are Lady Middleton ' s visitors .
How can I ask them away from her ?"
Her husband , but with great humility , did not see the force of her objection .
" They had already spent a week in this manner in Conduit Street , and Lady Middleton could not be displeased at their giving the same number of days to such near relations ."
Fanny paused a moment , and then , with fresh vigor , said ,
" My love I would ask them with all my heart , if it was in my power .
But I had just settled within myself to ask the Miss Steeles to spend a few days with us .
They are very well behaved , good kind of girls ; and I think the attention is due to them , as their uncle did so very well by Edward .
We can ask your sisters some other year , you know ; but the Miss Steeles may not be in town any more .
I am sure you will like them ; indeed , you DO like them , you know , very much already , and so does my mother ; and they are such favourites with Harry !"
Mr . Dashwood was convinced .
He saw the necessity of inviting the Miss Steeles immediately , and his conscience was pacified by the resolution of inviting his sisters another year ; at the same time , however , slyly suspecting that another year would make the invitation needless , by bringing Elinor to town as Colonel Brandon ' s wife , and Marianne as THEIR visitor .
Fanny , rejoicing in her escape , and proud of the ready wit that had procured it , wrote the next morning to Lucy , to request her company and her sister ' s , for some days , in Harley Street , as soon as Lady Middleton could spare them .
This was enough to make Lucy really and reasonably happy .
Mrs . Dashwood seemed actually working for her , herself ; cherishing all her hopes , and promoting all her views !
Such an opportunity of being with Edward and his family was , above all things , the most material to her interest , and such an invitation the most gratifying to her feelings !
It was an advantage that could not be too gratefully acknowledged , nor too speedily made use of ; and the visit to Lady Middleton , which had not before had any precise limits , was instantly discovered to have been always meant to end in two days ' time .
When the note was shown to Elinor , as it was within ten minutes after its arrival , it gave her , for the first time , some share in the expectations of Lucy ; for such a mark of uncommon kindness , vouchsafed on so short an acquaintance , seemed to declare that the good - will towards her arose from something more than merely malice against herself ; and might be brought , by time and address , to do every thing that Lucy wished .
Her flattery had already subdued the pride of Lady Middleton , and made an entry into the close heart of Mrs . John Dashwood ; and these were effects that laid open the probability of greater .
The Miss Steeles removed to Harley Street , and all that reached Elinor of their influence there , strengthened her expectation of the event .
Sir John , who called on them more than once , brought home such accounts of the favour they were in , as must be universally striking .
Mrs . Dashwood had never been so much pleased with any young women in her life , as she was with them ; had given each of them a needle book made by some emigrant ; called Lucy by her Christian name ; and did not know whether she should ever be able to part with them .
[ At this point in the first and second edtions , Volume II ended .]
CHAPTER 37
Mrs . Palmer was so well at the end of a fortnight , that her mother felt it no longer necessary to give up the whole of her time to her ; and , contenting herself with visiting her once or twice a day , returned from that period to her own home , and her own habits , in which she found the Miss Dashwoods very ready to resume their former share .
About the third or fourth morning after their being thus resettled in Berkeley Street , Mrs . Jennings , on returning from her ordinary visit to Mrs . Palmer , entered the drawing - room , where Elinor was sitting by herself , with an air of such hurrying importance as prepared her to hear something wonderful ; and giving her time only to form that idea , began directly to justify it , by saying ,
" Lord !
my dear Miss Dashwood !
have you heard the news ?"
" No , ma ' am .
What is it ?"
" Something so strange !
But you shall hear it all .-- When I got to Mr . Palmer ' s , I found Charlotte quite in a fuss about the child .
She was sure it was very ill -- it cried , and fretted , and was all over pimples .
So I looked at it directly , and , ' Lord !
my dear ,' says I , ' it is nothing in the world , but the red gum --' and nurse said just the same .
But Charlotte , she would not be satisfied , so Mr . Donavan was sent for ; and luckily he happened to just come in from Harley Street , so he stepped over directly , and as soon as ever he saw the child , be said just as we did , that it was nothing in the world but the red gum , and then Charlotte was easy .
And so , just as he was going away again , it came into my head , I am sure I do not know how I happened to think of it , but it came into my head to ask him if there was any news .
So upon that , he smirked , and simpered , and looked grave , and seemed to know something or other , and at last he said in a whisper , ' For fear any unpleasant report should reach the young ladies under your care as to their sister ' s indisposition , I think it advisable to say , that I believe there is no great reason for alarm ; I hope Mrs . Dashwood will do very well .'"
" What !
is Fanny ill ?"
" That is exactly what I said , my dear .
' Lord !'
says I , ' is Mrs . Dashwood ill ?'
So then it all came out ; and the long and the short of the matter , by all I can learn , seems to be this .
Mr . Edward Ferrars , the very young man I used to joke with you about ( but however , as it turns out , I am monstrous glad there was never any thing in it ), Mr . Edward Ferrars , it seems , has been engaged above this twelvemonth to my cousin Lucy !-- There ' s for you , my dear !-- And not a creature knowing a syllable of the matter , except Nancy !-- Could you have believed such a thing possible ?-- There is no great wonder in their liking one another ; but that matters should be brought so forward between them , and nobody suspect it !-- THAT is strange !-- I never happened to see them together , or I am sure I should have found it out directly .
Well , and so this was kept a great secret , for fear of Mrs . Ferrars , and neither she nor your brother or sister suspected a word of the matter ;-- till this very morning , poor Nancy , who , you know , is a well - meaning creature , but no conjurer , popt it all out .
' Lord !'
thinks she to herself , ' they are all so fond of Lucy , to be sure they will make no difficulty about it ;' and so , away she went to your sister , who was sitting all alone at her carpet - work , little suspecting what was to come -- for she had just been saying to your brother , only five minutes before , that she thought to make a match between Edward and some Lord ' s daughter or other , I forget who .
So you may think what a blow it was to all her vanity and pride .
She fell into violent hysterics immediately , with such screams as reached your brother ' s ears , as he was sitting in his own dressing - room down stairs , thinking about writing a letter to his steward in the country .
So up he flew directly , and a terrible scene took place , for Lucy was come to them by that time , little dreaming what was going on .
Poor soul !
I pity HER .
And I must say , I think she was used very hardly ; for your sister scolded like any fury , and soon drove her into a fainting fit .
Nancy , she fell upon her knees , and cried bitterly ; and your brother , he walked about the room , and said he did not know what to do .
Mrs . Dashwood declared they should not stay a minute longer in the house , and your brother was forced to go down upon HIS knees too , to persuade her to let them stay till they had packed up their clothes .
THEN she fell into hysterics again , and he was so frightened that he would send for Mr . Donavan , and Mr . Donavan found the house in all this uproar .
The carriage was at the door ready to take my poor cousins away , and they were just stepping in as he came off ; poor Lucy in such a condition , he says , she could hardly walk ; and Nancy , she was almost as bad .
I declare , I have no patience with your sister ; and I hope , with all my heart , it will be a match in spite of her .
Lord !
what a taking poor Mr . Edward will be in when he hears of it !
To have his love used so scornfully !
for they say he is monstrous fond of her , as well he may .
I should not wonder , if he was to be in the greatest passion !-- and Mr . Donavan thinks just the same .
He and I had a great deal of talk about it ; and the best of all is , that he is gone back again to Harley Street , that he may be within call when Mrs . Ferrars is told of it , for she was sent for as soon as ever my cousins left the house , for your sister was sure SHE would be in hysterics too ; and so she may , for what I care .
I have no pity for either of them .
I have no notion of people ' s making such a to - do about money and greatness .
There is no reason on earth why Mr . Edward and Lucy should not marry ; for I am sure Mrs . Ferrars may afford to do very well by her son , and though Lucy has next to nothing herself , she knows better than any body how to make the most of every thing ; I dare say , if Mrs . Ferrars would only allow him five hundred a - year , she would make as good an appearance with it as any body else would with eight .
Lord !
how snug they might live in such another cottage as yours -- or a little bigger -- with two maids , and two men ; and I believe I could help them to a housemaid , for my Betty has a sister out of place , that would fit them exactly ."
Here Mrs . Jennings ceased , and as Elinor had had time enough to collect her thoughts , she was able to give such an answer , and make such observations , as the subject might naturally be supposed to produce .
Happy to find that she was not suspected of any extraordinary interest in it ; that Mrs . Jennings ( as she had of late often hoped might be the case ) had ceased to imagine her at all attached to Edward ; and happy above all the rest , in the absence of Marianne , she felt very well able to speak of the affair without embarrassment , and to give her judgment , as she believed , with impartiality on the conduct of every one concerned in it .
She could hardly determine what her own expectation of its event really was ; though she earnestly tried to drive away the notion of its being possible to end otherwise at last , than in the marriage of Edward and Lucy .
What Mrs . Ferrars would say and do , though there could not be a doubt of its nature , she was anxious to hear ; and still more anxious to know how Edward would conduct himself .
For HIM she felt much compassion ;-- for Lucy very little -- and it cost her some pains to procure that little ;-- for the rest of the party none at all .
As Mrs . Jennings could talk on no other subject , Elinor soon saw the necessity of preparing Marianne for its discussion .
No time was to be lost in undeceiving her , in making her acquainted with the real truth , and in endeavouring to bring her to hear it talked of by others , without betraying that she felt any uneasiness for her sister , or any resentment against Edward .
Elinor ' s office was a painful one .-- She was going to remove what she really believed to be her sister ' s chief consolation ,-- to give such particulars of Edward as she feared would ruin him for ever in her good opinion ,- and to make Marianne , by a resemblance in their situations , which to HER fancy would seem strong , feel all her own disappointment over again .
But unwelcome as such a task must be , it was necessary to be done , and Elinor therefore hastened to perform it .
She was very far from wishing to dwell on her own feelings , or to represent herself as suffering much , any otherwise than as the self - command she had practised since her first knowledge of Edward ' s engagement , might suggest a hint of what was practicable to Marianne .
Her narration was clear and simple ; and though it could not be given without emotion , it was not accompanied by violent agitation , nor impetuous grief .-- THAT belonged rather to the hearer , for Marianne listened with horror , and cried excessively .
Elinor was to be the comforter of others in her own distresses , no less than in theirs ; and all the comfort that could be given by assurances of her own composure of mind , and a very earnest vindication of Edward from every charge but of imprudence , was readily offered .
But Marianne for some time would give credit to neither .
Edward seemed a second Willoughby ; and acknowledging as Elinor did , that she HAD loved him most sincerely , could she feel less than herself !
As for Lucy Steele , she considered her so totally unamiable , so absolutely incapable of attaching a sensible man , that she could not be persuaded at first to believe , and afterwards to pardon , any former affection of Edward for her .
She would not even admit it to have been natural ; and Elinor left her to be convinced that it was so , by that which only could convince her , a better knowledge of mankind .
Her first communication had reached no farther than to state the fact of the engagement , and the length of time it had existed .-- Marianne ' s feelings had then broken in , and put an end to all regularity of detail ; and for some time all that could be done was to soothe her distress , lessen her alarms , and combat her resentment .
The first question on her side , which led to farther particulars , was ,
" How long has this been known to you , Elinor ?
has he written to you ?"
" I have known it these four months .
When Lucy first came to Barton Park last November , she told me in confidence of her engagement ."
At these words , Marianne ' s eyes expressed the astonishment which her lips could not utter .
After a pause of wonder , she exclaimed --
" Four months !-- Have you known of this four months ?"
Elinor confirmed it .
" What !-- while attending me in all my misery , has this been on your heart ?-- And I have reproached you for being happy !"
--
" It was not fit that you should then know how much I was the reverse !"
" Four months !"
-- cried Marianne again .--" So calm !-- so cheerful !-- how have you been supported ?"
--
" By feeling that I was doing my duty .-- My promise to Lucy , obliged me to be secret .
I owed it to her , therefore , to avoid giving any hint of the truth ; and I owed it to my family and friends , not to create in them a solicitude about me , which it could not be in my power to satisfy ."
Marianne seemed much struck .
" I have very often wished to undeceive yourself and my mother ," added Elinor ; " and once or twice I have attempted it ;-- but without betraying my trust , I never could have convinced you ."
" Four months !-- and yet you loved him !"
--
" Yes .
But I did not love only him ;-- and while the comfort of others was dear to me , I was glad to spare them from knowing how much I felt .
Now , I can think and speak of it with little emotion .
I would not have you suffer on my account ; for I assure you I no longer suffer materially myself .
I have many things to support me .
I am not conscious of having provoked the disappointment by any imprudence of my own , I have borne it as much as possible without spreading it farther .
I acquit Edward of essential misconduct .
I wish him very happy ; and I am so sure of his always doing his duty , that though now he may harbour some regret , in the end he must become so .
Lucy does not want sense , and that is the foundation on which every thing good may be built .-- And after all , Marianne , after all that is bewitching in the idea of a single and constant attachment , and all that can be said of one ' s happiness depending entirely on any particular person , it is not meant -- it is not fit -- it is not possible that it should be so .-- Edward will marry Lucy ; he will marry a woman superior in person and understanding to half her sex ; and time and habit will teach him to forget that he ever thought another superior to HER ."
--
" If such is your way of thinking ," said Marianne , " if the loss of what is most valued is so easily to be made up by something else , your resolution , your self - command , are , perhaps , a little less to be wondered at .-- They are brought more within my comprehension ."
" I understand you .-- You do not suppose that I have ever felt much .-- For four months , Marianne , I have had all this hanging on my mind , without being at liberty to speak of it to a single creature ; knowing that it would make you and my mother most unhappy whenever it were explained to you , yet unable to prepare you for it in the least .-- It was told me ,-- it was in a manner forced on me by the very person herself , whose prior engagement ruined all my prospects ; and told me , as I thought , with triumph .-- This person ' s suspicions , therefore , I have had to oppose , by endeavouring to appear indifferent where I have been most deeply interested ;-- and it has not been only once ;-- I have had her hopes and exultation to listen to again and again .-- I have known myself to be divided from Edward for ever , without hearing one circumstance that could make me less desire the connection .-- Nothing has proved him unworthy ; nor has anything declared him indifferent to me .-- I have had to contend against the unkindness of his sister , and the insolence of his mother ; and have suffered the punishment of an attachment , without enjoying its advantages .-- And all this has been going on at a time , when , as you know too well , it has not been my only unhappiness .-- If you can think me capable of ever feeling -- surely you may suppose that I have suffered NOW .
The composure of mind with which I have brought myself at present to consider the matter , the consolation that I have been willing to admit , have been the effect of constant and painful exertion ;-- they did not spring up of themselves ;-- they did not occur to relieve my spirits at first .-- No , Marianne .-- THEN , if I had not been bound to silence , perhaps nothing could have kept me entirely -- not even what I owed to my dearest friends -- from openly shewing that I was VERY unhappy ."
--
Marianne was quite subdued .--
" Oh !
Elinor ," she cried , " you have made me hate myself for ever .-- How barbarous have I been to you !-- you , who have been my only comfort , who have borne with me in all my misery , who have seemed to be only suffering for me !-- Is this my gratitude ?-- Is this the only return I can make you ?-- Because your merit cries out upon myself , I have been trying to do it away ."
The tenderest caresses followed this confession .
In such a frame of mind as she was now in , Elinor had no difficulty in obtaining from her whatever promise she required ; and at her request , Marianne engaged never to speak of the affair to any one with the least appearance of bitterness ;-- to meet Lucy without betraying the smallest increase of dislike to her ;-- and even to see Edward himself , if chance should bring them together , without any diminution of her usual cordiality .-- These were great concessions ;-- but where Marianne felt that she had injured , no reparation could be too much for her to make .
She performed her promise of being discreet , to admiration .-- She attended to all that Mrs . Jennings had to say upon the subject , with an unchanging complexion , dissented from her in nothing , and was heard three times to say , " Yes , ma ' am ."
-- She listened to her praise of Lucy with only moving from one chair to another , and when Mrs . Jennings talked of Edward ' s affection , it cost her only a spasm in her throat .-- Such advances towards heroism in her sister , made Elinor feel equal to any thing herself .
The next morning brought a farther trial of it , in a visit from their brother , who came with a most serious aspect to talk over the dreadful affair , and bring them news of his wife .
" You have heard , I suppose ," said he with great solemnity , as soon as he was seated , " of the very shocking discovery that took place under our roof yesterday ."
They all looked their assent ; it seemed too awful a moment for speech .
" Your sister ," he continued , " has suffered dreadfully .
Mrs . Ferrars too -- in short it has been a scene of such complicated distress -- but I will hope that the storm may be weathered without our being any of us quite overcome .
Poor Fanny !
she was in hysterics all yesterday .
But I would not alarm you too much .
Donavan says there is nothing materially to be apprehended ; her constitution is a good one , and her resolution equal to any thing .
She has borne it all , with the fortitude of an angel !
She says she never shall think well of anybody again ; and one cannot wonder at it , after being so deceived !-- meeting with such ingratitude , where so much kindness had been shewn , so much confidence had been placed !
It was quite out of the benevolence of her heart , that she had asked these young women to her house ; merely because she thought they deserved some attention , were harmless , well - behaved girls , and would be pleasant companions ; for otherwise we both wished very much to have invited you and Marianne to be with us , while your kind friend there , was attending her daughter .
And now to be so rewarded !
' I wish , with all my heart ,' says poor Fanny in her affectionate way , ' that we had asked your sisters instead of them .'"
Here he stopped to be thanked ; which being done , he went on .
" What poor Mrs . Ferrars suffered , when first Fanny broke it to her , is not to be described .
While she with the truest affection had been planning a most eligible connection for him , was it to be supposed that he could be all the time secretly engaged to another person !-- such a suspicion could never have entered her head !
If she suspected ANY prepossession elsewhere , it could not be in THAT quarter .
' THERE , to be sure ,' said she , ' I might have thought myself safe .'
She was quite in an agony .
We consulted together , however , as to what should be done , and at last she determined to send for Edward .
He came .
But I am sorry to relate what ensued .
All that Mrs . Ferrars could say to make him put an end to the engagement , assisted too as you may well suppose by my arguments , and Fanny ' s entreaties , was of no avail .
Duty , affection , every thing was disregarded .
I never thought Edward so stubborn , so unfeeling before .
His mother explained to him her liberal designs , in case of his marrying Miss Morton ; told him she would settle on him the Norfolk estate , which , clear of land - tax , brings in a good thousand a - year ; offered even , when matters grew desperate , to make it twelve hundred ; and in opposition to this , if he still persisted in this low connection , represented to him the certain penury that must attend the match .
His own two thousand pounds she protested should be his all ; she would never see him again ; and so far would she be from affording him the smallest assistance , that if he were to enter into any profession with a view of better support , she would do all in her power to prevent him advancing in it ."
Here Marianne , in an ecstasy of indignation , clapped her hands together , and cried , " Gracious God !
can this be possible !"
" Well may you wonder , Marianne ," replied her brother , " at the obstinacy which could resist such arguments as these .
Your exclamation is very natural ."
Marianne was going to retort , but she remembered her promises , and forbore .
" All this , however ," he continued , " was urged in vain .
Edward said very little ; but what he did say , was in the most determined manner .
Nothing should prevail on him to give up his engagement .
He would stand to it , cost him what it might ."
" Then ," cried Mrs . Jennings with blunt sincerity , no longer able to be silent , " he has acted like an honest man !
I beg your pardon , Mr . Dashwood , but if he had done otherwise , I should have thought him a rascal .
I have some little concern in the business , as well as yourself , for Lucy Steele is my cousin , and I believe there is not a better kind of girl in the world , nor one who more deserves a good husband ."
John Dashwood was greatly astonished ; but his nature was calm , not open to provocation , and he never wished to offend anybody , especially anybody of good fortune .
He therefore replied , without any resentment ,
" I would by no means speak disrespectfully of any relation of yours , madam .
Miss Lucy Steele is , I dare say , a very deserving young woman , but in the present case you know , the connection must be impossible .
And to have entered into a secret engagement with a young man under her uncle ' s care , the son of a woman especially of such very large fortune as Mrs . Ferrars , is perhaps , altogether a little extraordinary .
In short , I do not mean to reflect upon the behaviour of any person whom you have a regard for , Mrs . Jennings .
We all wish her extremely happy ; and Mrs . Ferrars ' s conduct throughout the whole , has been such as every conscientious , good mother , in like circumstances , would adopt .
It has been dignified and liberal .
Edward has drawn his own lot , and I fear it will be a bad one ."
Marianne sighed out her similar apprehension ; and Elinor ' s heart wrung for the feelings of Edward , while braving his mother ' s threats , for a woman who could not reward him .
" Well , sir ," said Mrs . Jennings , " and how did it end ?"
" I am sorry to say , ma ' am , in a most unhappy rupture :-- Edward is dismissed for ever from his mother ' s notice .
He left her house yesterday , but where he is gone , or whether he is still in town , I do not know ; for WE of course can make no inquiry ."
" Poor young man !-- and what is to become of him ?"
" What , indeed , ma ' am !
It is a melancholy consideration .
Born to the prospect of such affluence !
I cannot conceive a situation more deplorable .
The interest of two thousand pounds -- how can a man live on it ?-- and when to that is added the recollection , that he might , but for his own folly , within three months have been in the receipt of two thousand , five hundred a - year ( for Miss Morton has thirty thousand pounds ,) I cannot picture to myself a more wretched condition .
We must all feel for him ; and the more so , because it is totally out of our power to assist him ."
" Poor young man !"
cried Mrs . Jennings , " I am sure he should be very welcome to bed and board at my house ; and so I would tell him if I could see him .
It is not fit that he should be living about at his own charge now , at lodgings and taverns ."
Elinor ' s heart thanked her for such kindness towards Edward , though she could not forbear smiling at the form of it .
" If he would only have done as well by himself ," said John Dashwood , " as all his friends were disposed to do by him , he might now have been in his proper situation , and would have wanted for nothing .
But as it is , it must be out of anybody ' s power to assist him .
And there is one thing more preparing against him , which must be worse than all -- his mother has determined , with a very natural kind of spirit , to settle THAT estate upon Robert immediately , which might have been Edward ' s , on proper conditions .
I left her this morning with her lawyer , talking over the business ."
" Well !"
said Mrs . Jennings , " that is HER revenge .
Everybody has a way of their own .
But I don ' t think mine would be , to make one son independent , because another had plagued me ."
Marianne got up and walked about the room .
" Can anything be more galling to the spirit of a man ," continued John , " than to see his younger brother in possession of an estate which might have been his own ?
Poor Edward !
I feel for him sincerely ."
A few minutes more spent in the same kind of effusion , concluded his visit ; and with repeated assurances to his sisters that he really believed there was no material danger in Fanny ' s indisposition , and that they need not therefore be very uneasy about it , he went away ; leaving the three ladies unanimous in their sentiments on the present occasion , as far at least as it regarded Mrs . Ferrars ' s conduct , the Dashwoods ', and Edward ' s .
Marianne ' s indignation burst forth as soon as he quitted the room ; and as her vehemence made reserve impossible in Elinor , and unnecessary in Mrs . Jennings , they all joined in a very spirited critique upon the party .
CHAPTER 38
Mrs . Jennings was very warm in her praise of Edward ' s conduct , but only Elinor and Marianne understood its true merit .
THEY only knew how little he had had to tempt him to be disobedient , and how small was the consolation , beyond the consciousness of doing right , that could remain to him in the loss of friends and fortune .
Elinor gloried in his integrity ; and Marianne forgave all his offences in compassion for his punishment .
But though confidence between them was , by this public discovery , restored to its proper state , it was not a subject on which either of them were fond of dwelling when alone .
Elinor avoided it upon principle , as tending to fix still more upon her thoughts , by the too warm , too positive assurances of Marianne , that belief of Edward ' s continued affection for herself which she rather wished to do away ; and Marianne ' s courage soon failed her , in trying to converse upon a topic which always left her more dissatisfied with herself than ever , by the comparison it necessarily produced between Elinor ' s conduct and her own .
She felt all the force of that comparison ; but not as her sister had hoped , to urge her to exertion now ; she felt it with all the pain of continual self - reproach , regretted most bitterly that she had never exerted herself before ; but it brought only the torture of penitence , without the hope of amendment .
Her mind was so much weakened that she still fancied present exertion impossible , and therefore it only dispirited her more .
Nothing new was heard by them , for a day or two afterwards , of affairs in Harley Street , or Bartlett ' s Buildings .
But though so much of the matter was known to them already , that Mrs . Jennings might have had enough to do in spreading that knowledge farther , without seeking after more , she had resolved from the first to pay a visit of comfort and inquiry to her cousins as soon as she could ; and nothing but the hindrance of more visitors than usual , had prevented her going to them within that time .
The third day succeeding their knowledge of the particulars , was so fine , so beautiful a Sunday as to draw many to Kensington Gardens , though it was only the second week in March .
Mrs . Jennings and Elinor were of the number ; but Marianne , who knew that the Willoughbys were again in town , and had a constant dread of meeting them , chose rather to stay at home , than venture into so public a place .
An intimate acquaintance of Mrs . Jennings joined them soon after they entered the Gardens , and Elinor was not sorry that by her continuing with them , and engaging all Mrs . Jennings ' s conversation , she was herself left to quiet reflection .
She saw nothing of the Willoughbys , nothing of Edward , and for some time nothing of anybody who could by any chance whether grave or gay , be interesting to her .
But at last she found herself with some surprise , accosted by Miss Steele , who , though looking rather shy , expressed great satisfaction in meeting them , and on receiving encouragement from the particular kindness of Mrs . Jennings , left her own party for a short time , to join their ' s .
Mrs . Jennings immediately whispered to Elinor ,
" Get it all out of her , my dear .
She will tell you any thing if you ask .
You see I cannot leave Mrs .
Clarke ."
It was lucky , however , for Mrs . Jennings ' s curiosity and Elinor ' s too , that she would tell any thing WITHOUT being asked ; for nothing would otherwise have been learnt .
" I am so glad to meet you ;" said Miss Steele , taking her familiarly by the arm --" for I wanted to see you of all things in the world ."
And then lowering her voice , " I suppose Mrs . Jennings has heard all about it .
Is she angry ?"
" Not at all , I believe , with you ."
" That is a good thing .
And Lady Middleton , is SHE angry ?"
" I cannot suppose it possible that she should ."
" I am monstrous glad of it .
Good gracious !
I have had such a time of it !
I never saw Lucy in such a rage in my life .
She vowed at first she would never trim me up a new bonnet , nor do any thing else for me again , so long as she lived ; but now she is quite come to , and we are as good friends as ever .
Look , she made me this bow to my hat , and put in the feather last night .
There now , YOU are going to laugh at me too .
But why should not I wear pink ribbons ?
I do not care if it IS the Doctor ' s favourite colour .
I am sure , for my part , I should never have known he DID like it better than any other colour , if he had not happened to say so .
My cousins have been so plaguing me !
I declare sometimes I do not know which way to look before them ."
She had wandered away to a subject on which Elinor had nothing to say , and therefore soon judged it expedient to find her way back again to the first .
" Well , but Miss Dashwood ," speaking triumphantly , " people may say what they chuse about Mr . Ferrars ' s declaring he would not have Lucy , for it is no such thing I can tell you ; and it is quite a shame for such ill - natured reports to be spread abroad .
Whatever Lucy might think about it herself , you know , it was no business of other people to set it down for certain ."
" I never heard any thing of the kind hinted at before , I assure you ," said Elinor .
" Oh , did not you ?
But it WAS said , I know , very well , and by more than one ; for Miss Godby told Miss Sparks , that nobody in their senses could expect Mr . Ferrars to give up a woman like Miss Morton , with thirty thousand pounds to her fortune , for Lucy Steele that had nothing at all ; and I had it from Miss Sparks myself .
And besides that , my cousin Richard said himself , that when it came to the point he was afraid Mr . Ferrars would be off ; and when Edward did not come near us for three days , I could not tell what to think myself ; and I believe in my heart Lucy gave it up all for lost ; for we came away from your brother ' s Wednesday , and we saw nothing of him not all Thursday , Friday , and Saturday , and did not know what was become of him .
Once Lucy thought to write to him , but then her spirits rose against that .
However this morning he came just as we came home from church ; and then it all came out , how he had been sent for Wednesday to Harley Street , and been talked to by his mother and all of them , and how he had declared before them all that he loved nobody but Lucy , and nobody but Lucy would he have .
And how he had been so worried by what passed , that as soon as he had went away from his mother ' s house , he had got upon his horse , and rid into the country , some where or other ; and how he had stayed about at an inn all Thursday and Friday , on purpose to get the better of it .
And after thinking it all over and over again , he said , it seemed to him as if , now he had no fortune , and no nothing at all , it would be quite unkind to keep her on to the engagement , because it must be for her loss , for he had nothing but two thousand pounds , and no hope of any thing else ; and if he was to go into orders , as he had some thoughts , he could get nothing but a curacy , and how was they to live upon that ?-- He could not bear to think of her doing no better , and so he begged , if she had the least mind for it , to put an end to the matter directly , and leave him shift for himself .
I heard him say all this as plain as could possibly be .
And it was entirely for HER sake , and upon HER account , that he said a word about being off , and not upon his own .
I will take my oath he never dropt a syllable of being tired of her , or of wishing to marry Miss Morton , or any thing like it .
But , to be sure , Lucy would not give ear to such kind of talking ; so she told him directly ( with a great deal about sweet and love , you know , and all that -- Oh , la !
one can ' t repeat such kind of things you know )-- she told him directly , she had not the least mind in the world to be off , for she could live with him upon a trifle , and how little so ever he might have , she should be very glad to have it all , you know , or something of the kind .
So then he was monstrous happy , and talked on some time about what they should do , and they agreed he should take orders directly , and they must wait to be married till he got a living .
And just then I could not hear any more , for my cousin called from below to tell me Mrs . Richardson was come in her coach , and would take one of us to Kensington Gardens ; so I was forced to go into the room and interrupt them , to ask Lucy if she would like to go , but she did not care to leave Edward ; so I just run up stairs and put on a pair of silk stockings and came off with the Richardsons ."
" I do not understand what you mean by interrupting them ," said Elinor ; " you were all in the same room together , were not you ?"
" No , indeed , not us .
La !
Miss Dashwood , do you think people make love when any body else is by ?
Oh , for shame !-- To be sure you must know better than that .
( Laughing affectedly .)
-- No , no ; they were shut up in the drawing - room together , and all I heard was only by listening at the door ."
" How !"
cried Elinor ; " have you been repeating to me what you only learnt yourself by listening at the door ?
I am sorry I did not know it before ; for I certainly would not have suffered you to give me particulars of a conversation which you ought not to have known yourself .
How could you behave so unfairly by your sister ?"
" Oh , la !
there is nothing in THAT .
I only stood at the door , and heard what I could .
And I am sure Lucy would have done just the same by me ; for a year or two back , when Martha Sharpe and I had so many secrets together , she never made any bones of hiding in a closet , or behind a chimney - board , on purpose to hear what we said ."
Elinor tried to talk of something else ; but Miss Steele could not be kept beyond a couple of minutes , from what was uppermost in her mind .
" Edward talks of going to Oxford soon ," said she ; " but now he is lodging at No .
--, Pall Mall .
What an ill - natured woman his mother is , an ' t she ?
And your brother and sister were not very kind !
However , I shan ' t say anything against them to YOU ; and to be sure they did send us home in their own chariot , which was more than I looked for .
And for my part , I was all in a fright for fear your sister should ask us for the huswifes she had gave us a day or two before ; but , however , nothing was said about them , and I took care to keep mine out of sight .
Edward have got some business at Oxford , he says ; so he must go there for a time ; and after THAT , as soon as he can light upon a Bishop , he will be ordained .
I wonder what curacy he will get !-- Good gracious !
( giggling as she spoke ) I ' d lay my life I know what my cousins will say , when they hear of it .
They will tell me I should write to the Doctor , to get Edward the curacy of his new living .
I know they will ; but I am sure I would not do such a thing for all the world .-- ' La !'
I shall say directly , ' I wonder how you could think of such a thing ?
I write to the Doctor , indeed !'"
" Well ," said Elinor , " it is a comfort to be prepared against the worst .
You have got your answer ready ."
Miss Steele was going to reply on the same subject , but the approach of her own party made another more necessary .
" Oh , la !
here come the Richardsons .
I had a vast deal more to say to you , but I must not stay away from them not any longer .
I assure you they are very genteel people .
He makes a monstrous deal of money , and they keep their own coach .
I have not time to speak to Mrs . Jennings about it myself , but pray tell her I am quite happy to hear she is not in anger against us , and Lady Middleton the same ; and if anything should happen to take you and your sister away , and Mrs . Jennings should want company , I am sure we should be very glad to come and stay with her for as long a time as she likes .
I suppose Lady Middleton won ' t ask us any more this bout .
Good - by ; I am sorry Miss Marianne was not here .
Remember me kindly to her .
La !
if you have not got your spotted muslin on !-- I wonder you was not afraid of its being torn ."
Such was her parting concern ; for after this , she had time only to pay her farewell compliments to Mrs . Jennings , before her company was claimed by Mrs . Richardson ; and Elinor was left in possession of knowledge which might feed her powers of reflection some time , though she had learnt very little more than what had been already foreseen and foreplanned in her own mind .
Edward ' s marriage with Lucy was as firmly determined on , and the time of its taking place remained as absolutely uncertain , as she had concluded it would be ;-- every thing depended , exactly after her expectation , on his getting that preferment , of which , at present , there seemed not the smallest chance .
As soon as they returned to the carriage , Mrs . Jennings was eager for information ; but as Elinor wished to spread as little as possible intelligence that had in the first place been so unfairly obtained , she confined herself to the brief repetition of such simple particulars , as she felt assured that Lucy , for the sake of her own consequence , would choose to have known .
The continuance of their engagement , and the means that were able to be taken for promoting its end , was all her communication ; and this produced from Mrs . Jennings the following natural remark .
" Wait for his having a living !-- ay , we all know how THAT will end :-- they will wait a twelvemonth , and finding no good comes of it , will set down upon a curacy of fifty pounds a - year , with the interest of his two thousand pounds , and what little matter Mr . Steele and Mr . Pratt can give her .-- Then they will have a child every year !
and Lord help ' em !
how poor they will be !-- I must see what I can give them towards furnishing their house .
Two maids and two men , indeed !-- as I talked of t ' other day .-- No , no , they must get a stout girl of all works .-- Betty ' s sister would never do for them NOW ."
The next morning brought Elinor a letter by the two - penny post from Lucy herself .
It was as follows :
" Bartlett ' s Building , March .
" I hope my dear Miss Dashwood will excuse the liberty I take of writing to her ; but I know your friendship for me will make you pleased to hear such a good account of myself and my dear Edward , after all the troubles we have went through lately , therefore will make no more apologies , but proceed to say that , thank God !
though we have suffered dreadfully , we are both quite well now , and as happy as we must always be in one another ' s love .
We have had great trials , and great persecutions , but however , at the same time , gratefully acknowledge many friends , yourself not the least among them , whose great kindness I shall always thankfully remember , as will Edward too , who I have told of it .
I am sure you will be glad to hear , as likewise dear Mrs . Jennings , I spent two happy hours with him yesterday afternoon , he would not hear of our parting , though earnestly did I , as I thought my duty required , urge him to it for prudence sake , and would have parted for ever on the spot , would he consent to it ; but he said it should never be , he did not regard his mother ' s anger , while he could have my affections ; our prospects are not very bright , to be sure , but we must wait , and hope for the best ; he will be ordained shortly ; and should it ever be in your power to recommend him to any body that has a living to bestow , am very sure you will not forget us , and dear Mrs . Jennings too , trust she will speak a good word for us to Sir John , or Mr . Palmer , or any friend that may be able to assist us .-- Poor Anne was much to blame for what she did , but she did it for the best , so I say nothing ; hope Mrs . Jennings won ' t think it too much trouble to give us a call , should she come this way any morning , ' twould be a great kindness , and my cousins would be proud to know her .-- My paper reminds me to conclude ; and begging to be most gratefully and respectfully remembered to her , and to Sir John , and Lady Middleton , and the dear children , when you chance to see them , and love to Miss Marianne ,
" I am , & c ."
As soon as Elinor had finished it , she performed what she concluded to be its writer ' s real design , by placing it in the hands of Mrs . Jennings , who read it aloud with many comments of satisfaction and praise .
" Very well indeed !-- how prettily she writes !-- aye , that was quite proper to let him be off if he would .
That was just like Lucy .-- Poor soul !
I wish I COULD get him a living , with all my heart .-- She calls me dear Mrs . Jennings , you see .
She is a good - hearted girl as ever lived .-- Very well upon my word .
That sentence is very prettily turned .
Yes , yes , I will go and see her , sure enough .
How attentive she is , to think of every body !-- Thank you , my dear , for shewing it me .
It is as pretty a letter as ever I saw , and does Lucy ' s head and heart great credit ."
CHAPTER 39
The Miss Dashwoods had now been rather more than two months in town , and Marianne ' s impatience to be gone increased every day .
She sighed for the air , the liberty , the quiet of the country ; and fancied that if any place could give her ease , Barton must do it .
Elinor was hardly less anxious than herself for their removal , and only so much less bent on its being effected immediately , as that she was conscious of the difficulties of so long a journey , which Marianne could not be brought to acknowledge .
She began , however , seriously to turn her thoughts towards its accomplishment , and had already mentioned their wishes to their kind hostess , who resisted them with all the eloquence of her good - will , when a plan was suggested , which , though detaining them from home yet a few weeks longer , appeared to Elinor altogether much more eligible than any other .
The Palmers were to remove to Cleveland about the end of March , for the Easter holidays ; and Mrs . Jennings , with both her friends , received a very warm invitation from Charlotte to go with them .
This would not , in itself , have been sufficient for the delicacy of Miss Dashwood ;-- but it was inforced with so much real politeness by Mr . Palmer himself , as , joined to the very great amendment of his manners towards them since her sister had been known to be unhappy , induced her to accept it with pleasure .
When she told Marianne what she had done , however , her first reply was not very auspicious .
" Cleveland !"
-- she cried , with great agitation .
" No , I cannot go to Cleveland ."
--
" You forget ," said Elinor gently , " that its situation is not ... that it is not in the neighbourhood of ..."
" But it is in Somersetshire .-- I cannot go into Somersetshire .-- There , where I looked forward to going ... No , Elinor , you cannot expect me to go there ."
Elinor would not argue upon the propriety of overcoming such feelings ;-- she only endeavoured to counteract them by working on others ;-- represented it , therefore , as a measure which would fix the time of her returning to that dear mother , whom she so much wished to see , in a more eligible , more comfortable manner , than any other plan could do , and perhaps without any greater delay .
From Cleveland , which was within a few miles of Bristol , the distance to Barton was not beyond one day , though a long day ' s journey ; and their mother ' s servant might easily come there to attend them down ; and as there could be no occasion of their staying above a week at Cleveland , they might now be at home in little more than three weeks ' time .
As Marianne ' s affection for her mother was sincere , it must triumph with little difficulty , over the imaginary evils she had started .
Mrs . Jennings was so far from being weary of her guest , that she pressed them very earnestly to return with her again from Cleveland .
Elinor was grateful for the attention , but it could not alter her design ; and their mother ' s concurrence being readily gained , every thing relative to their return was arranged as far as it could be ;-- and Marianne found some relief in drawing up a statement of the hours that were yet to divide her from Barton .
" Ah !
Colonel , I do not know what you and I shall do without the Miss Dashwoods ;"-- was Mrs . Jennings ' s address to him when he first called on her , after their leaving her was settled --" for they are quite resolved upon going home from the Palmers ;-- and how forlorn we shall be , when I come back !-- Lord !
we shall sit and gape at one another as dull as two cats ."
Perhaps Mrs . Jennings was in hopes , by this vigorous sketch of their future ennui , to provoke him to make that offer , which might give himself an escape from it ;-- and if so , she had soon afterwards good reason to think her object gained ; for , on Elinor ' s moving to the window to take more expeditiously the dimensions of a print , which she was going to copy for her friend , he followed her to it with a look of particular meaning , and conversed with her there for several minutes .
The effect of his discourse on the lady too , could not escape her observation , for though she was too honorable to listen , and had even changed her seat , on purpose that she might NOT hear , to one close by the piano forte on which Marianne was playing , she could not keep herself from seeing that Elinor changed colour , attended with agitation , and was too intent on what he said to pursue her employment .-- Still farther in confirmation of her hopes , in the interval of Marianne ' s turning from one lesson to another , some words of the Colonel ' s inevitably reached her ear , in which he seemed to be apologising for the badness of his house .
This set the matter beyond a doubt .
She wondered , indeed , at his thinking it necessary to do so ; but supposed it to be the proper etiquette .
What Elinor said in reply she could not distinguish , but judged from the motion of her lips , that she did not think THAT any material objection ;-- and Mrs . Jennings commended her in her heart for being so honest .
They then talked on for a few minutes longer without her catching a syllable , when another lucky stop in Marianne ' s performance brought her these words in the Colonel ' s calm voice ,--
" I am afraid it cannot take place very soon ."
Astonished and shocked at so unlover - like a speech , she was almost ready to cry out , " Lord !
what should hinder it ?"
-- but checking her desire , confined herself to this silent ejaculation .
" This is very strange !-- sure he need not wait to be older ."
This delay on the Colonel ' s side , however , did not seem to offend or mortify his fair companion in the least , for on their breaking up the conference soon afterwards , and moving different ways , Mrs . Jennings very plainly heard Elinor say , and with a voice which shewed her to feel what she said ,
" I shall always think myself very much obliged to you ."
Mrs . Jennings was delighted with her gratitude , and only wondered that after hearing such a sentence , the Colonel should be able to take leave of them , as he immediately did , with the utmost sang - froid , and go away without making her any reply !-- She had not thought her old friend could have made so indifferent a suitor .
What had really passed between them was to this effect .
" I have heard ," said he , with great compassion , " of the injustice your friend Mr . Ferrars has suffered from his family ; for if I understand the matter right , he has been entirely cast off by them for persevering in his engagement with a very deserving young woman .-- Have I been rightly informed ?-- Is it so ?--"
Elinor told him that it was .
" The cruelty , the impolitic cruelty ,"-- he replied , with great feeling ,--" of dividing , or attempting to divide , two young people long attached to each other , is terrible .-- Mrs . Ferrars does not know what she may be doing -- what she may drive her son to .
I have seen Mr . Ferrars two or three times in Harley Street , and am much pleased with him .
He is not a young man with whom one can be intimately acquainted in a short time , but I have seen enough of him to wish him well for his own sake , and as a friend of yours , I wish it still more .
I understand that he intends to take orders .
Will you be so good as to tell him that the living of Delaford , now just vacant , as I am informed by this day ' s post , is his , if he think it worth his acceptance -- but THAT , perhaps , so unfortunately circumstanced as he is now , it may be nonsense to appear to doubt ; I only wish it were more valuable .-- It is a rectory , but a small one ; the late incumbent , I believe , did not make more than 200 L per annum , and though it is certainly capable of improvement , I fear , not to such an amount as to afford him a very comfortable income .
Such as it is , however , my pleasure in presenting him to it , will be very great .
Pray assure him of it ."
Elinor ' s astonishment at this commission could hardly have been greater , had the Colonel been really making her an offer of his hand .
The preferment , which only two days before she had considered as hopeless for Edward , was already provided to enable him to marry ;-- and SHE , of all people in the world , was fixed on to bestow it !-- Her emotion was such as Mrs . Jennings had attributed to a very different cause ;-- but whatever minor feelings less pure , less pleasing , might have a share in that emotion , her esteem for the general benevolence , and her gratitude for the particular friendship , which together prompted Colonel Brandon to this act , were strongly felt , and warmly expressed .
She thanked him for it with all her heart , spoke of Edward ' s principles and disposition with that praise which she knew them to deserve ; and promised to undertake the commission with pleasure , if it were really his wish to put off so agreeable an office to another .
But at the same time , she could not help thinking that no one could so well perform it as himself .
It was an office in short , from which , unwilling to give Edward the pain of receiving an obligation from HER , she would have been very glad to be spared herself ;-- but Colonel Brandon , on motives of equal delicacy , declining it likewise , still seemed so desirous of its being given through her means , that she would not on any account make farther opposition .
Edward , she believed , was still in town , and fortunately she had heard his address from Miss Steele .
She could undertake therefore to inform him of it , in the course of the day .
After this had been settled , Colonel Brandon began to talk of his own advantage in securing so respectable and agreeable a neighbour , and THEN it was that he mentioned with regret , that the house was small and indifferent ;-- an evil which Elinor , as Mrs . Jennings had supposed her to do , made very light of , at least as far as regarded its size .
" The smallness of the house ," said she , " I cannot imagine any inconvenience to them , for it will be in proportion to their family and income ."
By which the Colonel was surprised to find that SHE was considering Mr . Ferrars ' s marriage as the certain consequence of the presentation ; for he did not suppose it possible that Delaford living could supply such an income , as anybody in his style of life would venture to settle on -- and he said so .
" This little rectory CAN do no more than make Mr . Ferrars comfortable as a bachelor ; it cannot enable him to marry .
I am sorry to say that my patronage ends with this ; and my interest is hardly more extensive .
If , however , by an unforeseen chance it should be in my power to serve him farther , I must think very differently of him from what I now do , if I am not as ready to be useful to him then as I sincerely wish I could be at present .
What I am now doing indeed , seems nothing at all , since it can advance him so little towards what must be his principal , his only object of happiness .
His marriage must still be a distant good ;-- at least , I am afraid it cannot take place very soon .--"
Such was the sentence which , when misunderstood , so justly offended the delicate feelings of Mrs . Jennings ; but after this narration of what really passed between Colonel Brandon and Elinor , while they stood at the window , the gratitude expressed by the latter on their parting , may perhaps appear in general , not less reasonably excited , nor less properly worded than if it had arisen from an offer of marriage .
CHAPTER 40
" Well , Miss Dashwood ," said Mrs . Jennings , sagaciously smiling , as soon as the gentleman had withdrawn , " I do not ask you what the Colonel has been saying to you ; for though , upon my honour , I TRIED to keep out of hearing , I could not help catching enough to understand his business .
And I assure you I never was better pleased in my life , and I wish you joy of it with all my heart ."
" Thank you , ma ' am ," said Elinor .
" It is a matter of great joy to me ; and I feel the goodness of Colonel Brandon most sensibly .
There are not many men who would act as he has done .
Few people who have so compassionate a heart !
I never was more astonished in my life ."
" Lord !
my dear , you are very modest .
I an ' t the least astonished at it in the world , for I have often thought of late , there was nothing more likely to happen ."
" You judged from your knowledge of the Colonel ' s general benevolence ; but at least you could not foresee that the opportunity would so very soon occur ."
" Opportunity !"
repeated Mrs . Jennings --" Oh !
as to that , when a man has once made up his mind to such a thing , somehow or other he will soon find an opportunity .
Well , my dear , I wish you joy of it again and again ; and if ever there was a happy couple in the world , I think I shall soon know where to look for them ."
" You mean to go to Delaford after them I suppose ," said Elinor , with a faint smile .
" Aye , my dear , that I do , indeed .
And as to the house being a bad one , I do not know what the Colonel would be at , for it is as good a one as ever I saw ."
" He spoke of its being out of repair ."
" Well , and whose fault is that ?
why don ' t he repair it ?-- who should do it but himself ?"
They were interrupted by the servant ' s coming in to announce the carriage being at the door ; and Mrs . Jennings immediately preparing to go , said ,--
" Well , my dear , I must be gone before I have had half my talk out .
But , however , we may have it all over in the evening ; for we shall be quite alone .
I do not ask you to go with me , for I dare say your mind is too full of the matter to care for company ; and besides , you must long to tell your sister all about it ."
Marianne had left the room before the conversation began .
" Certainly , ma ' am , I shall tell Marianne of it ; but I shall not mention it at present to any body else ."
" Oh !
very well ," said Mrs . Jennings rather disappointed .
" Then you would not have me tell it to Lucy , for I think of going as far as Holborn to - day ."
" No , ma ' am , not even Lucy if you please .
One day ' s delay will not be very material ; and till I have written to Mr . Ferrars , I think it ought not to be mentioned to any body else .
I shall do THAT directly .
It is of importance that no time should be lost with him , for he will of course have much to do relative to his ordination ."
This speech at first puzzled Mrs . Jennings exceedingly .
Why Mr . Ferrars was to have been written to about it in such a hurry , she could not immediately comprehend .
A few moments ' reflection , however , produced a very happy idea , and she exclaimed ;--
" Oh , ho !-- I understand you .
Mr . Ferrars is to be the man .
Well , so much the better for him .
Ay , to be sure , he must be ordained in readiness ; and I am very glad to find things are so forward between you .
But , my dear , is not this rather out of character ?
Should not the Colonel write himself ?-- sure , he is the proper person ."
Elinor did not quite understand the beginning of Mrs . Jennings ' s speech , neither did she think it worth inquiring into ; and therefore only replied to its conclusion .
" Colonel Brandon is so delicate a man , that he rather wished any one to announce his intentions to Mr . Ferrars than himself ."
" And so YOU are forced to do it .
Well THAT is an odd kind of delicacy !
However , I will not disturb you ( seeing her preparing to write .)
You know your own concerns best .
So goodby , my dear .
I have not heard of any thing to please me so well since Charlotte was brought to bed ."
And away she went ; but returning again in a moment ,
" I have just been thinking of Betty ' s sister , my dear .
I should be very glad to get her so good a mistress .
But whether she would do for a lady ' s maid , I am sure I can ' t tell .
She is an excellent housemaid , and works very well at her needle .
However , you will think of all that at your leisure ."
" Certainly , ma ' am ," replied Elinor , not hearing much of what she said , and more anxious to be alone , than to be mistress of the subject .
How she should begin -- how she should express herself in her note to Edward , was now all her concern .
The particular circumstances between them made a difficulty of that which to any other person would have been the easiest thing in the world ; but she equally feared to say too much or too little , and sat deliberating over her paper , with the pen in her band , till broken in on by the entrance of Edward himself .
He had met Mrs . Jennings at the door in her way to the carriage , as he came to leave his farewell card ; and she , after apologising for not returning herself , had obliged him to enter , by saying that Miss Dashwood was above , and wanted to speak with him on very particular business .
Elinor had just been congratulating herself , in the midst of her perplexity , that however difficult it might be to express herself properly by letter , it was at least preferable to giving the information by word of mouth , when her visitor entered , to force her upon this greatest exertion of all .
Her astonishment and confusion were very great on his so sudden appearance .
She had not seen him before since his engagement became public , and therefore not since his knowing her to be acquainted with it ; which , with the consciousness of what she had been thinking of , and what she had to tell him , made her feel particularly uncomfortable for some minutes .
He too was much distressed ; and they sat down together in a most promising state of embarrassment .-- Whether he had asked her pardon for his intrusion on first coming into the room , he could not recollect ; but determining to be on the safe side , he made his apology in form as soon as he could say any thing , after taking a chair .
" Mrs . Jennings told me ," said he , " that you wished to speak with me , at least I understood her so -- or I certainly should not have intruded on you in such a manner ; though at the same time , I should have been extremely sorry to leave London without seeing you and your sister ; especially as it will most likely be some time -- it is not probable that I should soon have the pleasure of meeting you again .
I go to Oxford tomorrow ."
" You would not have gone , however ," said Elinor , recovering herself , and determined to get over what she so much dreaded as soon as possible , " without receiving our good wishes , even if we had not been able to give them in person .
Mrs . Jennings was quite right in what she said .
I have something of consequence to inform you of , which I was on the point of communicating by paper .
I am charged with a most agreeable office ( breathing rather faster than usual as she spoke .)
Colonel Brandon , who was here only ten minutes ago , has desired me to say , that understanding you mean to take orders , he has great pleasure in offering you the living of Delaford now just vacant , and only wishes it were more valuable .
Allow me to congratulate you on having so respectable and well - judging a friend , and to join in his wish that the living -- it is about two hundred a - year -- were much more considerable , and such as might better enable you to -- as might be more than a temporary accommodation to yourself -- such , in short , as might establish all your views of happiness ."
What Edward felt , as he could not say it himself , it cannot be expected that any one else should say for him .
He LOOKED all the astonishment which such unexpected , such unthought - of information could not fail of exciting ; but he said only these two words ,
" Colonel Brandon !"
" Yes ," continued Elinor , gathering more resolution , as some of the worst was over , " Colonel Brandon means it as a testimony of his concern for what has lately passed -- for the cruel situation in which the unjustifiable conduct of your family has placed you -- a concern which I am sure Marianne , myself , and all your friends , must share ; and likewise as a proof of his high esteem for your general character , and his particular approbation of your behaviour on the present occasion ."
" Colonel Brandon give ME a living !-- Can it be possible ?"
" The unkindness of your own relations has made you astonished to find friendship any where ."
" No ," replied be , with sudden consciousness , " not to find it in YOU ; for I cannot be ignorant that to you , to your goodness , I owe it all .-- I feel it -- I would express it if I could -- but , as you well know , I am no orator ."
" You are very much mistaken .
I do assure you that you owe it entirely , at least almost entirely , to your own merit , and Colonel Brandon ' s discernment of it .
I have had no hand in it .
I did not even know , till I understood his design , that the living was vacant ; nor had it ever occurred to me that he might have had such a living in his gift .
As a friend of mine , of my family , he may , perhaps -- indeed I know he HAS , still greater pleasure in bestowing it ; but , upon my word , you owe nothing to my solicitation ."
Truth obliged her to acknowledge some small share in the action , but she was at the same time so unwilling to appear as the benefactress of Edward , that she acknowledged it with hesitation ; which probably contributed to fix that suspicion in his mind which had recently entered it .
For a short time he sat deep in thought , after Elinor had ceased to speak ;-- at last , and as if it were rather an effort , he said ,
" Colonel Brandon seems a man of great worth and respectability .
I have always heard him spoken of as such , and your brother I know esteems him highly .
He is undoubtedly a sensible man , and in his manners perfectly the gentleman ."
" Indeed ," replied Elinor , " I believe that you will find him , on farther acquaintance , all that you have heard him to be , and as you will be such very near neighbours ( for I understand the parsonage is almost close to the mansion - house ,) it is particularly important that he SHOULD be all this ."
Edward made no answer ; but when she had turned away her head , gave her a look so serious , so earnest , so uncheerful , as seemed to say , that he might hereafter wish the distance between the parsonage and the mansion - house much greater .
" Colonel Brandon , I think , lodges in St . James Street ," said he , soon afterwards , rising from his chair .
Elinor told him the number of the house .
" I must hurry away then , to give him those thanks which you will not allow me to give YOU ; to assure him that he has made me a very -- an exceedingly happy man ."
Elinor did not offer to detain him ; and they parted , with a very earnest assurance on HER side of her unceasing good wishes for his happiness in every change of situation that might befall him ; on HIS , with rather an attempt to return the same good will , than the power of expressing it .
" When I see him again ," said Elinor to herself , as the door shut him out , " I shall see him the husband of Lucy ."
And with this pleasing anticipation , she sat down to reconsider the past , recall the words and endeavour to comprehend all the feelings of Edward ; and , of course , to reflect on her own with discontent .
When Mrs . Jennings came home , though she returned from seeing people whom she had never seen before , and of whom therefore she must have a great deal to say , her mind was so much more occupied by the important secret in her possession , than by anything else , that she reverted to it again as soon as Elinor appeared .
" Well , my dear ," she cried , " I sent you up to the young man .
Did not I do right ?-- And I suppose you had no great difficulty -- You did not find him very unwilling to accept your proposal ?"
" No , ma ' am ; THAT was not very likely ."
" Well , and how soon will he be ready ?-- For it seems all to depend upon that ."
" Really ," said Elinor , " I know so little of these kind of forms , that I can hardly even conjecture as to the time , or the preparation necessary ; but I suppose two or three months will complete his ordination ."
" Two or three months !"
cried Mrs . Jennings ; " Lord !
my dear , how calmly you talk of it ; and can the Colonel wait two or three months !
Lord bless me !-- I am sure it would put ME quite out of patience !-- And though one would be very glad to do a kindness by poor Mr . Ferrars , I do think it is not worth while to wait two or three months for him .
Sure somebody else might be found that would do as well ; somebody that is in orders already ."
" My dear ma ' am ," said Elinor , " what can you be thinking of ?-- Why , Colonel Brandon ' s only object is to be of use to Mr .
Ferrars ."
" Lord bless you , my dear !-- Sure you do not mean to persuade me that the Colonel only marries you for the sake of giving ten guineas to Mr .
Ferrars !"
The deception could not continue after this ; and an explanation immediately took place , by which both gained considerable amusement for the moment , without any material loss of happiness to either , for Mrs . Jennings only exchanged one form of delight for another , and still without forfeiting her expectation of the first .
" Aye , aye , the parsonage is but a small one ," said she , after the first ebullition of surprise and satisfaction was over , " and very likely MAY be out of repair ; but to hear a man apologising , as I thought , for a house that to my knowledge has five sitting rooms on the ground - floor , and I think the housekeeper told me could make up fifteen beds !-- and to you too , that had been used to live in Barton cottage !-- It seems quite ridiculous .
But , my dear , we must touch up the Colonel to do some thing to the parsonage , and make it comfortable for them , before Lucy goes to it ."
" But Colonel Brandon does not seem to have any idea of the living ' s being enough to allow them to marry ."
" The Colonel is a ninny , my dear ; because he has two thousand a - year himself , he thinks that nobody else can marry on less .
Take my word for it , that , if I am alive , I shall be paying a visit at Delaford Parsonage before Michaelmas ; and I am sure I sha ' nt go if Lucy an ' t there ."
Elinor was quite of her opinion , as to the probability of their not waiting for any thing more .
CHAPTER 41
Edward , having carried his thanks to Colonel Brandon , proceeded with his happiness to Lucy ; and such was the excess of it by the time he reached Bartlett ' s Buildings , that she was able to assure Mrs . Jennings , who called on her again the next day with her congratulations , that she had never seen him in such spirits before in her life .
Her own happiness , and her own spirits , were at least very certain ; and she joined Mrs . Jennings most heartily in her expectation of their being all comfortably together in Delaford Parsonage before Michaelmas .
So far was she , at the same time , from any backwardness to give Elinor that credit which Edward WOULD give her , that she spoke of her friendship for them both with the most grateful warmth , was ready to own all their obligation to her , and openly declared that no exertion for their good on Miss Dashwood ' s part , either present or future , would ever surprise her , for she believed her capable of doing any thing in the world for those she really valued .
As for Colonel Brandon , she was not only ready to worship him as a saint , but was moreover truly anxious that he should be treated as one in all worldly concerns ; anxious that his tithes should be raised to the utmost ; and scarcely resolved to avail herself , at Delaford , as far as she possibly could , of his servants , his carriage , his cows , and his poultry .
It was now above a week since John Dashwood had called in Berkeley Street , and as since that time no notice had been taken by them of his wife ' s indisposition , beyond one verbal enquiry , Elinor began to feel it necessary to pay her a visit .-- This was an obligation , however , which not only opposed her own inclination , but which had not the assistance of any encouragement from her companions .
Marianne , not contented with absolutely refusing to go herself , was very urgent to prevent her sister ' s going at all ; and Mrs . Jennings , though her carriage was always at Elinor ' s service , so very much disliked Mrs . John Dashwood , that not even her curiosity to see how she looked after the late discovery , nor her strong desire to affront her by taking Edward ' s part , could overcome her unwillingness to be in her company again .
The consequence was , that Elinor set out by herself to pay a visit , for which no one could really have less inclination , and to run the risk of a tete - a - tete with a woman , whom neither of the others had so much reason to dislike .
Mrs . Dashwood was denied ; but before the carriage could turn from the house , her husband accidentally came out .
He expressed great pleasure in meeting Elinor , told her that he had been just going to call in Berkeley Street , and , assuring her that Fanny would be very glad to see her , invited her to come in .
They walked up stairs in to the drawing - room .-- Nobody was there .
" Fanny is in her own room , I suppose ," said he :--" I will go to her presently , for I am sure she will not have the least objection in the world to seeing YOU .-- Very far from it , indeed .
NOW especially there cannot be -- but however , you and Marianne were always great favourites .-- Why would not Marianne come ?"
--
Elinor made what excuse she could for her .
" I am not sorry to see you alone ," he replied , " for I have a good deal to say to you .
This living of Colonel Brandon ' s -- can it be true ?-- has he really given it to Edward ?-- I heard it yesterday by chance , and was coming to you on purpose to enquire farther about it ."
" It is perfectly true .-- Colonel Brandon has given the living of Delaford to Edward ."
" Really !-- Well , this is very astonishing !-- no relationship !-- no connection between them !-- and now that livings fetch such a price !-- what was the value of this ?"
" About two hundred a year ."
" Very well -- and for the next presentation to a living of that value -- supposing the late incumbent to have been old and sickly , and likely to vacate it soon -- he might have got I dare say -- fourteen hundred pounds .
And how came he not to have settled that matter before this person ' s death ?-- NOW indeed it would be too late to sell it , but a man of Colonel Brandon ' s sense !-- I wonder he should be so improvident in a point of such common , such natural , concern !-- Well , I am convinced that there is a vast deal of inconsistency in almost every human character .
I suppose , however -- on recollection -- that the case may probably be THIS .
Edward is only to hold the living till the person to whom the Colonel has really sold the presentation , is old enough to take it .-- Aye , aye , that is the fact , depend upon it ."
Elinor contradicted it , however , very positively ; and by relating that she had herself been employed in conveying the offer from Colonel Brandon to Edward , and , therefore , must understand the terms on which it was given , obliged him to submit to her authority .
" It is truly astonishing !"
-- he cried , after hearing what she said --" what could be the Colonel ' s motive ?"
" A very simple one -- to be of use to Mr .
Ferrars ."
" Well , well ; whatever Colonel Brandon may be , Edward is a very lucky man .-- You will not mention the matter to Fanny , however , for though I have broke it to her , and she bears it vastly well ,-- she will not like to hear it much talked of ."
Elinor had some difficulty here to refrain from observing , that she thought Fanny might have borne with composure , an acquisition of wealth to her brother , by which neither she nor her child could be possibly impoverished .
" Mrs . Ferrars ," added he , lowering his voice to the tone becoming so important a subject , " knows nothing about it at present , and I believe it will be best to keep it entirely concealed from her as long as may be .-- When the marriage takes place , I fear she must hear of it all ."
" But why should such precaution be used ?-- Though it is not to be supposed that Mrs . Ferrars can have the smallest satisfaction in knowing that her son has money enough to live upon ,-- for THAT must be quite out of the question ; yet why , upon her late behaviour , is she supposed to feel at all ?-- She has done with her son , she cast him off for ever , and has made all those over whom she had any influence , cast him off likewise .
Surely , after doing so , she cannot be imagined liable to any impression of sorrow or of joy on his account -- she cannot be interested in any thing that befalls him .-- She would not be so weak as to throw away the comfort of a child , and yet retain the anxiety of a parent !"
" Ah !
Elinor ," said John , " your reasoning is very good , but it is founded on ignorance of human nature .
When Edward ' s unhappy match takes place , depend upon it his mother will feel as much as if she had never discarded him ; and , therefore every circumstance that may accelerate that dreadful event , must be concealed from her as much as possible .
Mrs . Ferrars can never forget that Edward is her son ."
" You surprise me ; I should think it must nearly have escaped her memory by THIS time ."
" You wrong her exceedingly .
Mrs . Ferrars is one of the most affectionate mothers in the world ."
Elinor was silent .
" We think NOW ,"-- said Mr . Dashwood , after a short pause , " of ROBERT ' S marrying Miss Morton ."
Elinor , smiling at the grave and decisive importance of her brother ' s tone , calmly replied ,
" The lady , I suppose , has no choice in the affair ."
" Choice !-- how do you mean ?"
" I only mean that I suppose , from your manner of speaking , it must be the same to Miss Morton whether she marry Edward or Robert ."
" Certainly , there can be no difference ; for Robert will now to all intents and purposes be considered as the eldest son ;-- and as to any thing else , they are both very agreeable young men : I do not know that one is superior to the other ."
Elinor said no more , and John was also for a short time silent .-- His reflections ended thus .
" Of ONE thing , my dear sister ," kindly taking her hand , and speaking in an awful whisper ,--" I may assure you ;-- and I WILL do it , because I know it must gratify you .
I have good reason to think -- indeed I have it from the best authority , or I should not repeat it , for otherwise it would be very wrong to say any thing about it -- but I have it from the very best authority -- not that I ever precisely heard Mrs . Ferrars say it herself -- but her daughter DID , and I have it from her -- That in short , whatever objections there might be against a certain -- a certain connection -- you understand me -- it would have been far preferable to her , it would not have given her half the vexation that THIS does .
I was exceedingly pleased to hear that Mrs . Ferrars considered it in that light -- a very gratifying circumstance you know to us all .
' It would have been beyond comparison ,' she said , ' the least evil of the two , and she would be glad to compound NOW for nothing worse .'
But however , all that is quite out of the question -- not to be thought of or mentioned -- as to any attachment you know -- it never could be -- all that is gone by .
But I thought I would just tell you of this , because I knew how much it must please you .
Not that you have any reason to regret , my dear Elinor .
There is no doubt of your doing exceedingly well -- quite as well , or better , perhaps , all things considered .
Has Colonel Brandon been with you lately ?"
Elinor had heard enough , if not to gratify her vanity , and raise her self - importance , to agitate her nerves and fill her mind ;-- and she was therefore glad to be spared from the necessity of saying much in reply herself , and from the danger of hearing any thing more from her brother , by the entrance of Mr . Robert Ferrars .
After a few moments ' chat , John Dashwood , recollecting that Fanny was yet uninformed of her sister ' s being there , quitted the room in quest of her ; and Elinor was left to improve her acquaintance with Robert , who , by the gay unconcern , the happy self - complacency of his manner while enjoying so unfair a division of his mother ' s love and liberality , to the prejudice of his banished brother , earned only by his own dissipated course of life , and that brother ' s integrity , was confirming her most unfavourable opinion of his head and heart .
They had scarcely been two minutes by themselves , before he began to speak of Edward ; for he , too , had heard of the living , and was very inquisitive on the subject .
Elinor repeated the particulars of it , as she had given them to John ; and their effect on Robert , though very different , was not less striking than it had been on HIM .
He laughed most immoderately .
The idea of Edward ' s being a clergyman , and living in a small parsonage - house , diverted him beyond measure ;-- and when to that was added the fanciful imagery of Edward reading prayers in a white surplice , and publishing the banns of marriage between John Smith and Mary Brown , he could conceive nothing more ridiculous .
Elinor , while she waited in silence and immovable gravity , the conclusion of such folly , could not restrain her eyes from being fixed on him with a look that spoke all the contempt it excited .
It was a look , however , very well bestowed , for it relieved her own feelings , and gave no intelligence to him .
He was recalled from wit to wisdom , not by any reproof of her ' s , but by his own sensibility .
" We may treat it as a joke ," said he , at last , recovering from the affected laugh which had considerably lengthened out the genuine gaiety of the moment --" but , upon my soul , it is a most serious business .
Poor Edward !
he is ruined for ever .
I am extremely sorry for it -- for I know him to be a very good - hearted creature ; as well - meaning a fellow perhaps , as any in the world .
You must not judge of him , Miss Dashwood , from YOUR slight acquaintance .-- Poor Edward !-- His manners are certainly not the happiest in nature .-- But we are not all born , you know , with the same powers ,-- the same address .-- Poor fellow !-- to see him in a circle of strangers !-- to be sure it was pitiable enough !-- but upon my soul , I believe he has as good a heart as any in the kingdom ; and I declare and protest to you I never was so shocked in my life , as when it all burst forth .
I could not believe it .-- My mother was the first person who told me of it ; and I , feeling myself called on to act with resolution , immediately said to her , ' My dear madam , I do not know what you may intend to do on the occasion , but as for myself , I must say , that if Edward does marry this young woman , I never will see him again .'
That was what I said immediately .-- I was most uncommonly shocked , indeed !-- Poor Edward !-- he has done for himself completely -- shut himself out for ever from all decent society !-- but , as I directly said to my mother , I am not in the least surprised at it ; from his style of education , it was always to be expected .
My poor mother was half frantic ."
" Have you ever seen the lady ?"
" Yes ; once , while she was staying in this house , I happened to drop in for ten minutes ; and I saw quite enough of her .
The merest awkward country girl , without style , or elegance , and almost without beauty .-- I remember her perfectly .
Just the kind of girl I should suppose likely to captivate poor Edward .
I offered immediately , as soon as my mother related the affair to me , to talk to him myself , and dissuade him from the match ; but it was too late THEN , I found , to do any thing , for unluckily , I was not in the way at first , and knew nothing of it till after the breach had taken place , when it was not for me , you know , to interfere .
But had I been informed of it a few hours earlier -- I think it is most probable -- that something might have been hit on .
I certainly should have represented it to Edward in a very strong light .
' My dear fellow ,' I should have said , ' consider what you are doing .
You are making a most disgraceful connection , and such a one as your family are unanimous in disapproving .'
I cannot help thinking , in short , that means might have been found .
But now it is all too late .
He must be starved , you know ;-- that is certain ; absolutely starved ."
He had just settled this point with great composure , when the entrance of Mrs . John Dashwood put an end to the subject .
But though SHE never spoke of it out of her own family , Elinor could see its influence on her mind , in the something like confusion of countenance with which she entered , and an attempt at cordiality in her behaviour to herself .
She even proceeded so far as to be concerned to find that Elinor and her sister were so soon to leave town , as she had hoped to see more of them ;-- an exertion in which her husband , who attended her into the room , and hung enamoured over her accents , seemed to distinguish every thing that was most affectionate and graceful .
CHAPTER 42
One other short call in Harley Street , in which Elinor received her brother ' s congratulations on their travelling so far towards Barton without any expense , and on Colonel Brandon ' s being to follow them to Cleveland in a day or two , completed the intercourse of the brother and sisters in town ;-- and a faint invitation from Fanny , to come to Norland whenever it should happen to be in their way , which of all things was the most unlikely to occur , with a more warm , though less public , assurance , from John to Elinor , of the promptitude with which he should come to see her at Delaford , was all that foretold any meeting in the country .
It amused her to observe that all her friends seemed determined to send her to Delaford ;-- a place , in which , of all others , she would now least chuse to visit , or wish to reside ; for not only was it considered as her future home by her brother and Mrs . Jennings , but even Lucy , when they parted , gave her a pressing invitation to visit her there .
Very early in April , and tolerably early in the day , the two parties from Hanover Square and Berkeley Street set out from their respective homes , to meet , by appointment , on the road .
For the convenience of Charlotte and her child , they were to be more than two days on their journey , and Mr . Palmer , travelling more expeditiously with Colonel Brandon , was to join them at Cleveland soon after their arrival .
Marianne , few as had been her hours of comfort in London , and eager as she had long been to quit it , could not , when it came to the point , bid adieu to the house in which she had for the last time enjoyed those hopes , and that confidence , in Willoughby , which were now extinguished for ever , without great pain .
Nor could she leave the place in which Willoughby remained , busy in new engagements , and new schemes , in which SHE could have no share , without shedding many tears .
Elinor ' s satisfaction , at the moment of removal , was more positive .
She had no such object for her lingering thoughts to fix on , she left no creature behind , from whom it would give her a moment ' s regret to be divided for ever , she was pleased to be free herself from the persecution of Lucy ' s friendship , she was grateful for bringing her sister away unseen by Willoughby since his marriage , and she looked forward with hope to what a few months of tranquility at Barton might do towards restoring Marianne ' s peace of mind , and confirming her own .
Their journey was safely performed .
The second day brought them into the cherished , or the prohibited , county of Somerset , for as such was it dwelt on by turns in Marianne ' s imagination ; and in the forenoon of the third they drove up to Cleveland .
Cleveland was a spacious , modern - built house , situated on a sloping lawn .
It had no park , but the pleasure - grounds were tolerably extensive ; and like every other place of the same degree of importance , it had its open shrubbery , and closer wood walk , a road of smooth gravel winding round a plantation , led to the front , the lawn was dotted over with timber , the house itself was under the guardianship of the fir , the mountain - ash , and the acacia , and a thick screen of them altogether , interspersed with tall Lombardy poplars , shut out the offices .
Marianne entered the house with a heart swelling with emotion from the consciousness of being only eighty miles from Barton , and not thirty from Combe Magna ; and before she had been five minutes within its walls , while the others were busily helping Charlotte to show her child to the housekeeper , she quitted it again , stealing away through the winding shrubberies , now just beginning to be in beauty , to gain a distant eminence ; where , from its Grecian temple , her eye , wandering over a wide tract of country to the south - east , could fondly rest on the farthest ridge of hills in the horizon , and fancy that from their summits Combe Magna might be seen .
In such moments of precious , invaluable misery , she rejoiced in tears of agony to be at Cleveland ; and as she returned by a different circuit to the house , feeling all the happy privilege of country liberty , of wandering from place to place in free and luxurious solitude , she resolved to spend almost every hour of every day while she remained with the Palmers , in the indulgence of such solitary rambles .
She returned just in time to join the others as they quitted the house , on an excursion through its more immediate premises ; and the rest of the morning was easily whiled away , in lounging round the kitchen garden , examining the bloom upon its walls , and listening to the gardener ' s lamentations upon blights , in dawdling through the green - house , where the loss of her favourite plants , unwarily exposed , and nipped by the lingering frost , raised the laughter of Charlotte ,-- and in visiting her poultry - yard , where , in the disappointed hopes of her dairy - maid , by hens forsaking their nests , or being stolen by a fox , or in the rapid decrease of a promising young brood , she found fresh sources of merriment .
The morning was fine and dry , and Marianne , in her plan of employment abroad , had not calculated for any change of weather during their stay at Cleveland .
With great surprise therefore , did she find herself prevented by a settled rain from going out again after dinner .
She had depended on a twilight walk to the Grecian temple , and perhaps all over the grounds , and an evening merely cold or damp would not have deterred her from it ; but a heavy and settled rain even SHE could not fancy dry or pleasant weather for walking .
Their party was small , and the hours passed quietly away .
Mrs . Palmer had her child , and Mrs . Jennings her carpet - work ; they talked of the friends they had left behind , arranged Lady Middleton ' s engagements , and wondered whether Mr . Palmer and Colonel Brandon would get farther than Reading that night .
Elinor , however little concerned in it , joined in their discourse ; and Marianne , who had the knack of finding her way in every house to the library , however it might be avoided by the family in general , soon procured herself a book .
Nothing was wanting on Mrs . Palmer ' s side that constant and friendly good humour could do , to make them feel themselves welcome .
The openness and heartiness of her manner more than atoned for that want of recollection and elegance which made her often deficient in the forms of politeness ; her kindness , recommended by so pretty a face , was engaging ; her folly , though evident was not disgusting , because it was not conceited ; and Elinor could have forgiven every thing but her laugh .
The two gentlemen arrived the next day to a very late dinner , affording a pleasant enlargement of the party , and a very welcome variety to their conversation , which a long morning of the same continued rain had reduced very low .
Elinor had seen so little of Mr . Palmer , and in that little had seen so much variety in his address to her sister and herself , that she knew not what to expect to find him in his own family .
She found him , however , perfectly the gentleman in his behaviour to all his visitors , and only occasionally rude to his wife and her mother ; she found him very capable of being a pleasant companion , and only prevented from being so always , by too great an aptitude to fancy himself as much superior to people in general , as he must feel himself to be to Mrs . Jennings and Charlotte .
For the rest of his character and habits , they were marked , as far as Elinor could perceive , with no traits at all unusual in his sex and time of life .
He was nice in his eating , uncertain in his hours ; fond of his child , though affecting to slight it ; and idled away the mornings at billiards , which ought to have been devoted to business .
She liked him , however , upon the whole , much better than she had expected , and in her heart was not sorry that she could like him no more ;-- not sorry to be driven by the observation of his Epicurism , his selfishness , and his conceit , to rest with complacency on the remembrance of Edward ' s generous temper , simple taste , and diffident feelings .
Of Edward , or at least of some of his concerns , she now received intelligence from Colonel Brandon , who had been into Dorsetshire lately ; and who , treating her at once as the disinterested friend of Mr . Ferrars , and the kind of confidant of himself , talked to her a great deal of the parsonage at Delaford , described its deficiencies , and told her what he meant to do himself towards removing them .-- His behaviour to her in this , as well as in every other particular , his open pleasure in meeting her after an absence of only ten days , his readiness to converse with her , and his deference for her opinion , might very well justify Mrs . Jennings ' s persuasion of his attachment , and would have been enough , perhaps , had not Elinor still , as from the first , believed Marianne his real favourite , to make her suspect it herself .
But as it was , such a notion had scarcely ever entered her head , except by Mrs . Jennings ' s suggestion ; and she could not help believing herself the nicest observer of the two ;-- she watched his eyes , while Mrs . Jennings thought only of his behaviour ;-- and while his looks of anxious solicitude on Marianne ' s feeling , in her head and throat , the beginning of a heavy cold , because unexpressed by words , entirely escaped the latter lady ' s observation ;-- SHE could discover in them the quick feelings , and needless alarm of a lover .
Two delighful twilight walks on the third and fourth evenings of her being there , not merely on the dry gravel of the shrubbery , but all over the grounds , and especially in the most distant parts of them , where there was something more of wildness than in the rest , where the trees were the oldest , and the grass was the longest and wettest , had -- assisted by the still greater imprudence of sitting in her wet shoes and stockings -- given Marianne a cold so violent as , though for a day or two trifled with or denied , would force itself by increasing ailments on the concern of every body , and the notice of herself .
Prescriptions poured in from all quarters , and as usual , were all declined .
Though heavy and feverish , with a pain in her limbs , and a cough , and a sore throat , a good night ' s rest was to cure her entirely ; and it was with difficulty that Elinor prevailed on her , when she went to bed , to try one or two of the simplest of the remedies .
CHAPTER 43
Marianne got up the next morning at her usual time ; to every inquiry replied that she was better , and tried to prove herself so , by engaging in her accustomary employments .
But a day spent in sitting shivering over the fire with a book in her hand , which she was unable to read , or in lying , weary and languid , on a sofa , did not speak much in favour of her amendment ; and when , at last , she went early to bed , more and more indisposed , Colonel Brandon was only astonished at her sister ' s composure , who , though attending and nursing her the whole day , against Marianne inclination , and forcing proper medicines on her at night , trusted , like Marianne , to the certainty and efficacy of sleep , and felt no real alarm .
A very restless and feverish night , however , disappointed the expectation of both ; and when Marianne , after persisting in rising , confessed herself unable to sit up , and returned voluntarily to her bed , Elinor was very ready to adopt Mrs . Jennings ' s advice , of sending for the Palmers ' apothecary .
He came , examined his patient , and though encouraging Miss Dashwood to expect that a very few days would restore her sister to health , yet , by pronouncing her disorder to have a putrid tendency , and allowing the word " infection " to pass his lips , gave instant alarm to Mrs . Palmer , on her baby ' s account .
Mrs . Jennings , who had been inclined from the first to think Marianne ' s complaint more serious than Elinor , now looked very grave on Mr . Harris ' s report , and confirming Charlotte ' s fears and caution , urged the necessity of her immediate removal with her infant ; and Mr . Palmer , though treating their apprehensions as idle , found the anxiety and importunity of his wife too great to be withstood .
Her departure , therefore , was fixed on ; and within an hour after Mr . Harris ' s arrival , she set off , with her little boy and his nurse , for the house of a near relation of Mr . Palmer ' s , who lived a few miles on the other side of Bath ; whither her husband promised , at her earnest entreaty , to join her in a day or two ; and whither she was almost equally urgent with her mother to accompany her .
Mrs . Jennings , however , with a kindness of heart which made Elinor really love her , declared her resolution of not stirring from Cleveland as long as Marianne remained ill , and of endeavouring , by her own attentive care , to supply to her the place of the mother she had taken her from ; and Elinor found her on every occasion a most willing and active helpmate , desirous to share in all her fatigues , and often by her better experience in nursing , of material use .
Poor Marianne , languid and low from the nature of her malady , and feeling herself universally ill , could no longer hope that tomorrow would find her recovered ; and the idea of what tomorrow would have produced , but for this unlucky illness , made every ailment severe ; for on that day they were to have begun their journey home ; and , attended the whole way by a servant of Mrs . Jennings , were to have taken their mother by surprise on the following forenoon .
The little she said was all in lamentation of this inevitable delay ; though Elinor tried to raise her spirits , and make her believe , as she THEN really believed herself , that it would be a very short one .
The next day produced little or no alteration in the state of the patient ; she certainly was not better , and , except that there was no amendment , did not appear worse .
Their party was now farther reduced ; for Mr . Palmer , though very unwilling to go as well from real humanity and good - nature , as from a dislike of appearing to be frightened away by his wife , was persuaded at last by Colonel Brandon to perform his promise of following her ; and while he was preparing to go , Colonel Brandon himself , with a much greater exertion , began to talk of going likewise .-- Here , however , the kindness of Mrs . Jennings interposed most acceptably ; for to send the Colonel away while his love was in so much uneasiness on her sister ' s account , would be to deprive them both , she thought , of every comfort ; and therefore telling him at once that his stay at Cleveland was necessary to herself , that she should want him to play at piquet of an evening , while Miss Dashwood was above with her sister , & c . she urged him so strongly to remain , that he , who was gratifying the first wish of his own heart by a compliance , could not long even affect to demur ; especially as Mrs . Jennings ' s entreaty was warmly seconded by Mr . Palmer , who seemed to feel a relief to himself , in leaving behind him a person so well able to assist or advise Miss Dashwood in any emergence .
Marianne was , of course , kept in ignorance of all these arrangements .
She knew not that she had been the means of sending the owners of Cleveland away , in about seven days from the time of their arrival .
It gave her no surprise that she saw nothing of Mrs . Palmer ; and as it gave her likewise no concern , she never mentioned her name .
Two days passed away from the time of Mr . Palmer ' s departure , and her situation continued , with little variation , the same .
Mr . Harris , who attended her every day , still talked boldly of a speedy recovery , and Miss Dashwood was equally sanguine ; but the expectation of the others was by no means so cheerful .
Mrs . Jennings had determined very early in the seizure that Marianne would never get over it , and Colonel Brandon , who was chiefly of use in listening to Mrs . Jennings ' s forebodings , was not in a state of mind to resist their influence .
He tried to reason himself out of fears , which the different judgment of the apothecary seemed to render absurd ; but the many hours of each day in which he was left entirely alone , were but too favourable for the admission of every melancholy idea , and he could not expel from his mind the persuasion that he should see Marianne no more .
On the morning of the third day however , the gloomy anticipations of both were almost done away ; for when Mr . Harris arrived , he declared his patient materially better .
Her pulse was much stronger , and every symptom more favourable than on the preceding visit .
Elinor , confirmed in every pleasant hope , was all cheerfulness ; rejoicing that in her letters to her mother , she had pursued her own judgment rather than her friend ' s , in making very light of the indisposition which delayed them at Cleveland ; and almost fixing on the time when Marianne would be able to travel .
But the day did not close so auspiciously as it began .-- Towards the evening Marianne became ill again , growing more heavy , restless , and uncomfortable than before .
Her sister , however , still sanguine , was willing to attribute the change to nothing more than the fatigue of having sat up to have her bed made ; and carefully administering the cordials prescribed , saw her , with satisfaction , sink at last into a slumber , from which she expected the most beneficial effects .
Her sleep , though not so quiet as Elinor wished to see it , lasted a considerable time ; and anxious to observe the result of it herself , she resolved to sit with her during the whole of it .
Mrs . Jennings , knowing nothing of any change in the patient , went unusually early to bed ; her maid , who was one of the principal nurses , was recreating herself in the housekeeper ' s room , and Elinor remained alone with Marianne .
The repose of the latter became more and more disturbed ; and her sister , who watched , with unremitting attention her continual change of posture , and heard the frequent but inarticulate sounds of complaint which passed her lips , was almost wishing to rouse her from so painful a slumber , when Marianne , suddenly awakened by some accidental noise in the house , started hastily up , and , with feverish wildness , cried out ,--
" Is mama coming ?--"
" Not yet ," cried the other , concealing her terror , and assisting Marianne to lie down again , " but she will be here , I hope , before it is long .
It is a great way , you know , from hence to Barton ."
" But she must not go round by London ," cried Marianne , in the same hurried manner .
" I shall never see her , if she goes by London ."
Elinor perceived with alarm that she was not quite herself , and , while attempting to soothe her , eagerly felt her pulse .
It was lower and quicker than ever !
and Marianne , still talking wildly of mama , her alarm increased so rapidly , as to determine her on sending instantly for Mr . Harris , and despatching a messenger to Barton for her mother .
To consult with Colonel Brandon on the best means of effecting the latter , was a thought which immediately followed the resolution of its performance ; and as soon she had rung up the maid to take her place by her sister , she hastened down to the drawing - room , where she knew he was generally to be found at a much later hour than the present .
It was no time for hesitation .
Her fears and her difficulties were immediately before him .
Her fears , he had no courage , no confidence to attempt the removal of :-- he listened to them in silent despondence ;-- but her difficulties were instantly obviated , for with a readiness that seemed to speak the occasion , and the service pre - arranged in his mind , he offered himself as the messenger who should fetch Mrs . Dashwood .
Elinor made no resistance that was not easily overcome .
She thanked him with brief , though fervent gratitude , and while he went to hurry off his servant with a message to Mr . Harris , and an order for post - horses directly , she wrote a few lines to her mother .
The comfort of such a friend at that moment as Colonel Brandon -- or such a companion for her mother ,-- how gratefully was it felt !-- a companion whose judgment would guide , whose attendance must relieve , and whose friendship might soothe her !-- as far as the shock of such a summons COULD be lessened to her , his presence , his manners , his assistance , would lessen it .
HE , meanwhile , whatever he might feel , acted with all the firmness of a collected mind , made every necessary arrangement with the utmost despatch , and calculated with exactness the time in which she might look for his return .
Not a moment was lost in delay of any kind .
The horses arrived , even before they were expected , and Colonel Brandon only pressing her hand with a look of solemnity , and a few words spoken too low to reach her ear , hurried into the carriage .
It was then about twelve o ' clock , and she returned to her sister ' s apartment to wait for the arrival of the apothecary , and to watch by her the rest of the night .
It was a night of almost equal suffering to both .
Hour after hour passed away in sleepless pain and delirium on Marianne ' s side , and in the most cruel anxiety on Elinor ' s , before Mr . Harris appeared .
Her apprehensions once raised , paid by their excess for all her former security ; and the servant who sat up with her , for she would not allow Mrs . Jennings to be called , only tortured her more , by hints of what her mistress had always thought .
Marianne ' s ideas were still , at intervals , fixed incoherently on her mother , and whenever she mentioned her name , it gave a pang to the heart of poor Elinor , who , reproaching herself for having trifled with so many days of illness , and wretched for some immediate relief , fancied that all relief might soon be in vain , that every thing had been delayed too long , and pictured to herself her suffering mother arriving too late to see this darling child , or to see her rational .
She was on the point of sending again for Mr . Harris , or if HE could not come , for some other advice , when the former -- but not till after five o ' clock -- arrived .
His opinion , however , made some little amends for his delay , for though acknowledging a very unexpected and unpleasant alteration in his patient , he would not allow the danger to be material , and talked of the relief which a fresh mode of treatment must procure , with a confidence which , in a lesser degree , was communicated to Elinor .
He promised to call again in the course of three or four hours , and left both the patient and her anxious attendant more composed than he had found them .
With strong concern , and with many reproaches for not being called to their aid , did Mrs . Jennings hear in the morning of what had passed .
Her former apprehensions , now with greater reason restored , left her no doubt of the event ; and though trying to speak comfort to Elinor , her conviction of her sister ' s danger would not allow her to offer the comfort of hope .
Her heart was really grieved .
The rapid decay , the early death of a girl so young , so lovely as Marianne , must have struck a less interested person with concern .
On Mrs . Jennings ' s compassion she had other claims .
She had been for three months her companion , was still under her care , and she was known to have been greatly injured , and long unhappy .
The distress of her sister too , particularly a favourite , was before her ;-- and as for their mother , when Mrs . Jennings considered that Marianne might probably be to HER what Charlotte was to herself , her sympathy in HER sufferings was very sincere .
Mr . Harris was punctual in his second visit ;-- but he came to be disappointed in his hopes of what the last would produce .
His medicines had failed ;-- the fever was unabated ; and Marianne only more quiet -- not more herself -- remained in a heavy stupor .
Elinor , catching all , and more than all , his fears in a moment , proposed to call in further advice .
But he judged it unnecessary : he had still something more to try , some more fresh application , of whose success he was as confident as the last , and his visit concluded with encouraging assurances which reached the ear , but could not enter the heart of Miss Dashwood .
She was calm , except when she thought of her mother ; but she was almost hopeless ; and in this state she continued till noon , scarcely stirring from her sister ' s bed , her thoughts wandering from one image of grief , one suffering friend to another , and her spirits oppressed to the utmost by the conversation of Mrs . Jennings , who scrupled not to attribute the severity and danger of this attack to the many weeks of previous indisposition which Marianne ' s disappointment had brought on .
Elinor felt all the reasonableness of the idea , and it gave fresh misery to her reflections .
About noon , however , she began -- but with a caution -- a dread of disappointment which for some time kept her silent , even to her friend -- to fancy , to hope she could perceive a slight amendment in her sister ' s pulse ;-- she waited , watched , and examined it again and again ;-- and at last , with an agitation more difficult to bury under exterior calmness , than all her foregoing distress , ventured to communicate her hopes .
Mrs . Jennings , though forced , on examination , to acknowledge a temporary revival , tried to keep her young friend from indulging a thought of its continuance ;-- and Elinor , conning over every injunction of distrust , told herself likewise not to hope .
But it was too late .
Hope had already entered ; and feeling all its anxious flutter , she bent over her sister to watch -- she hardly knew for what .
Half an hour passed away , and the favourable symptom yet blessed her .
Others even arose to confirm it .
Her breath , her skin , her lips , all flattered Elinor with signs of amendment ; and Marianne fixed her eyes on her with a rational , though languid , gaze .
Anxiety and hope now oppressed her in equal degrees , and left her no moment of tranquillity till the arrival of Mr . Harris at four o ' clock ;-- when his assurances , his felicitations on a recovery in her sister even surpassing his expectation , gave her confidence , comfort , and tears of joy .
Marianne was in every respect materially better , and he declared her entirely out of danger .
Mrs . Jennings , perhaps satisfied with the partial justification of her forebodings which had been found in their late alarm , allowed herself to trust in his judgment , and admitted , with unfeigned joy , and soon with unequivocal cheerfulness , the probability of an entire recovery .
Elinor could not be cheerful .
Her joy was of a different kind , and led to any thing rather than to gaiety .
Marianne restored to life , health , friends , and to her doting mother , was an idea to fill her heart with sensations of exquisite comfort , and expand it in fervent gratitude ;-- but it lead to no outward demonstrations of joy , no words , no smiles .
All within Elinor ' s breast was satisfaction , silent and strong .
She continued by the side of her sister , with little intermission the whole afternoon , calming every fear , satisfying every inquiry of her enfeebled spirits , supplying every succour , and watching almost every look and every breath .
The possibility of a relapse would of course , in some moments , occur to remind her of what anxiety was -- but when she saw , on her frequent and minute examination , that every symptom of recovery continued , and saw Marianne at six o ' clock sink into a quiet , steady , and to all appearance comfortable , sleep , she silenced every doubt .
The time was now drawing on , when Colonel Brandon might be expected back .
At ten o ' clock , she trusted , or at least not much later her mother would be relieved from the dreadful suspense in which she must now be travelling towards them .
The Colonel , too !-- perhaps scarcely less an object of pity !-- Oh !-- how slow was the progress of time which yet kept them in ignorance !
At seven o ' clock , leaving Marianne still sweetly asleep , she joined Mrs . Jennings in the drawing - room to tea .
Of breakfast she had been kept by her fears , and of dinner by their sudden reverse , from eating much ;-- and the present refreshment , therefore , with such feelings of content as she brought to it , was particularly welcome .
Mrs . Jennings would have persuaded her , at its conclusion , to take some rest before her mother ' s arrival , and allow HER to take her place by Marianne ; but Elinor had no sense of fatigue , no capability of sleep at that moment about her , and she was not to be kept away from her sister an unnecessary instant .
Mrs . Jennings therefore attending her up stairs into the sick chamber , to satisfy herself that all continued right , left her there again to her charge and her thoughts , and retired to her own room to write letters and sleep .
The night was cold and stormy .
The wind roared round the house , and the rain beat against the windows ; but Elinor , all happiness within , regarded it not .
Marianne slept through every blast ; and the travellers -- they had a rich reward in store , for every present inconvenience .
The clock struck eight .
Had it been ten , Elinor would have been convinced that at that moment she heard a carriage driving up to the house ; and so strong was the persuasion that she DID , in spite of the ALMOST impossibility of their being already come , that she moved into the adjoining dressing - closet and opened a window shutter , to be satisfied of the truth .
She instantly saw that her ears had not deceived her .
The flaring lamps of a carriage were immediately in view .
By their uncertain light she thought she could discern it to be drawn by four horses ; and this , while it told the excess of her poor mother ' s alarm , gave some explanation to such unexpected rapidity .
Never in her life had Elinor found it so difficult to be calm , as at that moment .
The knowledge of what her mother must be feeling as the carriage stopt at the door -- of her doubt -- her dread -- perhaps her despair !-- and of what SHE had to tell !-- with such knowledge it was impossible to be calm .
All that remained to be done was to be speedy ; and , therefore staying only till she could leave Mrs . Jennings ' s maid with her sister , she hurried down stairs .
The bustle in the vestibule , as she passed along an inner lobby , assured her that they were already in the house .
She rushed to the drawing - room ,-- she entered it ,-- and saw only Willoughby .
CHAPTER 44
Elinor , starting back with a look of horror at the sight of him , obeyed the first impulse of her heart in turning instantly to quit the room , and her hand was already on the lock , when its action was suspended by his hastily advancing , and saying , in a voice rather of command than supplication ,
" Miss Dashwood , for half an hour -- for ten minutes -- I entreat you to stay ."
" No , sir ," she replied with firmness , " I shall NOT stay .
Your business cannot be with ME .
The servants , I suppose , forgot to tell you that Mr . Palmer was not in the house ."
" Had they told me ," he cried with vehemence , " that Mr . Palmer and all his relations were at the devil , it would not have turned me from the door .
My business is with you , and only you ."
" With me !"
-- in the utmost amazement --" well , sir ,-- be quick -- and if you can -- less violent ."
" Sit down , and I will be both ."
She hesitated ; she knew not what to do .
The possibility of Colonel Brandon ' s arriving and finding her there , came across her .
But she had promised to hear him , and her curiosity no less than her honor was engaged .
After a moment ' s recollection , therefore , concluding that prudence required dispatch , and that her acquiescence would best promote it , she walked silently towards the table , and sat down .
He took the opposite chair , and for half a minute not a word was said by either .
" Pray be quick , sir ,"-- said Elinor , impatiently ;-- " I have no time to spare ."
He was sitting in an attitude of deep meditation , and seemed not to hear her .
" Your sister ," said he , with abruptness , a moment afterwards --" is out of danger .
I heard it from the servant .
God be praised !-- But is it true ?
is it really true ?"
Elinor would not speak .
He repeated the inquiry with yet greater eagerness .
" For God ' s sake tell me , is she out of danger , or is she not ?"
" We hope she is ."
He rose up , and walked across the room .
" Had I known as much half an hour ago -- But since I AM here ,"-- speaking with a forced vivacity as he returned to his seat --" what does it signify ?-- For once , Miss Dashwood -- it will be the last time , perhaps -- let us be cheerful together .-- I am in a fine mood for gaiety .-- Tell me honestly "-- a deeper glow overspreading his cheeks -- " do you think me most a knave or a fool ?"
Elinor looked at him with greater astonishment than ever .
She began to think that be must be in liquor ;-- the strangeness of such a visit , and of such manners , seemed no otherwise intelligible ; and with this impression she immediately rose , saying ,
" Mr . Willoughby , I advise you at present to return to Combe -- I am not at leisure to remain with you longer .-- Whatever your business may be with me , will it be better recollected and explained to - morrow ."
" I understand you ," he replied , with an expressive smile , and a voice perfectly calm ; " yes , I am very drunk .-- A pint of porter with my cold beef at Marlborough was enough to over - set me ."
" At Marlborough !"
-- cried Elinor , more and more at a loss to understand what he would be at .
" Yes ,-- I left London this morning at eight o ' clock , and the only ten minutes I have spent out of my chaise since that time procured me a nuncheon at Marlborough ."
The steadiness of his manner , and the intelligence of his eye as he spoke , convincing Elinor , that whatever other unpardonable folly might bring him to Cleveland , he was not brought there by intoxication , she said , after a moment ' s recollection ,
" Mr . Willoughby , you OUGHT to feel , and I certainly DO -- that after what has passed -- your coming here in this manner , and forcing yourself upon my notice , requires a very particular excuse .-- What is it , that you mean by it ?"
--
" I mean ,"-- said he , with serious energy --" if I can , to make you hate me one degree less than you do NOW .
I mean to offer some kind of explanation , some kind of apology , for the past ; to open my whole heart to you , and by convincing you , that though I have been always a blockhead , I have not been always a rascal , to obtain something like forgiveness from Ma -- from your sister ."
" Is this the real reason of your coming ?"
" Upon my soul it is ,"-- was his answer , with a warmth which brought all the former Willoughby to her remembrance , and in spite of herself made her think him sincere .
" If that is all , you may be satisfied already ,-- for Marianne DOES -- she has LONG forgiven you ."
" Has she ?"
-- he cried , in the same eager tone .-- " Then she has forgiven me before she ought to have done it .
But she shall forgive me again , and on more reasonable grounds .-- NOW will you listen to me ?"
Elinor bowed her assent .
" I do not know ," said he , after a pause of expectation on her side , and thoughtfulness on his own ,--" how YOU may have accounted for my behaviour to your sister , or what diabolical motive you may have imputed to me .-- Perhaps you will hardly think the better of me ,-- it is worth the trial however , and you shall hear every thing .
When I first became intimate in your family , I had no other intention , no other view in the acquaintance than to pass my time pleasantly while I was obliged to remain in Devonshire , more pleasantly than I had ever done before .
Your sister ' s lovely person and interesting manners could not but please me ; and her behaviour to me almost from the first , was of a kind -- It is astonishing , when I reflect on what it was , and what SHE was , that my heart should have been so insensible !
But at first I must confess , my vanity only was elevated by it .
Careless of her happiness , thinking only of my own amusement , giving way to feelings which I had always been too much in the habit of indulging , I endeavoured , by every means in my power , to make myself pleasing to her , without any design of returning her affection ."
Miss Dashwood , at this point , turning her eyes on him with the most angry contempt , stopped him , by saying ,
" It is hardly worth while , Mr . Willoughby , for you to relate , or for me to listen any longer .
Such a beginning as this cannot be followed by any thing .-- Do not let me be pained by hearing any thing more on the subject ."
" I insist on you hearing the whole of it ," he replied , " My fortune was never large , and I had always been expensive , always in the habit of associating with people of better income than myself .
Every year since my coming of age , or even before , I believe , had added to my debts ; and though the death of my old cousin , Mrs . Smith , was to set me free ; yet that event being uncertain , and possibly far distant , it had been for some time my intention to re - establish my circumstances by marrying a woman of fortune .
To attach myself to your sister , therefore , was not a thing to be thought of ;-- and with a meanness , selfishness , cruelty -- which no indignant , no contemptuous look , even of yours , Miss Dashwood , can ever reprobate too much -- I was acting in this manner , trying to engage her regard , without a thought of returning it .-- But one thing may be said for me : even in that horrid state of selfish vanity , I did not know the extent of the injury I meditated , because I did not THEN know what it was to love .
But have I ever known it ?-- Well may it be doubted ; for , had I really loved , could I have sacrificed my feelings to vanity , to avarice ?-- or , what is more , could I have sacrificed hers ?-- But I have done it .
To avoid a comparative poverty , which her affection and her society would have deprived of all its horrors , I have , by raising myself to affluence , lost every thing that could make it a blessing ."
" You did then ," said Elinor , a little softened , " believe yourself at one time attached to her ?"
" To have resisted such attractions , to have withstood such tenderness !-- Is there a man on earth who could have done it ?-- Yes , I found myself , by insensible degrees , sincerely fond of her ; and the happiest hours of my life were what I spent with her when I felt my intentions were strictly honourable , and my feelings blameless .
Even THEN , however , when fully determined on paying my addresses to her , I allowed myself most improperly to put off , from day to day , the moment of doing it , from an unwillingness to enter into an engagement while my circumstances were so greatly embarrassed .
I will not reason here -- nor will I stop for YOU to expatiate on the absurdity , and the worse than absurdity , of scrupling to engage my faith where my honour was already bound .
The event has proved , that I was a cunning fool , providing with great circumspection for a possible opportunity of making myself contemptible and wretched for ever .
At last , however , my resolution was taken , and I had determined , as soon as I could engage her alone , to justify the attentions I had so invariably paid her , and openly assure her of an affection which I had already taken such pains to display .
But in the interim -- in the interim of the very few hours that were to pass , before I could have an opportunity of speaking with her in private -- a circumstance occurred -- an unlucky circumstance , to ruin all my resolution , and with it all my comfort .
A discovery took place ,"-- here he hesitated and looked down .--" Mrs .
Smith had somehow or other been informed , I imagine by some distant relation , whose interest it was to deprive me of her favour , of an affair , a connection -- but I need not explain myself farther ," he added , looking at her with an heightened colour and an enquiring eye --" your particular intimacy -- you have probably heard the whole story long ago ."
" I have ," returned Elinor , colouring likewise , and hardening her heart anew against any compassion for him , " I have heard it all .
And how you will explain away any part of your guilt in that dreadful business , I confess is beyond my comprehension ."
" Remember ," cried Willoughby , " from whom you received the account .
Could it be an impartial one ?
I acknowledge that her situation and her character ought to have been respected by me .
I do not mean to justify myself , but at the same time cannot leave you to suppose that I have nothing to urge -- that because she was injured she was irreproachable , and because I was a libertine , SHE must be a saint .
If the violence of her passions , the weakness of her understanding -- I do not mean , however , to defend myself .
Her affection for me deserved better treatment , and I often , with great self - reproach , recall the tenderness which , for a very short time , had the power of creating any return .
I wish -- I heartily wish it had never been .
But I have injured more than herself ; and I have injured one , whose affection for me --( may I say it ?)
was scarcely less warm than hers ; and whose mind -- Oh !
how infinitely superior !"
--
" Your indifference , however , towards that unfortunate girl -- I must say it , unpleasant to me as the discussion of such a subject may well be -- your indifference is no apology for your cruel neglect of her .
Do not think yourself excused by any weakness , any natural defect of understanding on her side , in the wanton cruelty so evident on yours .
You must have known , that while you were enjoying yourself in Devonshire pursuing fresh schemes , always gay , always happy , she was reduced to the extremest indigence ."
" But , upon my soul , I did NOT know it ," he warmly replied ; " I did not recollect that I had omitted to give her my direction ; and common sense might have told her how to find it out ."
" Well , sir , and what said Mrs .
Smith ?"
" She taxed me with the offence at once , and my confusion may be guessed .
The purity of her life , the formality of her notions , her ignorance of the world -- every thing was against me .
The matter itself I could not deny , and vain was every endeavour to soften it .
She was previously disposed , I believe , to doubt the morality of my conduct in general , and was moreover discontented with the very little attention , the very little portion of my time that I had bestowed on her , in my present visit .
In short , it ended in a total breach .
By one measure I might have saved myself .
In the height of her morality , good woman !
she offered to forgive the past , if I would marry Eliza .
That could not be -- and I was formally dismissed from her favour and her house .
The night following this affair -- I was to go the next morning -- was spent by me in deliberating on what my future conduct should be .
The struggle was great -- but it ended too soon .
My affection for Marianne , my thorough conviction of her attachment to me -- it was all insufficient to outweigh that dread of poverty , or get the better of those false ideas of the necessity of riches , which I was naturally inclined to feel , and expensive society had increased .
I had reason to believe myself secure of my present wife , if I chose to address her , and I persuaded myself to think that nothing else in common prudence remained for me to do .
A heavy scene however awaited me , before I could leave Devonshire ;-- I was engaged to dine with you on that very day ; some apology was therefore necessary for my breaking this engagement .
But whether I should write this apology , or deliver it in person , was a point of long debate .
To see Marianne , I felt , would be dreadful , and I even doubted whether I could see her again , and keep to my resolution .
In that point , however , I undervalued my own magnanimity , as the event declared ; for I went , I saw her , and saw her miserable , and left her miserable -- and left her hoping never to see her again ."
" Why did you call , Mr .
Willoughby ?"
said Elinor , reproachfully ; " a note would have answered every purpose .-- Why was it necessary to call ?"
" It was necessary to my own pride .
I could not bear to leave the country in a manner that might lead you , or the rest of the neighbourhood , to suspect any part of what had really passed between Mrs . Smith and myself -- and I resolved therefore on calling at the cottage , in my way to Honiton .
The sight of your dear sister , however , was really dreadful ; and , to heighten the matter , I found her alone .
You were all gone I do not know where .
I had left her only the evening before , so fully , so firmly resolved within my self on doing right !
A few hours were to have engaged her to me for ever ; and I remember how happy , how gay were my spirits , as I walked from the cottage to Allenham , satisfied with myself , delighted with every body !
But in this , our last interview of friendship , I approached her with a sense of guilt that almost took from me the power of dissembling .
Her sorrow , her disappointment , her deep regret , when I told her that I was obliged to leave Devonshire so immediately -- I never shall forget it -- united too with such reliance , such confidence in me !-- Oh , God !-- what a hard - hearted rascal I was !"
They were both silent for a few moments .
Elinor first spoke .
" Did you tell her that you should soon return ?"
" I do not know what I told her ," he replied , impatiently ; " less than was due to the past , beyond a doubt , and in all likelihood much more than was justified by the future .
I cannot think of it .-- It won ' t do .-- Then came your dear mother to torture me farther , with all her kindness and confidence .
Thank Heaven !
it DID torture me .
I was miserable .
Miss Dashwood , you cannot have an idea of the comfort it gives me to look back on my own misery .
I owe such a grudge to myself for the stupid , rascally folly of my own heart , that all my past sufferings under it are only triumph and exultation to me now .
Well , I went , left all that I loved , and went to those to whom , at best , I was only indifferent .
My journey to town -- travelling with my own horses , and therefore so tediously -- no creature to speak to -- my own reflections so cheerful -- when I looked forward every thing so inviting !-- when I looked back at Barton , the picture so soothing !-- oh , it was a blessed journey !"
He stopped .
" Well , sir ," said Elinor , who , though pitying him , grew impatient for his departure , " and this is all ?"
" Ah !-- no ,-- have you forgot what passed in town ?-- That infamous letter -- Did she shew it you ?"
" Yes , I saw every note that passed ."
" When the first of hers reached me ( as it immediately did , for I was in town the whole time ,) what I felt is -- in the common phrase , not to be expressed ; in a more simple one -- perhaps too simple to raise any emotion -- my feelings were very , very painful .-- Every line , every word was -- in the hackneyed metaphor which their dear writer , were she here , would forbid -- a dagger to my heart .
To know that Marianne was in town was -- in the same language -- a thunderbolt .-- Thunderbolts and daggers !-- what a reproof would she have given me !-- her taste , her opinions -- I believe they are better known to me than my own ,-- and I am sure they are dearer ."
Elinor ' s heart , which had undergone many changes in the course of this extraordinary conversation , was now softened again ;-- yet she felt it her duty to check such ideas in her companion as the last .
" This is not right , Mr .
Willoughby .-- Remember that you are married .
Relate only what in your conscience you think necessary for me to hear ."
" Marianne ' s note , by assuring me that I was still as dear to her as in former days , that in spite of the many , many weeks we had been separated , she was as constant in her own feelings , and as full of faith in the constancy of mine as ever , awakened all my remorse .
I say awakened , because time and London , business and dissipation , had in some measure quieted it , and I had been growing a fine hardened villain , fancying myself indifferent to her , and chusing to fancy that she too must have become indifferent to me ; talking to myself of our past attachment as a mere idle , trifling business , shrugging up my shoulders in proof of its being so , and silencing every reproach , overcoming every scruple , by secretly saying now and then , ' I shall be heartily glad to hear she is well married .'
-- But this note made me know myself better .
I felt that she was infinitely dearer to me than any other woman in the world , and that I was using her infamously .
But every thing was then just settled between Miss Grey and me .
To retreat was impossible .
All that I had to do , was to avoid you both .
I sent no answer to Marianne , intending by that to preserve myself from her farther notice ; and for some time I was even determined not to call in Berkeley Street ;-- but at last , judging it wiser to affect the air of a cool , common acquaintance than anything else , I watched you all safely out of the house one morning , and left my name ."
" Watched us out of the house !"
" Even so .
You would be surprised to hear how often I watched you , how often I was on the point of falling in with you .
I have entered many a shop to avoid your sight , as the carriage drove by .
Lodging as I did in Bond Street , there was hardly a day in which I did not catch a glimpse of one or other of you ; and nothing but the most constant watchfulness on my side , a most invariably prevailing desire to keep out of your sight , could have separated us so long .
I avoided the Middletons as much as possible , as well as everybody else who was likely to prove an acquaintance in common .
Not aware of their being in town , however , I blundered on Sir John , I believe , the first day of his coming , and the day after I had called at Mrs . Jennings ' s .
He asked me to a party , a dance at his house in the evening .-- Had he NOT told me as an inducement that you and your sister were to be there , I should have felt it too certain a thing , to trust myself near him .
The next morning brought another short note from Marianne -- still affectionate , open , artless , confiding -- everything that could make MY conduct most hateful .
I could not answer it .
I tried -- but could not frame a sentence .
But I thought of her , I believe , every moment of the day .
If you CAN pity me , Miss Dashwood , pity my situation as it was THEN .
With my head and heart full of your sister , I was forced to play the happy lover to another woman !-- Those three or four weeks were worse than all .
Well , at last , as I need not tell you , you were forced on me ; and what a sweet figure I cut !-- what an evening of agony it was !-- Marianne , beautiful as an angel on one side , calling me Willoughby in such a tone !-- Oh , God !-- holding out her hand to me , asking me for an explanation , with those bewitching eyes fixed in such speaking solicitude on my face !-- and Sophia , jealous as the devil on the other hand , looking all that was -- Well , it does not signify ; it is over now .-- Such an evening !-- I ran away from you all as soon as I could ; but not before I had seen Marianne ' s sweet face as white as death .-- THAT was the last , last look I ever had of her ;-- the last manner in which she appeared to me .
It was a horrid sight !-- yet when I thought of her to - day as really dying , it was a kind of comfort to me to imagine that I knew exactly how she would appear to those , who saw her last in this world .
She was before me , constantly before me , as I travelled , in the same look and hue ."
A short pause of mutual thoughtfulness succeeded .
Willoughby first rousing himself , broke it thus :
" Well , let me make haste and be gone .
Your sister is certainly better , certainly out of danger ?"
" We are assured of it ."
" Your poor mother , too !-- doting on Marianne ."
" But the letter , Mr . Willoughby , your own letter ; have you any thing to say about that ?"
" Yes , yes , THAT in particular .
Your sister wrote to me again , you know , the very next morning .
You saw what she said .
I was breakfasting at the Ellisons ,-- and her letter , with some others , was brought to me there from my lodgings .
It happened to catch Sophia ' s eye before it caught mine -- and its size , the elegance of the paper , the hand - writing altogether , immediately gave her a suspicion .
Some vague report had reached her before of my attachment to some young lady in Devonshire , and what had passed within her observation the preceding evening had marked who the young lady was , and made her more jealous than ever .
Affecting that air of playfulness , therefore , which is delightful in a woman one loves , she opened the letter directly , and read its contents .
She was well paid for her impudence .
She read what made her wretched .
Her wretchedness I could have borne , but her passion -- her malice -- At all events it must be appeased .
And , in short -- what do you think of my wife ' s style of letter - writing ?-- delicate -- tender -- truly feminine -- was it not ?"
" Your wife !-- The letter was in your own hand - writing ."
" Yes , but I had only the credit of servilely copying such sentences as I was ashamed to put my name to .
The original was all her own -- her own happy thoughts and gentle diction .
But what could I do !-- we were engaged , every thing in preparation , the day almost fixed -- But I am talking like a fool .
Preparation !-- day !-- In honest words , her money was necessary to me , and in a situation like mine , any thing was to be done to prevent a rupture .
And after all , what did it signify to my character in the opinion of Marianne and her friends , in what language my answer was couched ?-- It must have been only to one end .
My business was to declare myself a scoundrel , and whether I did it with a bow or a bluster was of little importance .-- ' I am ruined for ever in their opinion --' said I to myself --' I am shut out for ever from their society , they already think me an unprincipled fellow , this letter will only make them think me a blackguard one .'
Such were my reasonings , as , in a sort of desperate carelessness , I copied my wife ' s words , and parted with the last relics of Marianne .
Her three notes -- unluckily they were all in my pocketbook , or I should have denied their existence , and hoarded them for ever -- I was forced to put them up , and could not even kiss them .
And the lock of hair -- that too I had always carried about me in the same pocket - book , which was now searched by Madam with the most ingratiating virulence ,-- the dear lock -- all , every memento was torn from me ."
" You are very wrong , Mr . Willoughby , very blamable ," said Elinor , while her voice , in spite of herself , betrayed her compassionate emotion ; " you ought not to speak in this way , either of Mrs . Willoughby or my sister .
You had made your own choice .
It was not forced on you .
Your wife has a claim to your politeness , to your respect , at least .
She must be attached to you , or she would not have married you .
To treat her with unkindness , to speak of her slightingly is no atonement to Marianne -- nor can I suppose it a relief to your own conscience ."
" Do not talk to me of my wife ," said he with a heavy sigh .-- " She does not deserve your compassion .-- She knew I had no regard for her when we married .-- Well , married we were , and came down to Combe Magna to be happy , and afterwards returned to town to be gay .-- And now do you pity me , Miss Dashwood ?-- or have I said all this to no purpose ?-- Am I -- be it only one degree -- am I less guilty in your opinion than I was before ?-- My intentions were not always wrong .
Have I explained away any part of my guilt ?"
" Yes , you have certainly removed something -- a little .-- You have proved yourself , on the whole , less faulty than I had believed you .
You have proved your heart less wicked , much less wicked .
But I hardly know -- the misery that you have inflicted -- I hardly know what could have made it worse ."
" Will you repeat to your sister when she is recovered , what I have been telling you ?-- Let me be a little lightened too in her opinion as well as in yours .
You tell me that she has forgiven me already .
Let me be able to fancy that a better knowledge of my heart , and of my present feelings , will draw from her a more spontaneous , more natural , more gentle , less dignified , forgiveness .
Tell her of my misery and my penitence -- tell her that my heart was never inconstant to her , and if you will , that at this moment she is dearer to me than ever ."
" I will tell her all that is necessary to what may comparatively be called , your justification .
But you have not explained to me the particular reason of your coming now , nor how you heard of her illness ."
" Last night , in Drury Lane lobby , I ran against Sir John Middleton , and when he saw who I was -- for the first time these two months -- he spoke to me .-- That he had cut me ever since my marriage , I had seen without surprise or resentment .
Now , however , his good - natured , honest , stupid soul , full of indignation against me , and concern for your sister , could not resist the temptation of telling me what he knew ought to -- though probably he did not think it WOULD -- vex me horridly .
As bluntly as he could speak it , therefore , he told me that Marianne Dashwood was dying of a putrid fever at Cleveland -- a letter that morning received from Mrs . Jennings declared her danger most imminent -- the Palmers are all gone off in a fright , & c .-- I was too much shocked to be able to pass myself off as insensible even to the undiscerning Sir John .
His heart was softened in seeing mine suffer ; and so much of his ill - will was done away , that when we parted , he almost shook me by the hand while he reminded me of an old promise about a pointer puppy .
What I felt on hearing that your sister was dying -- and dying too , believing me the greatest villain upon earth , scorning , hating me in her latest moments -- for how could I tell what horrid projects might not have been imputed ?
ONE person I was sure would represent me as capable of any thing -- What I felt was dreadful !-- My resolution was soon made , and at eight o ' clock this morning I was in my carriage .
Now you know all ."
Elinor made no answer .
Her thoughts were silently fixed on the irreparable injury which too early an independence and its consequent habits of idleness , dissipation , and luxury , had made in the mind , the character , the happiness , of a man who , to every advantage of person and talents , united a disposition naturally open and honest , and a feeling , affectionate temper .
The world had made him extravagant and vain -- Extravagance and vanity had made him cold - hearted and selfish .
Vanity , while seeking its own guilty triumph at the expense of another , had involved him in a real attachment , which extravagance , or at least its offspring , necessity , had required to be sacrificed .
Each faulty propensity in leading him to evil , had led him likewise to punishment .
The attachment , from which against honour , against feeling , against every better interest he had outwardly torn himself , now , when no longer allowable , governed every thought ; and the connection , for the sake of which he had , with little scruple , left her sister to misery , was likely to prove a source of unhappiness to himself of a far more incurable nature .
From a reverie of this kind she was recalled at the end of some minutes by Willoughby , who , rousing himself from a reverie at least equally painful , started up in preparation for going , and said --
" There is no use in staying here ; I must be off ."
" Are you going back to town ?"
" No -- to Combe Magna .
I have business there ; from thence to town in a day or two .
Good bye ."
He held out his hand .
She could not refuse to give him hers ' s ;-- he pressed it with affection .
" And you DO think something better of me than you did ?"
-- said he , letting it fall , and leaning against the mantel - piece as if forgetting he was to go .
Elinor assured him that she did ;-- that she forgave , pitied , wished him well -- was even interested in his happiness -- and added some gentle counsel as to the behaviour most likely to promote it .
His answer was not very encouraging .
" As to that ," said he , " I must rub through the world as well as I can .
Domestic happiness is out of the question .
If , however , I am allowed to think that you and yours feel an interest in my fate and actions , it may be the means -- it may put me on my guard -- at least , it may be something to live for .
Marianne to be sure is lost to me for ever .
Were I even by any blessed chance at liberty again --"
Elinor stopped him with a reproof .
" Well ,"-- he replied --" once more good bye .
I shall now go away and live in dread of one event ."
" What do you mean ?"
" Your sister ' s marriage ."
" You are very wrong .
She can never be more lost to you than she is now ."
" But she will be gained by some one else .
And if that some one should be the very he whom , of all others , I could least bear -- but I will not stay to rob myself of all your compassionate goodwill , by shewing that where I have most injured I can least forgive .
Good bye ,-- God bless you !"
And with these words , he almost ran out of the room .
CHAPTER 45
Elinor , for some time after he left her , for some time even after the sound of his carriage had died away , remained too much oppressed by a crowd of ideas , widely differing in themselves , but of which sadness was the general result , to think even of her sister .
Willoughby , he , whom only half an hour ago she had abhorred as the most worthless of men , Willoughby , in spite of all his faults , excited a degree of commiseration for the sufferings produced by them , which made her think of him as now separated for ever from her family , with a tenderness , a regret , rather in proportion , as she soon acknowledged within herself -- to his wishes than to his merits .
She felt that his influence over her mind was heightened by circumstances which ought not in reason to have weight ; by that person of uncommon attraction , that open , affectionate , and lively manner which it was no merit to possess ; and by that still ardent love for Marianne , which it was not even innocent to indulge .
But she felt that it was so , long , long before she could feel his influence less .
When at last she returned to the unconscious Marianne , she found her just awaking , refreshed by so long and sweet a sleep to the extent of her hopes .
Elinor ' s heart was full .
The past , the present , the future , Willoughby ' s visit , Marianne ' s safety , and her mother ' s expected arrival , threw her altogether into an agitation of spirits which kept off every indication of fatigue , and made her only fearful of betraying herself to her sister .
Short was the time , however , in which that fear could affect her , for within half an hour after Willoughby ' s leaving the house , she was again called down stairs by the sound of another carriage .-- Eager to save her mother from every unnecessary moment ' s horrible suspense , she ran immediately into the hall , and reached the outward door just in time to receive and support her as she entered it .
Mrs . Dashwood , whose terror as they drew near the house had produced almost the conviction of Marianne ' s being no more , had no voice to inquire after her , no voice even for Elinor ; but SHE , waiting neither for salutation nor inquiry , instantly gave the joyful relief ;-- and her mother , catching it with all her usual warmth , was in a moment as much overcome by her happiness , as she had been before by her fears .
She was supported into the drawing - room between her daughter and her friend ;-- and there , shedding tears of joy , though still unable to speak , embraced Elinor again and again , turning from her at intervals to press Colonel Brandon ' s hand , with a look which spoke at once her gratitude , and her conviction of his sharing with herself in the bliss of the moment .
He shared it , however , in a silence even greater than her own .
As soon as Mrs . Dashwood had recovered herself , to see Marianne was her first desire ; and in two minutes she was with her beloved child , rendered dearer to her than ever by absence , unhappiness , and danger .
Elinor ' s delight , as she saw what each felt in the meeting , was only checked by an apprehension of its robbing Marianne of farther sleep ;-- but Mrs . Dashwood could be calm , could be even prudent , when the life of a child was at stake , and Marianne , satisfied in knowing her mother was near her , and conscious of being too weak for conversation , submitted readily to the silence and quiet prescribed by every nurse around her .
Mrs . Dashwood WOULD sit up with her all night ; and Elinor , in compliance with her mother ' s entreaty , went to bed .
But the rest , which one night entirely sleepless , and many hours of the most wearing anxiety seemed to make requisite , was kept off by irritation of spirits .
Willoughby , " poor Willoughby ," as she now allowed herself to call him , was constantly in her thoughts ; she would not but have heard his vindication for the world , and now blamed , now acquitted herself for having judged him so harshly before .
But her promise of relating it to her sister was invariably painful .
She dreaded the performance of it , dreaded what its effect on Marianne might be ; doubted whether after such an explanation she could ever be happy with another ; and for a moment wished Willoughby a widower .
Then , remembering Colonel Brandon , reproved herself , felt that to HIS sufferings and his constancy far more than to his rival ' s , the reward of her sister was due , and wished any thing rather than Mrs . Willoughby ' s death .
The shock of Colonel Brandon ' s errand at Barton had been much softened to Mrs . Dashwood by her own previous alarm ; for so great was her uneasiness about Marianne , that she had already determined to set out for Cleveland on that very day , without waiting for any further intelligence , and had so far settled her journey before his arrival , that the Careys were then expected every moment to fetch Margaret away , as her mother was unwilling to take her where there might be infection .
Marianne continued to mend every day , and the brilliant cheerfulness of Mrs . Dashwood ' s looks and spirits proved her to be , as she repeatedly declared herself , one of the happiest women in the world .
Elinor could not hear the declaration , nor witness its proofs without sometimes wondering whether her mother ever recollected Edward .
But Mrs . Dashwood , trusting to the temperate account of her own disappointment which Elinor had sent her , was led away by the exuberance of her joy to think only of what would increase it .
Marianne was restored to her from a danger in which , as she now began to feel , her own mistaken judgment in encouraging the unfortunate attachment to Willoughby , had contributed to place her ;-- and in her recovery she had yet another source of joy unthought of by Elinor .
It was thus imparted to her , as soon as any opportunity of private conference between them occurred .
" At last we are alone .
My Elinor , you do not yet know all my happiness .
Colonel Brandon loves Marianne .
He has told me so himself ."
Her daughter , feeling by turns both pleased and pained , surprised and not surprised , was all silent attention .
" You are never like me , dear Elinor , or I should wonder at your composure now .
Had I sat down to wish for any possible good to my family , I should have fixed on Colonel Brandon ' s marrying one of you as the object most desirable .
And I believe Marianne will be the most happy with him of the two ."
Elinor was half inclined to ask her reason for thinking so , because satisfied that none founded on an impartial consideration of their age , characters , or feelings , could be given ;-- but her mother must always be carried away by her imagination on any interesting subject , and therefore instead of an inquiry , she passed it off with a smile .
" He opened his whole heart to me yesterday as we travelled .
It came out quite unawares , quite undesignedly .
I , you may well believe , could talk of nothing but my child ;-- he could not conceal his distress ; I saw that it equalled my own , and he perhaps , thinking that mere friendship , as the world now goes , would not justify so warm a sympathy -- or rather , not thinking at all , I suppose -- giving way to irresistible feelings , made me acquainted with his earnest , tender , constant , affection for Marianne .
He has loved her , my Elinor , ever since the first moment of seeing her ."
Here , however , Elinor perceived ,-- not the language , not the professions of Colonel Brandon , but the natural embellishments of her mother ' s active fancy , which fashioned every thing delightful to her as it chose .
" His regard for her , infinitely surpassing anything that Willoughby ever felt or feigned , as much more warm , as more sincere or constant -- which ever we are to call it -- has subsisted through all the knowledge of dear Marianne ' s unhappy prepossession for that worthless young man !-- and without selfishness -- without encouraging a hope !-- could he have seen her happy with another -- Such a noble mind !-- such openness , such sincerity !-- no one can be deceived in HIM ."
" Colonel Brandon ' s character ," said Elinor , " as an excellent man , is well established ."
" I know it is "-- replied her mother seriously , " or after such a warning , I should be the last to encourage such affection , or even to be pleased by it .
But his coming for me as he did , with such active , such ready friendship , is enough to prove him one of the worthiest of men ."
" His character , however ," answered Elinor , " does not rest on ONE act of kindness , to which his affection for Marianne , were humanity out of the case , would have prompted him .
To Mrs . Jennings , to the Middletons , he has been long and intimately known ; they equally love and respect him ; and even my own knowledge of him , though lately acquired , is very considerable ; and so highly do I value and esteem him , that if Marianne can be happy with him , I shall be as ready as yourself to think our connection the greatest blessing to us in the world .
What answer did you give him ?-- Did you allow him to hope ?"
" Oh !
my love , I could not then talk of hope to him or to myself .
Marianne might at that moment be dying .
But he did not ask for hope or encouragement .
His was an involuntary confidence , an irrepressible effusion to a soothing friend -- not an application to a parent .
Yet after a time I DID say , for at first I was quite overcome -- that if she lived , as I trusted she might , my greatest happiness would lie in promoting their marriage ; and since our arrival , since our delightful security , I have repeated it to him more fully , have given him every encouragement in my power .
Time , a very little time , I tell him , will do everything ;-- Marianne ' s heart is not to be wasted for ever on such a man as Willoughby .-- His own merits must soon secure it ."
" To judge from the Colonel ' s spirits , however , you have not yet made him equally sanguine ."
" No .-- He thinks Marianne ' s affection too deeply rooted for any change in it under a great length of time , and even supposing her heart again free , is too diffident of himself to believe , that with such a difference of age and disposition he could ever attach her .
There , however , he is quite mistaken .
His age is only so much beyond hers as to be an advantage , as to make his character and principles fixed ;-- and his disposition , I am well convinced , is exactly the very one to make your sister happy .
And his person , his manners too , are all in his favour .
My partiality does not blind me ; he certainly is not so handsome as Willoughby -- but at the same time , there is something much more pleasing in his countenance .-- There was always a something ,-- if you remember ,-- in Willoughby ' s eyes at times , which I did not like ."
Elinor could NOT remember it ;-- but her mother , without waiting for her assent , continued ,
" And his manners , the Colonel ' s manners are not only more pleasing to me than Willoughby ' s ever were , but they are of a kind I well know to be more solidly attaching to Marianne .
Their gentleness , their genuine attention to other people , and their manly unstudied simplicity is much more accordant with her real disposition , than the liveliness -- often artificial , and often ill - timed of the other .
I am very sure myself , that had Willoughby turned out as really amiable , as he has proved himself the contrary , Marianne would yet never have been so happy with HIM , as she will be with Colonel Brandon ."
She paused .-- Her daughter could not quite agree with her , but her dissent was not heard , and therefore gave no offence .
" At Delaford , she will be within an easy distance of me ," added Mrs . Dashwood , " even if I remain at Barton ; and in all probability ,-- for I hear it is a large village ,-- indeed there certainly MUST be some small house or cottage close by , that would suit us quite as well as our present situation ."
Poor Elinor !-- here was a new scheme for getting her to Delaford !-- but her spirit was stubborn .
" His fortune too !-- for at my time of life you know , everybody cares about THAT ;-- and though I neither know nor desire to know , what it really is , I am sure it must be a good one ."
Here they were interrupted by the entrance of a third person , and Elinor withdrew to think it all over in private , to wish success to her friend , and yet in wishing it , to feel a pang for Willoughby .
CHAPTER 46
Marianne ' s illness , though weakening in its kind , had not been long enough to make her recovery slow ; and with youth , natural strength , and her mother ' s presence in aid , it proceeded so smoothly as to enable her to remove , within four days after the arrival of the latter , into Mrs . Palmer ' s dressing - room .
When there , at her own particular request , for she was impatient to pour forth her thanks to him for fetching her mother , Colonel Brandon was invited to visit her .
His emotion on entering the room , in seeing her altered looks , and in receiving the pale hand which she immediately held out to him , was such , as , in Elinor ' s conjecture , must arise from something more than his affection for Marianne , or the consciousness of its being known to others ; and she soon discovered in his melancholy eye and varying complexion as he looked at her sister , the probable recurrence of many past scenes of misery to his mind , brought back by that resemblance between Marianne and Eliza already acknowledged , and now strengthened by the hollow eye , the sickly skin , the posture of reclining weakness , and the warm acknowledgment of peculiar obligation .
Mrs . Dashwood , not less watchful of what passed than her daughter , but with a mind very differently influenced , and therefore watching to very different effect , saw nothing in the Colonel ' s behaviour but what arose from the most simple and self - evident sensations , while in the actions and words of Marianne she persuaded herself to think that something more than gratitude already dawned .
At the end of another day or two , Marianne growing visibly stronger every twelve hours , Mrs . Dashwood , urged equally by her own and her daughter ' s wishes , began to talk of removing to Barton .
On HER measures depended those of her two friends ; Mrs . Jennings could not quit Cleveland during the Dashwoods ' stay ; and Colonel Brandon was soon brought , by their united request , to consider his own abode there as equally determinate , if not equally indispensable .
At his and Mrs . Jennings ' s united request in return , Mrs . Dashwood was prevailed on to accept the use of his carriage on her journey back , for the better accommodation of her sick child ; and the Colonel , at the joint invitation of Mrs . Dashwood and Mrs . Jennings , whose active good - nature made her friendly and hospitable for other people as well as herself , engaged with pleasure to redeem it by a visit at the cottage , in the course of a few weeks .
The day of separation and departure arrived ; and Marianne , after taking so particular and lengthened a leave of Mrs . Jennings , one so earnestly grateful , so full of respect and kind wishes as seemed due to her own heart from a secret acknowledgment of past inattention , and bidding Colonel Brandon farewell with a cordiality of a friend , was carefully assisted by him into the carriage , of which he seemed anxious that she should engross at least half .
Mrs . Dashwood and Elinor then followed , and the others were left by themselves , to talk of the travellers , and feel their own dullness , till Mrs . Jennings was summoned to her chaise to take comfort in the gossip of her maid for the loss of her two young companions ; and Colonel Brandon immediately afterwards took his solitary way to Delaford .
The Dashwoods were two days on the road , and Marianne bore her journey on both , without essential fatigue .
Every thing that the most zealous affection , the most solicitous care could do to render her comfortable , was the office of each watchful companion , and each found their reward in her bodily ease , and her calmness of spirits .
To Elinor , the observation of the latter was particularly grateful .
She , who had seen her week after week so constantly suffering , oppressed by anguish of heart which she had neither courage to speak of , nor fortitude to conceal , now saw with a joy , which no other could equally share , an apparent composure of mind , which , in being the result as she trusted of serious reflection , must eventually lead her to contentment and cheerfulness .
As they approached Barton , indeed , and entered on scenes of which every field and every tree brought some peculiar , some painful recollection , she grew silent and thoughtful , and turning away her face from their notice , sat earnestly gazing through the window .
But here , Elinor could neither wonder nor blame ; and when she saw , as she assisted Marianne from the carriage , that she had been crying , she saw only an emotion too natural in itself to raise any thing less tender than pity , and in its unobtrusiveness entitled to praise .
In the whole of her subsequent manner , she traced the direction of a mind awakened to reasonable exertion ; for no sooner had they entered their common sitting - room , than Marianne turned her eyes around it with a look of resolute firmness , as if determined at once to accustom herself to the sight of every object with which the remembrance of Willoughby could be connected .-- She said little , but every sentence aimed at cheerfulness , and though a sigh sometimes escaped her , it never passed away without the atonement of a smile .
After dinner she would try her piano - forte .
She went to it ; but the music on which her eye first rested was an opera , procured for her by Willoughby , containing some of their favourite duets , and bearing on its outward leaf her own name in his hand - writing .-- That would not do .-- She shook her head , put the music aside , and after running over the keys for a minute , complained of feebleness in her fingers , and closed the instrument again ; declaring however with firmness as she did so , that she should in future practice much .
The next morning produced no abatement in these happy symptoms .
On the contrary , with a mind and body alike strengthened by rest , she looked and spoke with more genuine spirit , anticipating the pleasure of Margaret ' s return , and talking of the dear family party which would then be restored , of their mutual pursuits and cheerful society , as the only happiness worth a wish .
" When the weather is settled , and I have recovered my strength ," said she , " we will take long walks together every day .
We will walk to the farm at the edge of the down , and see how the children go on ; we will walk to Sir John ' s new plantations at Barton Cross , and the Abbeyland ; and we will often go the old ruins of the Priory , and try to trace its foundations as far as we are told they once reached .
I know we shall be happy .
I know the summer will pass happily away .
I mean never to be later in rising than six , and from that time till dinner I shall divide every moment between music and reading .
I have formed my plan , and am determined to enter on a course of serious study .
Our own library is too well known to me , to be resorted to for any thing beyond mere amusement .
But there are many works well worth reading at the Park ; and there are others of more modern production which I know I can borrow of Colonel Brandon .
By reading only six hours a - day , I shall gain in the course of a twelve - month a great deal of instruction which I now feel myself to want ."
Elinor honoured her for a plan which originated so nobly as this ; though smiling to see the same eager fancy which had been leading her to the extreme of languid indolence and selfish repining , now at work in introducing excess into a scheme of such rational employment and virtuous self - control .
Her smile however changed to a sigh when she remembered that promise to Willoughby was yet unfulfilled , and feared she had that to communicate which might again unsettle the mind of Marianne , and ruin at least for a time this fair prospect of busy tranquillity .
Willing therefore to delay the evil hour , she resolved to wait till her sister ' s health were more secure , before she appointed it .
But the resolution was made only to be broken .
Marianne had been two or three days at home , before the weather was fine enough for an invalid like herself to venture out .
But at last a soft , genial morning appeared ; such as might tempt the daughter ' s wishes and the mother ' s confidence ; and Marianne , leaning on Elinor ' s arm , was authorised to walk as long as she could without fatigue , in the lane before the house .
The sisters set out at a pace , slow as the feebleness of Marianne in an exercise hitherto untried since her illness required ;-- and they had advanced only so far beyond the house as to admit a full view of the hill , the important hill behind , when pausing with her eyes turned towards it , Marianne calmly said ,
" There , exactly there ,"-- pointing with one hand , " on that projecting mound ,-- there I fell ; and there I first saw Willoughby ."
Her voice sunk with the word , but presently reviving she added ,
" I am thankful to find that I can look with so little pain on the spot !-- shall we ever talk on that subject , Elinor ?"
-- hesitatingly it was said .--" Or will it be wrong ?-- I can talk of it now , I hope , as I ought to do ."
--
Elinor tenderly invited her to be open .
" As for regret ," said Marianne , " I have done with that , as far as HE is concerned .
I do not mean to talk to you of what my feelings have been for him , but what they are NOW .-- At present , if I could be satisfied on one point , if I could be allowed to think that he was not ALWAYS acting a part , not ALWAYS deceiving me ;-- but above all , if I could be assured that he never was so VERY wicked as my fears have sometimes fancied him , since the story of that unfortunate girl "--
She stopt .
Elinor joyfully treasured her words as she answered ,
" If you could be assured of that , you think you should be easy ."
" Yes .
My peace of mind is doubly involved in it ;-- for not only is it horrible to suspect a person , who has been what HE has been to ME , of such designs ,-- but what must it make me appear to myself ?-- What in a situation like mine , but a most shamefully unguarded affection could expose me to "--
" How then ," asked her sister , " would you account for his behaviour ?"
" I would suppose him ,-- Oh , how gladly would I suppose him , only fickle , very , very fickle ."
Elinor said no more .
She was debating within herself on the eligibility of beginning her story directly , or postponing it till Marianne were in stronger health ;-- and they crept on for a few minutes in silence .
" I am not wishing him too much good ," said Marianne at last with a sigh , " when I wish his secret reflections may be no more unpleasant than my own .
He will suffer enough in them ."
" Do you compare your conduct with his ?"
" No .
I compare it with what it ought to have been ; I compare it with yours ."
" Our situations have borne little resemblance ."
" They have borne more than our conduct .-- Do not , my dearest Elinor , let your kindness defend what I know your judgment must censure .
My illness has made me think -- It has given me leisure and calmness for serious recollection .
Long before I was enough recovered to talk , I was perfectly able to reflect .
I considered the past : I saw in my own behaviour , since the beginning of our acquaintance with him last autumn , nothing but a series of imprudence towards myself , and want of kindness to others .
I saw that my own feelings had prepared my sufferings , and that my want of fortitude under them had almost led me to the grave .
My illness , I well knew , had been entirely brought on by myself by such negligence of my own health , as I had felt even at the time to be wrong .
Had I died ,-- it would have been self - destruction .
I did not know my danger till the danger was removed ; but with such feelings as these reflections gave me , I wonder at my recovery ,-- wonder that the very eagerness of my desire to live , to have time for atonement to my God , and to you all , did not kill me at once .
Had I died ,-- in what peculiar misery should I have left you , my nurse , my friend , my sister !-- You , who had seen all the fretful selfishness of my latter days ; who had known all the murmurings of my heart !-- How should I have lived in YOUR remembrance !-- My mother too !
How could you have consoled her !-- I cannot express my own abhorrence of myself .
Whenever I looked towards the past , I saw some duty neglected , or some failing indulged .
Every body seemed injured by me .
The kindness , the unceasing kindness of Mrs . Jennings , I had repaid with ungrateful contempt .
To the Middletons , to the Palmers , the Steeles , to every common acquaintance even , I had been insolent and unjust ; with a heart hardened against their merits , and a temper irritated by their very attention .-- To John , to Fanny ,-- yes , even to them , little as they deserve , I had given less than their due .
But you ,-- you above all , above my mother , had been wronged by me .
I , and only I , knew your heart and its sorrows ; yet to what did it influence me ?-- not to any compassion that could benefit you or myself .-- Your example was before me ; but to what avail ?-- Was I more considerate of you and your comfort ?
Did I imitate your forbearance , or lessen your restraints , by taking any part in those offices of general complaisance or particular gratitude which you had hitherto been left to discharge alone ?-- No ;-- not less when I knew you to be unhappy , than when I had believed you at ease , did I turn away from every exertion of duty or friendship ; scarcely allowing sorrow to exist but with me , regretting only THAT heart which had deserted and wronged me , and leaving you , for or I professed an unbounded affection , to be miserable for my sake ."
Here ceased the rapid flow of her self - reproving spirit ; and Elinor , impatient to soothe , though too honest to flatter , gave her instantly that praise and support which her frankness and her contrition so well deserved .
Marianne pressed her hand and replied ,
" You are very good .-- The future must be my proof .
I have laid down my plan , and if I am capable of adhering to it -- my feelings shall be governed and my temper improved .
They shall no longer worry others , nor torture myself .
I shall now live solely for my family .
You , my mother , and Margaret , must henceforth be all the world to me ; you will share my affections entirely between you .
> From you , from my home , I shall never again have the smallest incitement to move ; and if I do mix in other society , it will be only to shew that my spirit is humbled , my heart amended , and that I can practise the civilities , the lesser duties of life , with gentleness and forbearance .
As for Willoughby -- to say that I shall soon or that I shall ever forget him , would be idle .
His remembrance can be overcome by no change of circumstances or opinions .
But it shall be regulated , it shall be checked by religion , by reason , by constant employment ."
She paused -- and added in a low voice , " If I could but know HIS heart , everything would become easy ."
Elinor , who had now been for some time reflecting on the propriety or impropriety of speedily hazarding her narration , without feeling at all nearer decision than at first , heard this ; and perceiving that as reflection did nothing , resolution must do all , soon found herself leading to the fact .
She managed the recital , as she hoped , with address ; prepared her anxious listener with caution ; related simply and honestly the chief points on which Willoughby grounded his apology ; did justice to his repentance , and softened only his protestations of present regard .
Marianne said not a word .-- She trembled , her eyes were fixed on the ground , and her lips became whiter than even sickness had left them .
A thousand inquiries sprung up from her heart , but she dared not urge one .
She caught every syllable with panting eagerness ; her hand , unknowingly to herself , closely pressed her sister ' s , and tears covered her cheeks .
Elinor , dreading her being tired , led her towards home ; and till they reached the door of the cottage , easily conjecturing what her curiosity must be though no question was suffered to speak it , talked of nothing but Willoughby , and their conversation together ; and was carefully minute in every particular of speech and look , where minuteness could be safely indulged .
As soon as they entered the house , Marianne with a kiss of gratitude and these two words just articulate through her tears , " Tell mama ," withdrew from her sister and walked slowly up stairs .
Elinor would not attempt to disturb a solitude so reasonable as what she now sought ; and with a mind anxiously pre - arranging its result , and a resolution of reviving the subject again , should Marianne fail to do it , she turned into the parlour to fulfill her parting injunction .
CHAPTER 47
Mrs . Dashwood did not hear unmoved the vindication of her former favourite .
She rejoiced in his being cleared from some part of his imputed guilt ;-- she was sorry for him ;-- she wished him happy .
But the feelings of the past could not be recalled .-- Nothing could restore him with a faith unbroken -- a character unblemished , to Marianne .
Nothing could do away the knowledge of what the latter had suffered through his means , nor remove the guilt of his conduct towards Eliza .
Nothing could replace him , therefore , in her former esteem , nor injure the interests of Colonel Brandon .
Had Mrs . Dashwood , like her daughter , heard Willoughby ' s story from himself -- had she witnessed his distress , and been under the influence of his countenance and his manner , it is probable that her compassion would have been greater .
But it was neither in Elinor ' s power , nor in her wish , to rouse such feelings in another , by her retailed explanation , as had at first been called forth in herself .
Reflection had given calmness to her judgment , and sobered her own opinion of Willoughby ' s deserts ;-- she wished , therefore , to declare only the simple truth , and lay open such facts as were really due to his character , without any embellishment of tenderness to lead the fancy astray .
In the evening , when they were all three together , Marianne began voluntarily to speak of him again ;-- but that it was not without an effort , the restless , unquiet thoughtfulness in which she had been for some time previously sitting -- her rising colour , as she spoke ,-- and her unsteady voice , plainly shewed .
" I wish to assure you both ," said she , " that I see every thing -- as you can desire me to do ."
Mrs . Dashwood would have interrupted her instantly with soothing tenderness , had not Elinor , who really wished to hear her sister ' s unbiased opinion , by an eager sign , engaged her silence .
Marianne slowly continued --
" It is a great relief to me -- what Elinor told me this morning -- I have now heard exactly what I wished to hear ."
-- For some moments her voice was lost ; but recovering herself , she added , and with greater calmness than before --" I am now perfectly satisfied , I wish for no change .
I never could have been happy with him , after knowing , as sooner or later I must have known , all this .-- I should have had no confidence , no esteem .
Nothing could have done it away to my feelings ."
" I know it -- I know it ," cried her mother .
" Happy with a man of libertine practices !-- With one who so injured the peace of the dearest of our friends , and the best of men !-- No -- my Marianne has not a heart to be made happy with such a man !-- Her conscience , her sensitive conscience , would have felt all that the conscience of her husband ought to have felt ."
Marianne sighed , and repeated , " I wish for no change ."
" You consider the matter ," said Elinor , " exactly as a good mind and a sound understanding must consider it ; and I dare say you perceive , as well as myself , not only in this , but in many other circumstances , reason enough to be convinced that your marriage must have involved you in many certain troubles and disappointments , in which you would have been poorly supported by an affection , on his side , much less certain .
Had you married , you must have been always poor .
His expensiveness is acknowledged even by himself , and his whole conduct declares that self - denial is a word hardly understood by him .
His demands and your inexperience together , on a small , very small income , must have brought on distresses which would not be the LESS grievous to you , from having been entirely unknown and unthought of before .
YOUR sense of honour and honesty would have led you , I know , when aware of your situation , to attempt all the economy that would appear to you possible : and , perhaps , as long as your frugality retrenched only on your own comfort , you might have been suffered to practice it , but beyond that -- and how little could the utmost of your single management do to stop the ruin which had begun before your marriage ?-- Beyond THAT , had you endeavoured , however reasonably , to abridge HIS enjoyments , is it not to be feared , that instead of prevailing on feelings so selfish to consent to it , you would have lessened your own influence on his heart , and made him regret the connection which had involved him in such difficulties ?"
Marianne ' s lips quivered , and she repeated the word " Selfish ?"
in a tone that implied --" do you really think him selfish ?"
" The whole of his behaviour ," replied Elinor , " from the beginning to the end of the affair , has been grounded on selfishness .
It was selfishness which first made him sport with your affections ; which afterwards , when his own were engaged , made him delay the confession of it , and which finally carried him from Barton .
His own enjoyment , or his own ease , was , in every particular , his ruling principle ."
" It is very true .
MY happiness never was his object ."
" At present ," continued Elinor , " he regrets what he has done .
And why does he regret it ?-- Because he finds it has not answered towards himself .
It has not made him happy .
His circumstances are now unembarrassed -- he suffers from no evil of that kind ; and he thinks only that he has married a woman of a less amiable temper than yourself .
But does it follow that had he married you , he would have been happy ?-- The inconveniences would have been different .
He would then have suffered under the pecuniary distresses which , because they are removed , he now reckons as nothing .
He would have had a wife of whose temper he could make no complaint , but he would have been always necessitous -- always poor ; and probably would soon have learned to rank the innumerable comforts of a clear estate and good income as of far more importance , even to domestic happiness , than the mere temper of a wife ."
" I have not a doubt of it ," said Marianne ; " and I have nothing to regret -- nothing but my own folly ."
" Rather say your mother ' s imprudence , my child ," said Mrs . Dashwood ; " SHE must be answerable ."
Marianne would not let her proceed ;-- and Elinor , satisfied that each felt their own error , wished to avoid any survey of the past that might weaken her sister ' s spirits ; she , therefore , pursuing the first subject , immediately continued ,
" One observation may , I think , be fairly drawn from the whole of the story -- that all Willoughby ' s difficulties have arisen from the first offence against virtue , in his behaviour to Eliza Williams .
That crime has been the origin of every lesser one , and of all his present discontents ."
Marianne assented most feelingly to the remark ; and her mother was led by it to an enumeration of Colonel Brandon ' s injuries and merits , warm as friendship and design could unitedly dictate .
Her daughter did not look , however , as if much of it were heard by her .
Elinor , according to her expectation , saw on the two or three following days , that Marianne did not continue to gain strength as she had done ; but while her resolution was unsubdued , and she still tried to appear cheerful and easy , her sister could safely trust to the effect of time upon her health .
Margaret returned , and the family were again all restored to each other , again quietly settled at the cottage ; and if not pursuing their usual studies with quite so much vigour as when they first came to Barton , at least planning a vigorous prosecution of them in future .
Elinor grew impatient for some tidings of Edward .
She had heard nothing of him since her leaving London , nothing new of his plans , nothing certain even of his present abode .
Some letters had passed between her and her brother , in consequence of Marianne ' s illness ; and in the first of John ' s , there had been this sentence :-- " We know nothing of our unfortunate Edward , and can make no enquiries on so prohibited a subject , but conclude him to be still at Oxford ;" which was all the intelligence of Edward afforded her by the correspondence , for his name was not even mentioned in any of the succeeding letters .
She was not doomed , however , to be long in ignorance of his measures .
Their man - servant had been sent one morning to Exeter on business ; and when , as he waited at table , he had satisfied the inquiries of his mistress as to the event of his errand , this was his voluntary communication --
" I suppose you know , ma ' am , that Mr . Ferrars is married ."
Marianne gave a violent start , fixed her eyes upon Elinor , saw her turning pale , and fell back in her chair in hysterics .
Mrs . Dashwood , whose eyes , as she answered the servant ' s inquiry , had intuitively taken the same direction , was shocked to perceive by Elinor ' s countenance how much she really suffered , and a moment afterwards , alike distressed by Marianne ' s situation , knew not on which child to bestow her principal attention .
The servant , who saw only that Miss Marianne was taken ill , had sense enough to call one of the maids , who , with Mrs . Dashwood ' s assistance , supported her into the other room .
By that time , Marianne was rather better , and her mother leaving her to the care of Margaret and the maid , returned to Elinor , who , though still much disordered , had so far recovered the use of her reason and voice as to be just beginning an inquiry of Thomas , as to the source of his intelligence .
Mrs . Dashwood immediately took all that trouble on herself ; and Elinor had the benefit of the information without the exertion of seeking it .
" Who told you that Mr . Ferrars was married , Thomas ?"
" I see Mr . Ferrars myself , ma ' am , this morning in Exeter , and his lady too , Miss Steele as was .
They was stopping in a chaise at the door of the New London Inn , as I went there with a message from Sally at the Park to her brother , who is one of the post - boys .
I happened to look up as I went by the chaise , and so I see directly it was the youngest Miss Steele ; so I took off my hat , and she knew me and called to me , and inquired after you , ma ' am , and the young ladies , especially Miss Marianne , and bid me I should give her compliments and Mr . Ferrars ' s , their best compliments and service , and how sorry they was they had not time to come on and see you , but they was in a great hurry to go forwards , for they was going further down for a little while , but howsever , when they come back , they ' d make sure to come and see you ."
" But did she tell you she was married , Thomas ?"
" Yes , ma ' am .
She smiled , and said how she had changed her name since she was in these parts .
She was always a very affable and free - spoken young lady , and very civil behaved .
So , I made free to wish her joy ."
" Was Mr . Ferrars in the carriage with her ?"
" Yes , ma ' am , I just see him leaning back in it , but he did not look up ;-- he never was a gentleman much for talking ."
Elinor ' s heart could easily account for his not putting himself forward ; and Mrs . Dashwood probably found the same explanation .
" Was there no one else in the carriage ?"
" No , ma ' am , only they two ."
" Do you know where they came from ?"
" They come straight from town , as Miss Lucy -- Mrs . Ferrars told me ."
" And are they going farther westward ?"
" Yes , ma ' am -- but not to bide long .
They will soon be back again , and then they ' d be sure and call here ."
Mrs . Dashwood now looked at her daughter ; but Elinor knew better than to expect them .
She recognised the whole of Lucy in the message , and was very confident that Edward would never come near them .
She observed in a low voice , to her mother , that they were probably going down to Mr . Pratt ' s , near Plymouth .
Thomas ' s intelligence seemed over .
Elinor looked as if she wished to hear more .
" Did you see them off , before you came away ?"
" No , ma ' am -- the horses were just coming out , but I could not bide any longer ; I was afraid of being late ."
" Did Mrs . Ferrars look well ?"
" Yes , ma ' am , she said how she was very well ; and to my mind she was always a very handsome young lady -- and she seemed vastly contented ."
Mrs . Dashwood could think of no other question , and Thomas and the tablecloth , now alike needless , were soon afterwards dismissed .
Marianne had already sent to say , that she should eat nothing more .
Mrs . Dashwood ' s and Elinor ' s appetites were equally lost , and Margaret might think herself very well off , that with so much uneasiness as both her sisters had lately experienced , so much reason as they had often had to be careless of their meals , she had never been obliged to go without her dinner before .
When the dessert and the wine were arranged , and Mrs . Dashwood and Elinor were left by themselves , they remained long together in a similarity of thoughtfulness and silence .
Mrs . Dashwood feared to hazard any remark , and ventured not to offer consolation .
She now found that she had erred in relying on Elinor ' s representation of herself ; and justly concluded that every thing had been expressly softened at the time , to spare her from an increase of unhappiness , suffering as she then had suffered for Marianne .
She found that she had been misled by the careful , the considerate attention of her daughter , to think the attachment , which once she had so well understood , much slighter in reality , than she had been wont to believe , or than it was now proved to be .
She feared that under this persuasion she had been unjust , inattentive , nay , almost unkind , to her Elinor ;-- that Marianne ' s affliction , because more acknowledged , more immediately before her , had too much engrossed her tenderness , and led her away to forget that in Elinor she might have a daughter suffering almost as much , certainly with less self - provocation , and greater fortitude .
CHAPTER 48
Elinor now found the difference between the expectation of an unpleasant event , however certain the mind may be told to consider it , and certainty itself .
She now found , that in spite of herself , she had always admitted a hope , while Edward remained single , that something would occur to prevent his marrying Lucy ; that some resolution of his own , some mediation of friends , or some more eligible opportunity of establishment for the lady , would arise to assist the happiness of all .
But he was now married ; and she condemned her heart for the lurking flattery , which so much heightened the pain of the intelligence .
That he should be married soon , before ( as she imagined ) he could be in orders , and consequently before he could be in possession of the living , surprised her a little at first .
But she soon saw how likely it was that Lucy , in her self - provident care , in her haste to secure him , should overlook every thing but the risk of delay .
They were married , married in town , and now hastening down to her uncle ' s .
What had Edward felt on being within four miles from Barton , on seeing her mother ' s servant , on hearing Lucy ' s message !
They would soon , she supposed , be settled at Delaford .-- Delaford ,-- that place in which so much conspired to give her an interest ; which she wished to be acquainted with , and yet desired to avoid .
She saw them in an instant in their parsonage - house ; saw in Lucy , the active , contriving manager , uniting at once a desire of smart appearance with the utmost frugality , and ashamed to be suspected of half her economical practices ;-- pursuing her own interest in every thought , courting the favour of Colonel Brandon , of Mrs . Jennings , and of every wealthy friend .
In Edward -- she knew not what she saw , nor what she wished to see ;-- happy or unhappy ,-- nothing pleased her ; she turned away her head from every sketch of him .
Elinor flattered herself that some one of their connections in London would write to them to announce the event , and give farther particulars ,-- but day after day passed off , and brought no letter , no tidings .
Though uncertain that any one were to blame , she found fault with every absent friend .
They were all thoughtless or indolent .
" When do you write to Colonel Brandon , ma ' am ?"
was an inquiry which sprung from the impatience of her mind to have something going on .
" I wrote to him , my love , last week , and rather expect to see , than to hear from him again .
I earnestly pressed his coming to us , and should not be surprised to see him walk in today or tomorrow , or any day ."
This was gaining something , something to look forward to .
Colonel Brandon must have some information to give .
Scarcely had she so determined it , when the figure of a man on horseback drew her eyes to the window .
He stopt at their gate .
It was a gentleman , it was Colonel Brandon himself .
Now she could hear more ; and she trembled in expectation of it .
But -- it was NOT Colonel Brandon -- neither his air -- nor his height .
Were it possible , she must say it must be Edward .
She looked again .
He had just dismounted ;-- she could not be mistaken ,-- it WAS Edward .
She moved away and sat down .
" He comes from Mr . Pratt ' s purposely to see us .
I WILL be calm ; I WILL be mistress of myself ."
In a moment she perceived that the others were likewise aware of the mistake .
She saw her mother and Marianne change colour ; saw them look at herself , and whisper a few sentences to each other .
She would have given the world to be able to speak -- and to make them understand that she hoped no coolness , no slight , would appear in their behaviour to him ;-- but she had no utterance , and was obliged to leave all to their own discretion .
Not a syllable passed aloud .
They all waited in silence for the appearance of their visitor .
His footsteps were heard along the gravel path ; in a moment he was in the passage , and in another he was before them .
His countenance , as he entered the room , was not too happy , even for Elinor .
His complexion was white with agitation , and he looked as if fearful of his reception , and conscious that he merited no kind one .
Mrs . Dashwood , however , conforming , as she trusted , to the wishes of that daughter , by whom she then meant in the warmth of her heart to be guided in every thing , met with a look of forced complacency , gave him her hand , and wished him joy .
He coloured , and stammered out an unintelligible reply .
Elinor ' s lips had moved with her mother ' s , and , when the moment of action was over , she wished that she had shaken hands with him too .
But it was then too late , and with a countenance meaning to be open , she sat down again and talked of the weather .
Marianne had retreated as much as possible out of sight , to conceal her distress ; and Margaret , understanding some part , but not the whole of the case , thought it incumbent on her to be dignified , and therefore took a seat as far from him as she could , and maintained a strict silence .
When Elinor had ceased to rejoice in the dryness of the season , a very awful pause took place .
It was put an end to by Mrs . Dashwood , who felt obliged to hope that he had left Mrs . Ferrars very well .
In a hurried manner , he replied in the affirmative .
Another pause .
Elinor resolving to exert herself , though fearing the sound of her own voice , now said ,
" Is Mrs . Ferrars at Longstaple ?"
" At Longstaple !"
he replied , with an air of surprise .-- " No , my mother is in town ."
" I meant ," said Elinor , taking up some work from the table , " to inquire for Mrs . EDWARD Ferrars ."
She dared not look up ;-- but her mother and Marianne both turned their eyes on him .
He coloured , seemed perplexed , looked doubtingly , and , after some hesitation , said ,--
" Perhaps you mean -- my brother -- you mean Mrs .-- Mrs . ROBERT Ferrars ."
" Mrs . Robert Ferrars !"
-- was repeated by Marianne and her mother in an accent of the utmost amazement ;-- and though Elinor could not speak , even HER eyes were fixed on him with the same impatient wonder .
He rose from his seat , and walked to the window , apparently from not knowing what to do ; took up a pair of scissors that lay there , and while spoiling both them and their sheath by cutting the latter to pieces as he spoke , said , in a hurried voice ,
" Perhaps you do not know -- you may not have heard that my brother is lately married to -- to the youngest -- to Miss Lucy Steele ."
His words were echoed with unspeakable astonishment by all but Elinor , who sat with her head leaning over her work , in a state of such agitation as made her hardly know where she was .
" Yes ," said he , " they were married last week , and are now at Dawlish ."
Elinor could sit it no longer .
She almost ran out of the room , and as soon as the door was closed , burst into tears of joy , which at first she thought would never cease .
Edward , who had till then looked any where , rather than at her , saw her hurry away , and perhaps saw -- or even heard , her emotion ; for immediately afterwards he fell into a reverie , which no remarks , no inquiries , no affectionate address of Mrs . Dashwood could penetrate , and at last , without saying a word , quitted the room , and walked out towards the village -- leaving the others in the greatest astonishment and perplexity on a change in his situation , so wonderful and so sudden ;-- a perplexity which they had no means of lessening but by their own conjectures .
CHAPTER 49
Unaccountable , however , as the circumstances of his release might appear to the whole family , it was certain that Edward was free ; and to what purpose that freedom would be employed was easily pre - determined by all ;-- for after experiencing the blessings of ONE imprudent engagement , contracted without his mother ' s consent , as he had already done for more than four years , nothing less could be expected of him in the failure of THAT , than the immediate contraction of another .
His errand at Barton , in fact , was a simple one .
It was only to ask Elinor to marry him ;-- and considering that he was not altogether inexperienced in such a question , it might be strange that he should feel so uncomfortable in the present case as he really did , so much in need of encouragement and fresh air .
How soon he had walked himself into the proper resolution , however , how soon an opportunity of exercising it occurred , in what manner he expressed himself , and how he was received , need not be particularly told .
This only need be said ;-- that when they all sat down to table at four o ' clock , about three hours after his arrival , he had secured his lady , engaged her mother ' s consent , and was not only in the rapturous profession of the lover , but , in the reality of reason and truth , one of the happiest of men .
His situation indeed was more than commonly joyful .
He had more than the ordinary triumph of accepted love to swell his heart , and raise his spirits .
He was released without any reproach to himself , from an entanglement which had long formed his misery , from a woman whom he had long ceased to love ;-- and elevated at once to that security with another , which he must have thought of almost with despair , as soon as he had learnt to consider it with desire .
He was brought , not from doubt or suspense , but from misery to happiness ;-- and the change was openly spoken in such a genuine , flowing , grateful cheerfulness , as his friends had never witnessed in him before .
His heart was now open to Elinor , all its weaknesses , all its errors confessed , and his first boyish attachment to Lucy treated with all the philosophic dignity of twenty - four .
" It was a foolish , idle inclination on my side ," said he , " the consequence of ignorance of the world -- and want of employment .
Had my brother given me some active profession when I was removed at eighteen from the care of Mr . Pratt , I think -- nay , I am sure , it would never have happened ; for though I left Longstaple with what I thought , at the time , a most unconquerable preference for his niece , yet had I then had any pursuit , any object to engage my time and keep me at a distance from her for a few months , I should very soon have outgrown the fancied attachment , especially by mixing more with the world , as in such case I must have done .
But instead of having any thing to do , instead of having any profession chosen for me , or being allowed to chuse any myself , I returned home to be completely idle ; and for the first twelvemonth afterwards I had not even the nominal employment , which belonging to the university would have given me ; for I was not entered at Oxford till I was nineteen .
I had therefore nothing in the world to do , but to fancy myself in love ; and as my mother did not make my home in every respect comfortable , as I had no friend , no companion in my brother , and disliked new acquaintance , it was not unnatural for me to be very often at Longstaple , where I always felt myself at home , and was always sure of a welcome ; and accordingly I spent the greatest part of my time there from eighteen to nineteen : Lucy appeared everything that was amiable and obliging .
She was pretty too -- at least I thought so THEN ; and I had seen so little of other women , that I could make no comparisons , and see no defects .
Considering everything , therefore , I hope , foolish as our engagement was , foolish as it has since in every way been proved , it was not at the time an unnatural or an inexcusable piece of folly ."
The change which a few hours had wrought in the minds and the happiness of the Dashwoods , was such -- so great -- as promised them all , the satisfaction of a sleepless night .
Mrs . Dashwood , too happy to be comfortable , knew not how to love Edward , nor praise Elinor enough , how to be enough thankful for his release without wounding his delicacy , nor how at once to give them leisure for unrestrained conversation together , and yet enjoy , as she wished , the sight and society of both .
Marianne could speak HER happiness only by tears .
Comparisons would occur -- regrets would arise ;-- and her joy , though sincere as her love for her sister , was of a kind to give her neither spirits nor language .
But Elinor -- how are HER feelings to be described ?-- From the moment of learning that Lucy was married to another , that Edward was free , to the moment of his justifying the hopes which had so instantly followed , she was every thing by turns but tranquil .
But when the second moment had passed , when she found every doubt , every solicitude removed , compared her situation with what so lately it had been ,-- saw him honourably released from his former engagement , saw him instantly profiting by the release , to address herself and declare an affection as tender , as constant as she had ever supposed it to be ,-- she was oppressed , she was overcome by her own felicity ;-- and happily disposed as is the human mind to be easily familiarized with any change for the better , it required several hours to give sedateness to her spirits , or any degree of tranquillity to her heart .
Edward was now fixed at the cottage at least for a week ;-- for whatever other claims might be made on him , it was impossible that less than a week should be given up to the enjoyment of Elinor ' s company , or suffice to say half that was to be said of the past , the present , and the future ;-- for though a very few hours spent in the hard labor of incessant talking will despatch more subjects than can really be in common between any two rational creatures , yet with lovers it is different .
Between THEM no subject is finished , no communication is even made , till it has been made at least twenty times over .
Lucy ' s marriage , the unceasing and reasonable wonder among them all , formed of course one of the earliest discussions of the lovers ;-- and Elinor ' s particular knowledge of each party made it appear to her in every view , as one of the most extraordinary and unaccountable circumstances she had ever heard .
How they could be thrown together , and by what attraction Robert could be drawn on to marry a girl , of whose beauty she had herself heard him speak without any admiration ,-- a girl too already engaged to his brother , and on whose account that brother had been thrown off by his family -- it was beyond her comprehension to make out .
To her own heart it was a delightful affair , to her imagination it was even a ridiculous one , but to her reason , her judgment , it was completely a puzzle .
Edward could only attempt an explanation by supposing , that , perhaps , at first accidentally meeting , the vanity of the one had been so worked on by the flattery of the other , as to lead by degrees to all the rest .
Elinor remembered what Robert had told her in Harley Street , of his opinion of what his own mediation in his brother ' s affairs might have done , if applied to in time .
She repeated it to Edward .
" THAT was exactly like Robert ,"-- was his immediate observation .--" And THAT ," he presently added , " might perhaps be in HIS head when the acquaintance between them first began .
And Lucy perhaps at first might think only of procuring his good offices in my favour .
Other designs might afterward arise ."
How long it had been carrying on between them , however , he was equally at a loss with herself to make out ; for at Oxford , where he had remained for choice ever since his quitting London , he had had no means of hearing of her but from herself , and her letters to the very last were neither less frequent , nor less affectionate than usual .
Not the smallest suspicion , therefore , had ever occurred to prepare him for what followed ;-- and when at last it burst on him in a letter from Lucy herself , he had been for some time , he believed , half stupified between the wonder , the horror , and the joy of such a deliverance .
He put the letter into Elinor ' s hands .
" DEAR SIR ,
" Being very sure I have long lost your affections , I have thought myself at liberty to bestow my own on another , and have no doubt of being as happy with him as I once used to think I might be with you ; but I scorn to accept a hand while the heart was another ' s .
Sincerely wish you happy in your choice , and it shall not be my fault if we are not always good friends , as our near relationship now makes proper .
I can safely say I owe you no ill - will , and am sure you will be too generous to do us any ill offices .
Your brother has gained my affections entirely , and as we could not live without one another , we are just returned from the altar , and are now on our way to Dawlish for a few weeks , which place your dear brother has great curiosity to see , but thought I would first trouble you with these few lines , and shall always remain ,
" Your sincere well - wisher , friend , and sister , " LUCY FERRARS .
" I have burnt all your letters , and will return your picture the first opportunity .
Please to destroy my scrawls -- but the ring with my hair you are very welcome to keep ."
Elinor read and returned it without any comment .
" I will not ask your opinion of it as a composition ," said Edward .--" For worlds would not I have had a letter of hers seen by YOU in former days .-- In a sister it is bad enough , but in a wife !-- how I have blushed over the pages of her writing !-- and I believe I may say that since the first half year of our foolish -- business -- this is the only letter I ever received from her , of which the substance made me any amends for the defect of the style ."
" However it may have come about ," said Elinor , after a pause ,--" they are certainly married .
And your mother has brought on herself a most appropriate punishment .
The independence she settled on Robert , through resentment against you , has put it in his power to make his own choice ; and she has actually been bribing one son with a thousand a - year , to do the very deed which she disinherited the other for intending to do .
She will hardly be less hurt , I suppose , by Robert ' s marrying Lucy , than she would have been by your marrying her ."
" She will be more hurt by it , for Robert always was her favourite .-- She will be more hurt by it , and on the same principle will forgive him much sooner ."
In what state the affair stood at present between them , Edward knew not , for no communication with any of his family had yet been attempted by him .
He had quitted Oxford within four and twenty hours after Lucy ' s letter arrived , and with only one object before him , the nearest road to Barton , had had no leisure to form any scheme of conduct , with which that road did not hold the most intimate connection .
He could do nothing till he were assured of his fate with Miss Dashwood ; and by his rapidity in seeking THAT fate , it is to be supposed , in spite of the jealousy with which he had once thought of Colonel Brandon , in spite of the modesty with which he rated his own deserts , and the politeness with which he talked of his doubts , he did not , upon the whole , expect a very cruel reception .
It was his business , however , to say that he DID , and he said it very prettily .
What he might say on the subject a twelvemonth after , must be referred to the imagination of husbands and wives .
That Lucy had certainly meant to deceive , to go off with a flourish of malice against him in her message by Thomas , was perfectly clear to Elinor ; and Edward himself , now thoroughly enlightened on her character , had no scruple in believing her capable of the utmost meanness of wanton ill - nature .
Though his eyes had been long opened , even before his acquaintance with Elinor began , to her ignorance and a want of liberality in some of her opinions -- they had been equally imputed , by him , to her want of education ; and till her last letter reached him , he had always believed her to be a well - disposed , good - hearted girl , and thoroughly attached to himself .
Nothing but such a persuasion could have prevented his putting an end to an engagement , which , long before the discovery of it laid him open to his mother ' s anger , had been a continual source of disquiet and regret to him .
" I thought it my duty ," said he , " independent of my feelings , to give her the option of continuing the engagement or not , when I was renounced by my mother , and stood to all appearance without a friend in the world to assist me .
In such a situation as that , where there seemed nothing to tempt the avarice or the vanity of any living creature , how could I suppose , when she so earnestly , so warmly insisted on sharing my fate , whatever it might be , that any thing but the most disinterested affection was her inducement ?
And even now , I cannot comprehend on what motive she acted , or what fancied advantage it could be to her , to be fettered to a man for whom she had not the smallest regard , and who had only two thousand pounds in the world .
She could not foresee that Colonel Brandon would give me a living ."
" No ; but she might suppose that something would occur in your favour ; that your own family might in time relent .
And at any rate , she lost nothing by continuing the engagement , for she has proved that it fettered neither her inclination nor her actions .
The connection was certainly a respectable one , and probably gained her consideration among her friends ; and , if nothing more advantageous occurred , it would be better for her to marry YOU than be single ."
Edward was , of course , immediately convinced that nothing could have been more natural than Lucy ' s conduct , nor more self - evident than the motive of it .
Elinor scolded him , harshly as ladies always scold the imprudence which compliments themselves , for having spent so much time with them at Norland , when he must have felt his own inconstancy .
" Your behaviour was certainly very wrong ," said she ; " because -- to say nothing of my own conviction , our relations were all led away by it to fancy and expect WHAT , as you were THEN situated , could never be ."
He could only plead an ignorance of his own heart , and a mistaken confidence in the force of his engagement .
" I was simple enough to think , that because my FAITH was plighted to another , there could be no danger in my being with you ; and that the consciousness of my engagement was to keep my heart as safe and sacred as my honour .
I felt that I admired you , but I told myself it was only friendship ; and till I began to make comparisons between yourself and Lucy , I did not know how far I was got .
After that , I suppose , I WAS wrong in remaining so much in Sussex , and the arguments with which I reconciled myself to the expediency of it , were no better than these :-- The danger is my own ; I am doing no injury to anybody but myself ."
Elinor smiled , and shook her head .
Edward heard with pleasure of Colonel Brandon ' s being expected at the Cottage , as he really wished not only to be better acquainted with him , but to have an opportunity of convincing him that he no longer resented his giving him the living of Delaford --" Which , at present ," said he , " after thanks so ungraciously delivered as mine were on the occasion , he must think I have never forgiven him for offering ."
NOW he felt astonished himself that he had never yet been to the place .
But so little interest had be taken in the matter , that he owed all his knowledge of the house , garden , and glebe , extent of the parish , condition of the land , and rate of the tithes , to Elinor herself , who had heard so much of it from Colonel Brandon , and heard it with so much attention , as to be entirely mistress of the subject .
One question after this only remained undecided , between them , one difficulty only was to be overcome .
They were brought together by mutual affection , with the warmest approbation of their real friends ; their intimate knowledge of each other seemed to make their happiness certain -- and they only wanted something to live upon .
Edward had two thousand pounds , and Elinor one , which , with Delaford living , was all that they could call their own ; for it was impossible that Mrs . Dashwood should advance anything ; and they were neither of them quite enough in love to think that three hundred and fifty pounds a - year would supply them with the comforts of life .
Edward was not entirely without hopes of some favourable change in his mother towards him ; and on THAT he rested for the residue of their income .
But Elinor had no such dependence ; for since Edward would still be unable to marry Miss Morton , and his chusing herself had been spoken of in Mrs . Ferrars ' s flattering language as only a lesser evil than his chusing Lucy Steele , she feared that Robert ' s offence would serve no other purpose than to enrich Fanny .
About four days after Edward ' s arrival Colonel Brandon appeared , to complete Mrs . Dashwood ' s satisfaction , and to give her the dignity of having , for the first time since her living at Barton , more company with her than her house would hold .
Edward was allowed to retain the privilege of first comer , and Colonel Brandon therefore walked every night to his old quarters at the Park ; from whence he usually returned in the morning , early enough to interrupt the lovers ' first tete - a - tete before breakfast .
A three weeks ' residence at Delaford , where , in his evening hours at least , he had little to do but to calculate the disproportion between thirty - six and seventeen , brought him to Barton in a temper of mind which needed all the improvement in Marianne ' s looks , all the kindness of her welcome , and all the encouragement of her mother ' s language , to make it cheerful .
Among such friends , however , and such flattery , he did revive .
No rumour of Lucy ' s marriage had yet reached him :-- he knew nothing of what had passed ; and the first hours of his visit were consequently spent in hearing and in wondering .
Every thing was explained to him by Mrs . Dashwood , and he found fresh reason to rejoice in what he had done for Mr . Ferrars , since eventually it promoted the interest of Elinor .
It would be needless to say , that the gentlemen advanced in the good opinion of each other , as they advanced in each other ' s acquaintance , for it could not be otherwise .
Their resemblance in good principles and good sense , in disposition and manner of thinking , would probably have been sufficient to unite them in friendship , without any other attraction ; but their being in love with two sisters , and two sisters fond of each other , made that mutual regard inevitable and immediate , which might otherwise have waited the effect of time and judgment .
The letters from town , which a few days before would have made every nerve in Elinor ' s body thrill with transport , now arrived to be read with less emotion that mirth .
Mrs . Jennings wrote to tell the wonderful tale , to vent her honest indignation against the jilting girl , and pour forth her compassion towards poor Mr . Edward , who , she was sure , had quite doted upon the worthless hussy , and was now , by all accounts , almost broken - hearted , at Oxford .-- " I do think ," she continued , " nothing was ever carried on so sly ; for it was but two days before Lucy called and sat a couple of hours with me .
Not a soul suspected anything of the matter , not even Nancy , who , poor soul !
came crying to me the day after , in a great fright for fear of Mrs . Ferrars , as well as not knowing how to get to Plymouth ; for Lucy it seems borrowed all her money before she went off to be married , on purpose we suppose to make a show with , and poor Nancy had not seven shillings in the world ;-- so I was very glad to give her five guineas to take her down to Exeter , where she thinks of staying three or four weeks with Mrs . Burgess , in hopes , as I tell her , to fall in with the Doctor again .
And I must say that Lucy ' s crossness not to take them along with them in the chaise is worse than all .
Poor Mr . Edward !
I cannot get him out of my head , but you must send for him to Barton , and Miss Marianne must try to comfort him ."
Mr . Dashwood ' s strains were more solemn .
Mrs . Ferrars was the most unfortunate of women -- poor Fanny had suffered agonies of sensibility -- and he considered the existence of each , under such a blow , with grateful wonder .
Robert ' s offence was unpardonable , but Lucy ' s was infinitely worse .
Neither of them were ever again to be mentioned to Mrs . Ferrars ; and even , if she might hereafter be induced to forgive her son , his wife should never be acknowledged as her daughter , nor be permitted to appear in her presence .
The secrecy with which everything had been carried on between them , was rationally treated as enormously heightening the crime , because , had any suspicion of it occurred to the others , proper measures would have been taken to prevent the marriage ; and he called on Elinor to join with him in regretting that Lucy ' s engagement with Edward had not rather been fulfilled , than that she should thus be the means of spreading misery farther in the family .-- He thus continued :
" Mrs . Ferrars has never yet mentioned Edward ' s name , which does not surprise us ; but , to our great astonishment , not a line has been received from him on the occasion .
Perhaps , however , he is kept silent by his fear of offending , and I shall , therefore , give him a hint , by a line to Oxford , that his sister and I both think a letter of proper submission from him , addressed perhaps to Fanny , and by her shewn to her mother , might not be taken amiss ; for we all know the tenderness of Mrs . Ferrars ' s heart , and that she wishes for nothing so much as to be on good terms with her children ."
This paragraph was of some importance to the prospects and conduct of Edward .
It determined him to attempt a reconciliation , though not exactly in the manner pointed out by their brother and sister .
" A letter of proper submission !"
repeated he ; " would they have me beg my mother ' s pardon for Robert ' s ingratitude to HER , and breach of honour to ME ?-- I can make no submission -- I am grown neither humble nor penitent by what has passed .-- I am grown very happy ; but that would not interest .-- I know of no submission that IS proper for me to make ."
" You may certainly ask to be forgiven ," said Elinor , " because you have offended ;-- and I should think you might NOW venture so far as to profess some concern for having ever formed the engagement which drew on you your mother ' s anger ."
He agreed that he might .
" And when she has forgiven you , perhaps a little humility may be convenient while acknowledging a second engagement , almost as imprudent in HER eyes as the first ."
He had nothing to urge against it , but still resisted the idea of a letter of proper submission ; and therefore , to make it easier to him , as he declared a much greater willingness to make mean concessions by word of mouth than on paper , it was resolved that , instead of writing to Fanny , he should go to London , and personally intreat her good offices in his favour .-- " And if they really DO interest themselves ," said Marianne , in her new character of candour , " in bringing about a reconciliation , I shall think that even John and Fanny are not entirely without merit ."
After a visit on Colonel Brandon ' s side of only three or four days , the two gentlemen quitted Barton together .-- They were to go immediately to Delaford , that Edward might have some personal knowledge of his future home , and assist his patron and friend in deciding on what improvements were needed to it ; and from thence , after staying there a couple of nights , he was to proceed on his journey to town .
CHAPTER 50
After a proper resistance on the part of Mrs . Ferrars , just so violent and so steady as to preserve her from that reproach which she always seemed fearful of incurring , the reproach of being too amiable , Edward was admitted to her presence , and pronounced to be again her son .
Her family had of late been exceedingly fluctuating .
For many years of her life she had had two sons ; but the crime and annihilation of Edward a few weeks ago , had robbed her of one ; the similar annihilation of Robert had left her for a fortnight without any ; and now , by the resuscitation of Edward , she had one again .
In spite of his being allowed once more to live , however , he did not feel the continuance of his existence secure , till he had revealed his present engagement ; for the publication of that circumstance , he feared , might give a sudden turn to his constitution , and carry him off as rapidly as before .
With apprehensive caution therefore it was revealed , and he was listened to with unexpected calmness .
Mrs . Ferrars at first reasonably endeavoured to dissuade him from marrying Miss Dashwood , by every argument in her power ;-- told him , that in Miss Morton he would have a woman of higher rank and larger fortune ;-- and enforced the assertion , by observing that Miss Morton was the daughter of a nobleman with thirty thousand pounds , while Miss Dashwood was only the daughter of a private gentleman with no more than THREE ; but when she found that , though perfectly admitting the truth of her representation , he was by no means inclined to be guided by it , she judged it wisest , from the experience of the past , to submit -- and therefore , after such an ungracious delay as she owed to her own dignity , and as served to prevent every suspicion of good - will , she issued her decree of consent to the marriage of Edward and Elinor .
What she would engage to do towards augmenting their income was next to be considered ; and here it plainly appeared , that though Edward was now her only son , he was by no means her eldest ; for while Robert was inevitably endowed with a thousand pounds a - year , not the smallest objection was made against Edward ' s taking orders for the sake of two hundred and fifty at the utmost ; nor was anything promised either for the present or in future , beyond the ten thousand pounds , which had been given with Fanny .
It was as much , however , as was desired , and more than was expected , by Edward and Elinor ; and Mrs . Ferrars herself , by her shuffling excuses , seemed the only person surprised at her not giving more .
With an income quite sufficient to their wants thus secured to them , they had nothing to wait for after Edward was in possession of the living , but the readiness of the house , to which Colonel Brandon , with an eager desire for the accommodation of Elinor , was making considerable improvements ; and after waiting some time for their completion , after experiencing , as usual , a thousand disappointments and delays from the unaccountable dilatoriness of the workmen , Elinor , as usual , broke through the first positive resolution of not marrying till every thing was ready , and the ceremony took place in Barton church early in the autumn .
The first month after their marriage was spent with their friend at the Mansion - house ; from whence they could superintend the progress of the Parsonage , and direct every thing as they liked on the spot ;-- could chuse papers , project shrubberies , and invent a sweep .
Mrs . Jennings ' s prophecies , though rather jumbled together , were chiefly fulfilled ; for she was able to visit Edward and his wife in their Parsonage by Michaelmas , and she found in Elinor and her husband , as she really believed , one of the happiest couples in the world .
They had in fact nothing to wish for , but the marriage of Colonel Brandon and Marianne , and rather better pasturage for their cows .
They were visited on their first settling by almost all their relations and friends .
Mrs . Ferrars came to inspect the happiness which she was almost ashamed of having authorised ; and even the Dashwoods were at the expense of a journey from Sussex to do them honour .
" I will not say that I am disappointed , my dear sister ," said John , as they were walking together one morning before the gates of Delaford House , " THAT would be saying too much , for certainly you have been one of the most fortunate young women in the world , as it is .
But , I confess , it would give me great pleasure to call Colonel Brandon brother .
His property here , his place , his house , every thing is in such respectable and excellent condition !-- and his woods !-- I have not seen such timber any where in Dorsetshire , as there is now standing in Delaford Hanger !-- And though , perhaps , Marianne may not seem exactly the person to attract him -- yet I think it would altogether be advisable for you to have them now frequently staying with you , for as Colonel Brandon seems a great deal at home , nobody can tell what may happen -- for , when people are much thrown together , and see little of anybody else -- and it will always be in your power to set her off to advantage , and so forth ;-- in short , you may as well give her a chance -- You understand me ."
--
But though Mrs . Ferrars DID come to see them , and always treated them with the make - believe of decent affection , they were never insulted by her real favour and preference .
THAT was due to the folly of Robert , and the cunning of his wife ; and it was earned by them before many months had passed away .
The selfish sagacity of the latter , which had at first drawn Robert into the scrape , was the principal instrument of his deliverance from it ; for her respectful humility , assiduous attentions , and endless flatteries , as soon as the smallest opening was given for their exercise , reconciled Mrs . Ferrars to his choice , and re - established him completely in her favour .
The whole of Lucy ' s behaviour in the affair , and the prosperity which crowned it , therefore , may be held forth as a most encouraging instance of what an earnest , an unceasing attention to self - interest , however its progress may be apparently obstructed , will do in securing every advantage of fortune , with no other sacrifice than that of time and conscience .
When Robert first sought her acquaintance , and privately visited her in Bartlett ' s Buildings , it was only with the view imputed to him by his brother .
He merely meant to persuade her to give up the engagement ; and as there could be nothing to overcome but the affection of both , he naturally expected that one or two interviews would settle the matter .
In that point , however , and that only , he erred ;-- for though Lucy soon gave him hopes that his eloquence would convince her in TIME , another visit , another conversation , was always wanted to produce this conviction .
Some doubts always lingered in her mind when they parted , which could only be removed by another half hour ' s discourse with himself .
His attendance was by this means secured , and the rest followed in course .
Instead of talking of Edward , they came gradually to talk only of Robert ,-- a subject on which he had always more to say than on any other , and in which she soon betrayed an interest even equal to his own ; and in short , it became speedily evident to both , that he had entirely supplanted his brother .
He was proud of his conquest , proud of tricking Edward , and very proud of marrying privately without his mother ' s consent .
What immediately followed is known .
They passed some months in great happiness at Dawlish ; for she had many relations and old acquaintances to cut -- and he drew several plans for magnificent cottages ;-- and from thence returning to town , procured the forgiveness of Mrs . Ferrars , by the simple expedient of asking it , which , at Lucy ' s instigation , was adopted .
The forgiveness , at first , indeed , as was reasonable , comprehended only Robert ; and Lucy , who had owed his mother no duty and therefore could have transgressed none , still remained some weeks longer unpardoned .
But perseverance in humility of conduct and messages , in self - condemnation for Robert ' s offence , and gratitude for the unkindness she was treated with , procured her in time the haughty notice which overcame her by its graciousness , and led soon afterwards , by rapid degrees , to the highest state of affection and influence .
Lucy became as necessary to Mrs . Ferrars , as either Robert or Fanny ; and while Edward was never cordially forgiven for having once intended to marry her , and Elinor , though superior to her in fortune and birth , was spoken of as an intruder , SHE was in every thing considered , and always openly acknowledged , to be a favourite child .
They settled in town , received very liberal assistance from Mrs . Ferrars , were on the best terms imaginable with the Dashwoods ; and setting aside the jealousies and ill - will continually subsisting between Fanny and Lucy , in which their husbands of course took a part , as well as the frequent domestic disagreements between Robert and Lucy themselves , nothing could exceed the harmony in which they all lived together .
What Edward had done to forfeit the right of eldest son , might have puzzled many people to find out ; and what Robert had done to succeed to it , might have puzzled them still more .
It was an arrangement , however , justified in its effects , if not in its cause ; for nothing ever appeared in Robert ' s style of living or of talking to give a suspicion of his regretting the extent of his income , as either leaving his brother too little , or bringing himself too much ;-- and if Edward might be judged from the ready discharge of his duties in every particular , from an increasing attachment to his wife and his home , and from the regular cheerfulness of his spirits , he might be supposed no less contented with his lot , no less free from every wish of an exchange .
Elinor ' s marriage divided her as little from her family as could well be contrived , without rendering the cottage at Barton entirely useless , for her mother and sisters spent much more than half their time with her .
Mrs . Dashwood was acting on motives of policy as well as pleasure in the frequency of her visits at Delaford ; for her wish of bringing Marianne and Colonel Brandon together was hardly less earnest , though rather more liberal than what John had expressed .
It was now her darling object .
Precious as was the company of her daughter to her , she desired nothing so much as to give up its constant enjoyment to her valued friend ; and to see Marianne settled at the mansion - house was equally the wish of Edward and Elinor .
They each felt his sorrows , and their own obligations , and Marianne , by general consent , was to be the reward of all .
With such a confederacy against her -- with a knowledge so intimate of his goodness -- with a conviction of his fond attachment to herself , which at last , though long after it was observable to everybody else -- burst on her -- what could she do ?
Marianne Dashwood was born to an extraordinary fate .
She was born to discover the falsehood of her own opinions , and to counteract , by her conduct , her most favourite maxims .
She was born to overcome an affection formed so late in life as at seventeen , and with no sentiment superior to strong esteem and lively friendship , voluntarily to give her hand to another !-- and THAT other , a man who had suffered no less than herself under the event of a former attachment , whom , two years before , she had considered too old to be married ,-- and who still sought the constitutional safeguard of a flannel waistcoat !
But so it was .
Instead of falling a sacrifice to an irresistible passion , as once she had fondly flattered herself with expecting ,-- instead of remaining even for ever with her mother , and finding her only pleasures in retirement and study , as afterwards in her more calm and sober judgment she had determined on ,-- she found herself at nineteen , submitting to new attachments , entering on new duties , placed in a new home , a wife , the mistress of a family , and the patroness of a village .
Colonel Brandon was now as happy , as all those who best loved him , believed he deserved to be ;-- in Marianne he was consoled for every past affliction ;-- her regard and her society restored his mind to animation , and his spirits to cheerfulness ; and that Marianne found her own happiness in forming his , was equally the persuasion and delight of each observing friend .
Marianne could never love by halves ; and her whole heart became , in time , as much devoted to her husband , as it had once been to Willoughby .
Willoughby could not hear of her marriage without a pang ; and his punishment was soon afterwards complete in the voluntary forgiveness of Mrs . Smith , who , by stating his marriage with a woman of character , as the source of her clemency , gave him reason for believing that had he behaved with honour towards Marianne , he might at once have been happy and rich .
That his repentance of misconduct , which thus brought its own punishment , was sincere , need not be doubted ;-- nor that he long thought of Colonel Brandon with envy , and of Marianne with regret .
But that he was for ever inconsolable , that he fled from society , or contracted an habitual gloom of temper , or died of a broken heart , must not be depended on -- for he did neither .
He lived to exert , and frequently to enjoy himself .
His wife was not always out of humour , nor his home always uncomfortable ; and in his breed of horses and dogs , and in sporting of every kind , he found no inconsiderable degree of domestic felicity .
For Marianne , however -- in spite of his incivility in surviving her loss -- he always retained that decided regard which interested him in every thing that befell her , and made her his secret standard of perfection in woman ;-- and many a rising beauty would be slighted by him in after - days as bearing no comparison with Mrs . Brandon .
Mrs . Dashwood was prudent enough to remain at the cottage , without attempting a removal to Delaford ; and fortunately for Sir John and Mrs . Jennings , when Marianne was taken from them , Margaret had reached an age highly suitable for dancing , and not very ineligible for being supposed to have a lover .
Between Barton and Delaford , there was that constant communication which strong family affection would naturally dictate ;-- and among the merits and the happiness of Elinor and Marianne , let it not be ranked as the least considerable , that though sisters , and living almost within sight of each other , they could live without disagreement between themselves , or producing coolness between their husbands .
THE END
[ The King James Bible ]
The Old Testament of the King James Bible
The First Book of Moses : Called Genesis
1 : 1 In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth .
1 : 2 And the earth was without form , and void ; and darkness was upon the face of the deep .
And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters .
1 : 3 And God said , Let there be light : and there was light .
1 : 4 And God saw the light , that it was good : and God divided the light from the darkness .
1 : 5 And God called the light Day , and the darkness he called Night .
And the evening and the morning were the first day .
1 : 6 And God said , Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters , and let it divide the waters from the waters .
1 : 7 And God made the firmament , and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament : and it was so .
1 : 8 And God called the firmament Heaven .
And the evening and the morning were the second day .
1 : 9 And God said , Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place , and let the dry land appear : and it was so .
1 : 10 And God called the dry land Earth ; and the gathering together of the waters called he Seas : and God saw that it was good .
1 : 11 And God said , Let the earth bring forth grass , the herb yielding seed , and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind , whose seed is in itself , upon the earth : and it was so .
1 : 12 And the earth brought forth grass , and herb yielding seed after his kind , and the tree yielding fruit , whose seed was in itself , after his kind : and God saw that it was good .
1 : 13 And the evening and the morning were the third day .
1 : 14 And God said , Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night ; and let them be for signs , and for seasons , and for days , and years : 1 : 15 And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth : and it was so .
1 : 16 And God made two great lights ; the greater light to rule the day , and the lesser light to rule the night : he made the stars also .
1 : 17 And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth , 1 : 18 And to rule over the day and over the night , and to divide the light from the darkness : and God saw that it was good .
1 : 19 And the evening and the morning were the fourth day .
1 : 20 And God said , Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life , and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven .
1 : 21 And God created great whales , and every living creature that moveth , which the waters brought forth abundantly , after their kind , and every winged fowl after his kind : and God saw that it was good .
1 : 22 And God blessed them , saying , Be fruitful , and multiply , and fill the waters in the seas , and let fowl multiply in the earth .
1 : 23 And the evening and the morning were the fifth day .
1 : 24 And God said , Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind , cattle , and creeping thing , and beast of the earth after his kind : and it was so .
1 : 25 And God made the beast of the earth after his kind , and cattle after their kind , and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind : and God saw that it was good .
1 : 26 And God said , Let us make man in our image , after our likeness : and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea , and over the fowl of the air , and over the cattle , and over all the earth , and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth .
1 : 27 So God created man in his own image , in the image of God created he him ; male and female created he them .
1 : 28 And God blessed them , and God said unto them , Be fruitful , and multiply , and replenish the earth , and subdue it : and have dominion over the fish of the sea , and over the fowl of the air , and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth .
1 : 29 And God said , Behold , I have given you every herb bearing seed , which is upon the face of all the earth , and every tree , in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed ; to you it shall be for meat .
1 : 30 And to every beast of the earth , and to every fowl of the air , and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth , wherein there is life , I have given every green herb for meat : and it was so .
1 : 31 And God saw every thing that he had made , and , behold , it was very good .
And the evening and the morning were the sixth day .
2 : 1 Thus the heavens and the earth were finished , and all the host of them .
2 : 2 And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made ; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made .
2 : 3 And God blessed the seventh day , and sanctified it : because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made .
2 : 4 These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created , in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the heavens , 2 : 5 And every plant of the field before it was in the earth , and every herb of the field before it grew : for the LORD God had not caused it to rain upon the earth , and there was not a man to till the ground .
2 : 6 But there went up a mist from the earth , and watered the whole face of the ground .
2 : 7 And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground , and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life ; and man became a living soul .
2 : 8 And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden ; and there he put the man whom he had formed .
2 : 9 And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight , and good for food ; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden , and the tree of knowledge of good and evil .
2 : 10 And a river went out of Eden to water the garden ; and from thence it was parted , and became into four heads .
2 : 11 The name of the first is Pison : that is it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah , where there is gold ; 2 : 12 And the gold of that land is good : there is bdellium and the onyx stone .
2 : 13 And the name of the second river is Gihon : the same is it that compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia .
2 : 14 And the name of the third river is Hiddekel : that is it which goeth toward the east of Assyria .
And the fourth river is Euphrates .
2 : 15 And the LORD God took the man , and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it .
2 : 16 And the LORD God commanded the man , saying , Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat : 2 : 17 But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil , thou shalt not eat of it : for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die .
2 : 18 And the LORD God said , It is not good that the man should be alone ; I will make him an help meet for him .
2 : 19 And out of the ground the LORD God formed every beast of the field , and every fowl of the air ; and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them : and whatsoever Adam called every living creature , that was the name thereof .
2 : 20 And Adam gave names to all cattle , and to the fowl of the air , and to every beast of the field ; but for Adam there was not found an help meet for him .
2 : 21 And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam , and he slept : and he took one of his ribs , and closed up the flesh instead thereof ; 2 : 22 And the rib , which the LORD God had taken from man , made he a woman , and brought her unto the man .
2 : 23 And Adam said , This is now bone of my bones , and flesh of my flesh : she shall be called Woman , because she was taken out of Man .
2 : 24 Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother , and shall cleave unto his wife : and they shall be one flesh .
2 : 25 And they were both naked , the man and his wife , and were not ashamed .
3 : 1 Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the LORD God had made .
And he said unto the woman , Yea , hath God said , Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden ?
3 : 2 And the woman said unto the serpent , We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden : 3 : 3 But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden , God hath said , Ye shall not eat of it , neither shall ye touch it , lest ye die .
3 : 4 And the serpent said unto the woman , Ye shall not surely die : 3 : 5 For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof , then your eyes shall be opened , and ye shall be as gods , knowing good and evil .
3 : 6 And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food , and that it was pleasant to the eyes , and a tree to be desired to make one wise , she took of the fruit thereof , and did eat , and gave also unto her husband with her ; and he did eat .
3 : 7 And the eyes of them both were opened , and they knew that they were naked ; and they sewed fig leaves together , and made themselves aprons .
3 : 8 And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool of the day : and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden .
3 : 9 And the LORD God called unto Adam , and said unto him , Where art thou ?
3 : 10 And he said , I heard thy voice in the garden , and I was afraid , because I was naked ; and I hid myself .
3 : 11 And he said , Who told thee that thou wast naked ?
Hast thou eaten of the tree , whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat ?
3 : 12 And the man said , The woman whom thou gavest to be with me , she gave me of the tree , and I did eat .
3 : 13 And the LORD God said unto the woman , What is this that thou hast done ?
And the woman said , The serpent beguiled me , and I did eat .
3 : 14 And the LORD God said unto the serpent , Because thou hast done this , thou art cursed above all cattle , and above every beast of the field ; upon thy belly shalt thou go , and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life : 3 : 15 And I will put enmity between thee and the woman , and between thy seed and her seed ; it shall bruise thy head , and thou shalt bruise his heel .
3 : 16 Unto the woman he said , I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception ; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children ; and thy desire shall be to thy husband , and he shall rule over thee .
3 : 17 And unto Adam he said , Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife , and hast eaten of the tree , of which I commanded thee , saying , Thou shalt not eat of it : cursed is the ground for thy sake ; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life ; 3 : 18 Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee ; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field ; 3 : 19 In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread , till thou return unto the ground ; for out of it wast thou taken : for dust thou art , and unto dust shalt thou return .
3 : 20 And Adam called his wife ' s name Eve ; because she was the mother of all living .
3 : 21 Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats of skins , and clothed them .
3 : 22 And the LORD God said , Behold , the man is become as one of us , to know good and evil : and now , lest he put forth his hand , and take also of the tree of life , and eat , and live for ever : 3 : 23 Therefore the LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden , to till the ground from whence he was taken .
3 : 24 So he drove out the man ; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims , and a flaming sword which turned every way , to keep the way of the tree of life .
4 : 1 And Adam knew Eve his wife ; and she conceived , and bare Cain , and said , I have gotten a man from the LORD .
4 : 2 And she again bare his brother Abel .
And Abel was a keeper of sheep , but Cain was a tiller of the ground .
4 : 3 And in process of time it came to pass , that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD .
4 : 4 And Abel , he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof .
And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering : 4 : 5 But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect .
And Cain was very wroth , and his countenance fell .
4 : 6 And the LORD said unto Cain , Why art thou wroth ?
and why is thy countenance fallen ?
4 : 7 If thou doest well , shalt thou not be accepted ?
and if thou doest not well , sin lieth at the door .
And unto thee shall be his desire , and thou shalt rule over him .
4 : 8 And Cain talked with Abel his brother : and it came to pass , when they were in the field , that Cain rose up against Abel his brother , and slew him .
4 : 9 And the LORD said unto Cain , Where is Abel thy brother ?
And he said , I know not : Am I my brother ' s keeper ?
4 : 10 And he said , What hast thou done ?
the voice of thy brother ' s blood crieth unto me from the ground .
4 : 11 And now art thou cursed from the earth , which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother ' s blood from thy hand ; 4 : 12 When thou tillest the ground , it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength ; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth .
4 : 13 And Cain said unto the LORD , My punishment is greater than I can bear .
4 : 14 Behold , thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth ; and from thy face shall I be hid ; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth ; and it shall come to pass , that every one that findeth me shall slay me .
4 : 15 And the LORD said unto him , Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain , vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold .
And the LORD set a mark upon Cain , lest any finding him should kill him .
4 : 16 And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD , and dwelt in the land of Nod , on the east of Eden .
4 : 17 And Cain knew his wife ; and she conceived , and bare Enoch : and he builded a city , and called the name of the city , after the name of his son , Enoch .
4 : 18 And unto Enoch was born Irad : and Irad begat Mehujael : and Mehujael begat Methusael : and Methusael begat Lamech .
4 : 19 And Lamech took unto him two wives : the name of the one was Adah , and the name of the other Zillah .
4 : 20 And Adah bare Jabal : he was the father of such as dwell in tents , and of such as have cattle .
4 : 21 And his brother ' s name was Jubal : he was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ .
4 : 22 And Zillah , she also bare Tubalcain , an instructer of every artificer in brass and iron : and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah .
4 : 23 And Lamech said unto his wives , Adah and Zillah , Hear my voice ; ye wives of Lamech , hearken unto my speech : for I have slain a man to my wounding , and a young man to my hurt .
4 : 24 If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold , truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold .
4 : 25 And Adam knew his wife again ; and she bare a son , and called his name Seth : For God , said she , hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel , whom Cain slew .
4 : 26 And to Seth , to him also there was born a son ; and he called his name Enos : then began men to call upon the name of the LORD .
5 : 1 This is the book of the generations of Adam .
In the day that God created man , in the likeness of God made he him ; 5 : 2 Male and female created he them ; and blessed them , and called their name Adam , in the day when they were created .
5 : 3 And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years , and begat a son in his own likeness , and after his image ; and called his name Seth : 5 : 4 And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years : and he begat sons and daughters : 5 : 5 And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years : and he died .
5 : 6 And Seth lived an hundred and five years , and begat Enos : 5 : 7 And Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years , and begat sons and daughters : 5 : 8 And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years : and he died .
5 : 9 And Enos lived ninety years , and begat Cainan : 5 : 10 And Enos lived after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years , and begat sons and daughters : 5 : 11 And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years : and he died .
5 : 12 And Cainan lived seventy years and begat Mahalaleel : 5 : 13 And Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years , and begat sons and daughters : 5 : 14 And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years : and he died .
5 : 15 And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years , and begat Jared : 5 : 16 And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years , and begat sons and daughters : 5 : 17 And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years : and he died .
5 : 18 And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years , and he begat Enoch : 5 : 19 And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years , and begat sons and daughters : 5 : 20 And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years : and he died .
5 : 21 And Enoch lived sixty and five years , and begat Methuselah : 5 : 22 And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years , and begat sons and daughters : 5 : 23 And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years : 5 : 24 And Enoch walked with God : and he was not ; for God took him .
5 : 25 And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years , and begat Lamech .
5 : 26 And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years , and begat sons and daughters : 5 : 27 And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years : and he died .
5 : 28 And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years , and begat a son : 5 : 29 And he called his name Noah , saying , This same shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands , because of the ground which the LORD hath cursed .
5 : 30 And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five years , and begat sons and daughters : 5 : 31 And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy and seven years : and he died .
5 : 32 And Noah was five hundred years old : and Noah begat Shem , Ham , and Japheth .
6 : 1 And it came to pass , when men began to multiply on the face of the earth , and daughters were born unto them , 6 : 2 That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair ; and they took them wives of all which they chose .
6 : 3 And the LORD said , My spirit shall not always strive with man , for that he also is flesh : yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years .
6 : 4 There were giants in the earth in those days ; and also after that , when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men , and they bare children to them , the same became mighty men which were of old , men of renown .
6 : 5 And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth , and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually .
6 : 6 And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth , and it grieved him at his heart .
6 : 7 And the LORD said , I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth ; both man , and beast , and the creeping thing , and the fowls of the air ; for it repenteth me that I have made them .
6 : 8 But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD .
6 : 9 These are the generations of Noah : Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations , and Noah walked with God .
6 : 10 And Noah begat three sons , Shem , Ham , and Japheth .
6 : 11 The earth also was corrupt before God , and the earth was filled with violence .
6 : 12 And God looked upon the earth , and , behold , it was corrupt ; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth .
6 : 13 And God said unto Noah , The end of all flesh is come before me ; for the earth is filled with violence through them ; and , behold , I will destroy them with the earth .
6 : 14 Make thee an ark of gopher wood ; rooms shalt thou make in the ark , and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch .
6 : 15 And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of : The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits , the breadth of it fifty cubits , and the height of it thirty cubits .
6 : 16 A window shalt thou make to the ark , and in a cubit shalt thou finish it above ; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof ; with lower , second , and third stories shalt thou make it .
6 : 17 And , behold , I , even I , do bring a flood of waters upon the earth , to destroy all flesh , wherein is the breath of life , from under heaven ; and every thing that is in the earth shall die .
6 : 18 But with thee will I establish my covenant ; and thou shalt come into the ark , thou , and thy sons , and thy wife , and thy sons ' wives with thee .
6 : 19 And of every living thing of all flesh , two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark , to keep them alive with thee ; they shall be male and female .
6 : 20 Of fowls after their kind , and of cattle after their kind , of every creeping thing of the earth after his kind , two of every sort shall come unto thee , to keep them alive .
6 : 21 And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten , and thou shalt gather it to thee ; and it shall be for food for thee , and for them .
6 : 22 Thus did Noah ; according to all that God commanded him , so did he .
7 : 1 And the LORD said unto Noah , Come thou and all thy house into the ark ; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation .
7 : 2 Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens , the male and his female : and of beasts that are not clean by two , the male and his female .
7 : 3 Of fowls also of the air by sevens , the male and the female ; to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth .
7 : 4 For yet seven days , and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights ; and every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth .
7 : 5 And Noah did according unto all that the LORD commanded him .
7 : 6 And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth .
7 : 7 And Noah went in , and his sons , and his wife , and his sons ' wives with him , into the ark , because of the waters of the flood .
7 : 8 Of clean beasts , and of beasts that are not clean , and of fowls , and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth , 7 : 9 There went in two and two unto Noah into the ark , the male and the female , as God had commanded Noah .
7 : 10 And it came to pass after seven days , that the waters of the flood were upon the earth .
7 : 11 In the six hundredth year of Noah ' s life , in the second month , the seventeenth day of the month , the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up , and the windows of heaven were opened .
7 : 12 And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights .
7 : 13 In the selfsame day entered Noah , and Shem , and Ham , and Japheth , the sons of Noah , and Noah ' s wife , and the three wives of his sons with them , into the ark ; 7 : 14 They , and every beast after his kind , and all the cattle after their kind , and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind , and every fowl after his kind , every bird of every sort .
7 : 15 And they went in unto Noah into the ark , two and two of all flesh , wherein is the breath of life .
7 : 16 And they that went in , went in male and female of all flesh , as God had commanded him : and the LORD shut him in .
7 : 17 And the flood was forty days upon the earth ; and the waters increased , and bare up the ark , and it was lift up above the earth .
7 : 18 And the waters prevailed , and were increased greatly upon the earth ; and the ark went upon the face of the waters .
7 : 19 And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth ; and all the high hills , that were under the whole heaven , were covered .
7 : 20 Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail ; and the mountains were covered .
7 : 21 And all flesh died that moved upon the earth , both of fowl , and of cattle , and of beast , and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth , and every man : 7 : 22 All in whose nostrils was the breath of life , of all that was in the dry land , died .
7 : 23 And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face of the ground , both man , and cattle , and the creeping things , and the fowl of the heaven ; and they were destroyed from the earth : and Noah only remained alive , and they that were with him in the ark .
7 : 24 And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty days .
8 : 1 And God remembered Noah , and every living thing , and all the cattle that was with him in the ark : and God made a wind to pass over the earth , and the waters asswaged ; 8 : 2 The fountains also of the deep and the windows of heaven were stopped , and the rain from heaven was restrained ; 8 : 3 And the waters returned from off the earth continually : and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were abated .
8 : 4 And the ark rested in the seventh month , on the seventeenth day of the month , upon the mountains of Ararat .
8 : 5 And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month : in the tenth month , on the first day of the month , were the tops of the mountains seen .
8 : 6 And it came to pass at the end of forty days , that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made : 8 : 7 And he sent forth a raven , which went forth to and fro , until the waters were dried up from off the earth .
8 : 8 Also he sent forth a dove from him , to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground ; 8 : 9 But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot , and she returned unto him into the ark , for the waters were on the face of the whole earth : then he put forth his hand , and took her , and pulled her in unto him into the ark .
8 : 10 And he stayed yet other seven days ; and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark ; 8 : 11 And the dove came in to him in the evening ; and , lo , in her mouth was an olive leaf pluckt off : so Noah knew that the waters were abated from off the earth .
8 : 12 And he stayed yet other seven days ; and sent forth the dove ; which returned not again unto him any more .
8 : 13 And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year , in the first month , the first day of the month , the waters were dried up from off the earth : and Noah removed the covering of the ark , and looked , and , behold , the face of the ground was dry .
8 : 14 And in the second month , on the seven and twentieth day of the month , was the earth dried .
8 : 15 And God spake unto Noah , saying , 8 : 16 Go forth of the ark , thou , and thy wife , and thy sons , and thy sons ' wives with thee .
8 : 17 Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee , of all flesh , both of fowl , and of cattle , and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth ; that they may breed abundantly in the earth , and be fruitful , and multiply upon the earth .
8 : 18 And Noah went forth , and his sons , and his wife , and his sons ' wives with him : 8 : 19 Every beast , every creeping thing , and every fowl , and whatsoever creepeth upon the earth , after their kinds , went forth out of the ark .
8 : 20 And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD ; and took of every clean beast , and of every clean fowl , and offered burnt offerings on the altar .
8 : 21 And the LORD smelled a sweet savour ; and the LORD said in his heart , I will not again curse the ground any more for man ' s sake ; for the imagination of man ' s heart is evil from his youth ; neither will I again smite any more every thing living , as I have done .
8 : 22 While the earth remaineth , seedtime and harvest , and cold and heat , and summer and winter , and day and night shall not cease .
9 : 1 And God blessed Noah and his sons , and said unto them , Be fruitful , and multiply , and replenish the earth .
9 : 2 And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth , and upon every fowl of the air , upon all that moveth upon the earth , and upon all the fishes of the sea ; into your hand are they delivered .
9 : 3 Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you ; even as the green herb have I given you all things .
9 : 4 But flesh with the life thereof , which is the blood thereof , shall ye not eat .
9 : 5 And surely your blood of your lives will I require ; at the hand of every beast will I require it , and at the hand of man ; at the hand of every man ' s brother will I require the life of man .
9 : 6 Whoso sheddeth man ' s blood , by man shall his blood be shed : for in the image of God made he man .
9 : 7 And you , be ye fruitful , and multiply ; bring forth abundantly in the earth , and multiply therein .
9 : 8 And God spake unto Noah , and to his sons with him , saying , 9 : 9 And I , behold , I establish my covenant with you , and with your seed after you ; 9 : 10 And with every living creature that is with you , of the fowl , of the cattle , and of every beast of the earth with you ; from all that go out of the ark , to every beast of the earth .
9 : 11 And I will establish my covenant with you , neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood ; neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth .
9 : 12 And God said , This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you , for perpetual generations : 9 : 13 I do set my bow in the cloud , and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth .
9 : 14 And it shall come to pass , when I bring a cloud over the earth , that the bow shall be seen in the cloud : 9 : 15 And I will remember my covenant , which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh ; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh .
9 : 16 And the bow shall be in the cloud ; and I will look upon it , that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth .
9 : 17 And God said unto Noah , This is the token of the covenant , which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth .
9 : 18 And the sons of Noah , that went forth of the ark , were Shem , and Ham , and Japheth : and Ham is the father of Canaan .
9 : 19 These are the three sons of Noah : and of them was the whole earth overspread .
9 : 20 And Noah began to be an husbandman , and he planted a vineyard : 9 : 21 And he drank of the wine , and was drunken ; and he was uncovered within his tent .
9 : 22 And Ham , the father of Canaan , saw the nakedness of his father , and told his two brethren without .
9 : 23 And Shem and Japheth took a garment , and laid it upon both their shoulders , and went backward , and covered the nakedness of their father ; and their faces were backward , and they saw not their father ' s nakedness .
9 : 24 And Noah awoke from his wine , and knew what his younger son had done unto him .
9 : 25 And he said , Cursed be Canaan ; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren .
9 : 26 And he said , Blessed be the LORD God of Shem ; and Canaan shall be his servant .
9 : 27 God shall enlarge Japheth , and he shall dwell in the tents of Shem ; and Canaan shall be his servant .
9 : 28 And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years .
9 : 29 And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years : and he died .
10 : 1 Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah , Shem , Ham , and Japheth : and unto them were sons born after the flood .
10 : 2 The sons of Japheth ; Gomer , and Magog , and Madai , and Javan , and Tubal , and Meshech , and Tiras .
10 : 3 And the sons of Gomer ; Ashkenaz , and Riphath , and Togarmah .
10 : 4 And the sons of Javan ; Elishah , and Tarshish , Kittim , and Dodanim .
10 : 5 By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands ; every one after his tongue , after their families , in their nations .
10 : 6 And the sons of Ham ; Cush , and Mizraim , and Phut , and Canaan .
10 : 7 And the sons of Cush ; Seba , and Havilah , and Sabtah , and Raamah , and Sabtechah : and the sons of Raamah ; Sheba , and Dedan .
10 : 8 And Cush begat Nimrod : he began to be a mighty one in the earth .
10 : 9 He was a mighty hunter before the LORD : wherefore it is said , Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD .
10 : 10 And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel , and Erech , and Accad , and Calneh , in the land of Shinar .
10 : 11 Out of that land went forth Asshur , and builded Nineveh , and the city Rehoboth , and Calah , 10 : 12 And Resen between Nineveh and Calah : the same is a great city .
10 : 13 And Mizraim begat Ludim , and Anamim , and Lehabim , and Naphtuhim , 10 : 14 And Pathrusim , and Casluhim , ( out of whom came Philistim ,) and Caphtorim .
10 : 15 And Canaan begat Sidon his first born , and Heth , 10 : 16 And the Jebusite , and the Amorite , and the Girgasite , 10 : 17 And the Hivite , and the Arkite , and the Sinite , 10 : 18 And the Arvadite , and the Zemarite , and the Hamathite : and afterward were the families of the Canaanites spread abroad .
10 : 19 And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon , as thou comest to Gerar , unto Gaza ; as thou goest , unto Sodom , and Gomorrah , and Admah , and Zeboim , even unto Lasha .
10 : 20 These are the sons of Ham , after their families , after their tongues , in their countries , and in their nations .
10 : 21 Unto Shem also , the father of all the children of Eber , the brother of Japheth the elder , even to him were children born .
10 : 22 The children of Shem ; Elam , and Asshur , and Arphaxad , and Lud , and Aram .
10 : 23 And the children of Aram ; Uz , and Hul , and Gether , and Mash .
10 : 24 And Arphaxad begat Salah ; and Salah begat Eber .
10 : 25 And unto Eber were born two sons : the name of one was Peleg ; for in his days was the earth divided ; and his brother ' s name was Joktan .
10 : 26 And Joktan begat Almodad , and Sheleph , and Hazarmaveth , and Jerah , 10 : 27 And Hadoram , and Uzal , and Diklah , 10 : 28 And Obal , and Abimael , and Sheba , 10 : 29 And Ophir , and Havilah , and Jobab : all these were the sons of Joktan .
10 : 30 And their dwelling was from Mesha , as thou goest unto Sephar a mount of the east .
10 : 31 These are the sons of Shem , after their families , after their tongues , in their lands , after their nations .
10 : 32 These are the families of the sons of Noah , after their generations , in their nations : and by these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood .
11 : 1 And the whole earth was of one language , and of one speech .
11 : 2 And it came to pass , as they journeyed from the east , that they found a plain in the land of Shinar ; and they dwelt there .
11 : 3 And they said one to another , Go to , let us make brick , and burn them thoroughly .
And they had brick for stone , and slime had they for morter .
11 : 4 And they said , Go to , let us build us a city and a tower , whose top may reach unto heaven ; and let us make us a name , lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth .
11 : 5 And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower , which the children of men builded .
11 : 6 And the LORD said , Behold , the people is one , and they have all one language ; and this they begin to do : and now nothing will be restrained from them , which they have imagined to do .
11 : 7 Go to , let us go down , and there confound their language , that they may not understand one another ' s speech .
11 : 8 So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth : and they left off to build the city .
11 : 9 Therefore is the name of it called Babel ; because the LORD did there confound the language of all the earth : and from thence did the LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth .
11 : 10 These are the generations of Shem : Shem was an hundred years old , and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood : 11 : 11 And Shem lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years , and begat sons and daughters .
11 : 12 And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years , and begat Salah : 11 : 13 And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years , and begat sons and daughters .
11 : 14 And Salah lived thirty years , and begat Eber : 11 : 15 And Salah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years , and begat sons and daughters .
11 : 16 And Eber lived four and thirty years , and begat Peleg : 11 : 17 And Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years , and begat sons and daughters .
11 : 18 And Peleg lived thirty years , and begat Reu : 11 : 19 And Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years , and begat sons and daughters .
11 : 20 And Reu lived two and thirty years , and begat Serug : 11 : 21 And Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years , and begat sons and daughters .
11 : 22 And Serug lived thirty years , and begat Nahor : 11 : 23 And Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years , and begat sons and daughters .
11 : 24 And Nahor lived nine and twenty years , and begat Terah : 11 : 25 And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years , and begat sons and daughters .
11 : 26 And Terah lived seventy years , and begat Abram , Nahor , and Haran .
11 : 27 Now these are the generations of Terah : Terah begat Abram , Nahor , and Haran ; and Haran begat Lot .
11 : 28 And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity , in Ur of the Chaldees .
11 : 29 And Abram and Nahor took them wives : the name of Abram ' s wife was Sarai ; and the name of Nahor ' s wife , Milcah , the daughter of Haran , the father of Milcah , and the father of Iscah .
11 : 30 But Sarai was barren ; she had no child .
11 : 31 And Terah took Abram his son , and Lot the son of Haran his son ' s son , and Sarai his daughter in law , his son Abram ' s wife ; and they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees , to go into the land of Canaan ; and they came unto Haran , and dwelt there .
11 : 32 And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years : and Terah died in Haran .
12 : 1 Now the LORD had said unto Abram , Get thee out of thy country , and from thy kindred , and from thy father ' s house , unto a land that I will shew thee : 12 : 2 And I will make of thee a great nation , and I will bless thee , and make thy name great ; and thou shalt be a blessing : 12 : 3 And I will bless them that bless thee , and curse him that curseth thee : and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed .
12 : 4 So Abram departed , as the LORD had spoken unto him ; and Lot went with him : and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran .
12 : 5 And Abram took Sarai his wife , and Lot his brother ' s son , and all their substance that they had gathered , and the souls that they had gotten in Haran ; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan ; and into the land of Canaan they came .
12 : 6 And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem , unto the plain of Moreh .
And the Canaanite was then in the land .
12 : 7 And the LORD appeared unto Abram , and said , Unto thy seed will I give this land : and there builded he an altar unto the LORD , who appeared unto him .
12 : 8 And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel , and pitched his tent , having Bethel on the west , and Hai on the east : and there he builded an altar unto the LORD , and called upon the name of the LORD .
12 : 9 And Abram journeyed , going on still toward the south .
12 : 10 And there was a famine in the land : and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there ; for the famine was grievous in the land .
12 : 11 And it came to pass , when he was come near to enter into Egypt , that he said unto Sarai his wife , Behold now , I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon : 12 : 12 Therefore it shall come to pass , when the Egyptians shall see thee , that they shall say , This is his wife : and they will kill me , but they will save thee alive .
12 : 13 Say , I pray thee , thou art my sister : that it may be well with me for thy sake ; and my soul shall live because of thee .
12 : 14 And it came to pass , that , when Abram was come into Egypt , the Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair .
12 : 15 The princes also of Pharaoh saw her , and commended her before Pharaoh : and the woman was taken into Pharaoh ' s house .
12 : 16 And he entreated Abram well for her sake : and he had sheep , and oxen , and he asses , and menservants , and maidservants , and she asses , and camels .
12 : 17 And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abram ' s wife .
12 : 18 And Pharaoh called Abram and said , What is this that thou hast done unto me ?
why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife ?
12 : 19 Why saidst thou , She is my sister ?
so I might have taken her to me to wife : now therefore behold thy wife , take her , and go thy way .
12 : 20 And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him : and they sent him away , and his wife , and all that he had .
13 : 1 And Abram went up out of Egypt , he , and his wife , and all that he had , and Lot with him , into the south .
13 : 2 And Abram was very rich in cattle , in silver , and in gold .
13 : 3 And he went on his journeys from the south even to Bethel , unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning , between Bethel and Hai ; 13 : 4 Unto the place of the altar , which he had make there at the first : and there Abram called on the name of the LORD .
13 : 5 And Lot also , which went with Abram , had flocks , and herds , and tents .
13 : 6 And the land was not able to bear them , that they might dwell together : for their substance was great , so that they could not dwell together .
13 : 7 And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram ' s cattle and the herdmen of Lot ' s cattle : and the Canaanite and the Perizzite dwelled then in the land .
13 : 8 And Abram said unto Lot , Let there be no strife , I pray thee , between me and thee , and between my herdmen and thy herdmen ; for we be brethren .
13 : 9 Is not the whole land before thee ?
separate thyself , I pray thee , from me : if thou wilt take the left hand , then I will go to the right ; or if thou depart to the right hand , then I will go to the left .
13 : 10 And Lot lifted up his eyes , and beheld all the plain of Jordan , that it was well watered every where , before the LORD destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah , even as the garden of the LORD , like the land of Egypt , as thou comest unto Zoar .
13 : 11 Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan ; and Lot journeyed east : and they separated themselves the one from the other .
13 : 12 Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan , and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain , and pitched his tent toward Sodom .
13 : 13 But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the LORD exceedingly .
13 : 14 And the LORD said unto Abram , after that Lot was separated from him , Lift up now thine eyes , and look from the place where thou art northward , and southward , and eastward , and westward : 13 : 15 For all the land which thou seest , to thee will I give it , and to thy seed for ever .
13 : 16 And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth : so that if a man can number the dust of the earth , then shall thy seed also be numbered .
13 : 17 Arise , walk through the land in the length of it and in the breadth of it ; for I will give it unto thee .
13 : 18 Then Abram removed his tent , and came and dwelt in the plain of Mamre , which is in Hebron , and built there an altar unto the LORD .
14 : 1 And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar , Arioch king of Ellasar , Chedorlaomer king of Elam , and Tidal king of nations ; 14 : 2 That these made war with Bera king of Sodom , and with Birsha king of Gomorrah , Shinab king of Admah , and Shemeber king of Zeboiim , and the king of Bela , which is Zoar .
14 : 3 All these were joined together in the vale of Siddim , which is the salt sea .
14 : 4 Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer , and in the thirteenth year they rebelled .
14 : 5 And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer , and the kings that were with him , and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim , and the Zuzims in Ham , and the Emins in Shaveh Kiriathaim , 14 : 6 And the Horites in their mount Seir , unto Elparan , which is by the wilderness .
14 : 7 And they returned , and came to Enmishpat , which is Kadesh , and smote all the country of the Amalekites , and also the Amorites , that dwelt in Hazezontamar .
14 : 8 And there went out the king of Sodom , and the king of Gomorrah , and the king of Admah , and the king of Zeboiim , and the king of Bela ( the same is Zoar ;) and they joined battle with them in the vale of Siddim ; 14 : 9 With Chedorlaomer the king of Elam , and with Tidal king of nations , and Amraphel king of Shinar , and Arioch king of Ellasar ; four kings with five .
14 : 10 And the vale of Siddim was full of slimepits ; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled , and fell there ; and they that remained fled to the mountain .
14 : 11 And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah , and all their victuals , and went their way .
14 : 12 And they took Lot , Abram ' s brother ' s son , who dwelt in Sodom , and his goods , and departed .
14 : 13 And there came one that had escaped , and told Abram the Hebrew ; for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the Amorite , brother of Eshcol , and brother of Aner : and these were confederate with Abram .
14 : 14 And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive , he armed his trained servants , born in his own house , three hundred and eighteen , and pursued them unto Dan .
14 : 15 And he divided himself against them , he and his servants , by night , and smote them , and pursued them unto Hobah , which is on the left hand of Damascus .
14 : 16 And he brought back all the goods , and also brought again his brother Lot , and his goods , and the women also , and the people .
14 : 17 And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer , and of the kings that were with him , at the valley of Shaveh , which is the king ' s dale .
14 : 18 And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine : and he was the priest of the most high God .
14 : 19 And he blessed him , and said , Blessed be Abram of the most high God , possessor of heaven and earth : 14 : 20 And blessed be the most high God , which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand .
And he gave him tithes of all .
14 : 21 And the king of Sodom said unto Abram , Give me the persons , and take the goods to thyself .
14 : 22 And Abram said to the king of Sodom , I have lift up mine hand unto the LORD , the most high God , the possessor of heaven and earth , 14 : 23 That I will not take from a thread even to a shoelatchet , and that I will not take any thing that is thine , lest thou shouldest say , I have made Abram rich : 14 : 24 Save only that which the young men have eaten , and the portion of the men which went with me , Aner , Eshcol , and Mamre ; let them take their portion .
15 : 1 After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a vision , saying , Fear not , Abram : I am thy shield , and thy exceeding great reward .
15 : 2 And Abram said , LORD God , what wilt thou give me , seeing I go childless , and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus ?
15 : 3 And Abram said , Behold , to me thou hast given no seed : and , lo , one born in my house is mine heir .
15 : 4 And , behold , the word of the LORD came unto him , saying , This shall not be thine heir ; but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir .
15 : 5 And he brought him forth abroad , and said , Look now toward heaven , and tell the stars , if thou be able to number them : and he said unto him , So shall thy seed be .
15 : 6 And he believed in the LORD ; and he counted it to him for righteousness .
15 : 7 And he said unto him , I am the LORD that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees , to give thee this land to inherit it .
15 : 8 And he said , LORD God , whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it ?
15 : 9 And he said unto him , Take me an heifer of three years old , and a she goat of three years old , and a ram of three years old , and a turtledove , and a young pigeon .
15 : 10 And he took unto him all these , and divided them in the midst , and laid each piece one against another : but the birds divided he not .
15 : 11 And when the fowls came down upon the carcases , Abram drove them away .
15 : 12 And when the sun was going down , a deep sleep fell upon Abram ; and , lo , an horror of great darkness fell upon him .
15 : 13 And he said unto Abram , Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not their ' s , and shall serve them ; and they shall afflict them four hundred years ; 15 : 14 And also that nation , whom they shall serve , will I judge : and afterward shall they come out with great substance .
15 : 15 And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace ; thou shalt be buried in a good old age .
15 : 16 But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again : for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full .
15 : 17 And it came to pass , that , when the sun went down , and it was dark , behold a smoking furnace , and a burning lamp that passed between those pieces .
15 : 18 In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram , saying , Unto thy seed have I given this land , from the river of Egypt unto the great river , the river Euphrates : 15 : 19 The Kenites , and the Kenizzites , and the Kadmonites , 15 : 20 And the Hittites , and the Perizzites , and the Rephaims , 15 : 21 And the Amorites , and the Canaanites , and the Girgashites , and the Jebusites .
16 : 1 Now Sarai Abram ' s wife bare him no children : and she had an handmaid , an Egyptian , whose name was Hagar .
16 : 2 And Sarai said unto Abram , Behold now , the LORD hath restrained me from bearing : I pray thee , go in unto my maid ; it may be that I may obtain children by her .
And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai .
16 : 3 And Sarai Abram ' s wife took Hagar her maid the Egyptian , after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan , and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife .
16 : 4 And he went in unto Hagar , and she conceived : and when she saw that she had conceived , her mistress was despised in her eyes .
16 : 5 And Sarai said unto Abram , My wrong be upon thee : I have given my maid into thy bosom ; and when she saw that she had conceived , I was despised in her eyes : the LORD judge between me and thee .
16 : 6 But Abram said unto Sarai , Behold , thy maid is in thine hand ; do to her as it pleaseth thee .
And when Sarai dealt hardly with her , she fled from her face .
16 : 7 And the angel of the LORD found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness , by the fountain in the way to Shur .
16 : 8 And he said , Hagar , Sarai ' s maid , whence camest thou ?
and whither wilt thou go ?
And she said , I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai .
16 : 9 And the angel of the LORD said unto her , Return to thy mistress , and submit thyself under her hands .
16 : 10 And the angel of the LORD said unto her , I will multiply thy seed exceedingly , that it shall not be numbered for multitude .
16 : 11 And the angel of the LORD said unto her , Behold , thou art with child and shalt bear a son , and shalt call his name Ishmael ; because the LORD hath heard thy affliction .
16 : 12 And he will be a wild man ; his hand will be against every man , and every man ' s hand against him ; and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren .
16 : 13 And she called the name of the LORD that spake unto her , Thou God seest me : for she said , Have I also here looked after him that seeth me ?
16 : 14 Wherefore the well was called Beerlahairoi ; behold , it is between Kadesh and Bered .
16 : 15 And Hagar bare Abram a son : and Abram called his son ' s name , which Hagar bare , Ishmael .
16 : 16 And Abram was fourscore and six years old , when Hagar bare Ishmael to Abram .
17 : 1 And when Abram was ninety years old and nine , the LORD appeared to Abram , and said unto him , I am the Almighty God ; walk before me , and be thou perfect .
17 : 2 And I will make my covenant between me and thee , and will multiply thee exceedingly .
17 : 3 And Abram fell on his face : and God talked with him , saying , 17 : 4 As for me , behold , my covenant is with thee , and thou shalt be a father of many nations .
17 : 5 Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram , but thy name shall be Abraham ; for a father of many nations have I made thee .
17 : 6 And I will make thee exceeding fruitful , and I will make nations of thee , and kings shall come out of thee .
17 : 7 And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant , to be a God unto thee , and to thy seed after thee .
17 : 8 And I will give unto thee , and to thy seed after thee , the land wherein thou art a stranger , all the land of Canaan , for an everlasting possession ; and I will be their God .
17 : 9 And God said unto Abraham , Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore , thou , and thy seed after thee in their generations .
17 : 10 This is my covenant , which ye shall keep , between me and you and thy seed after thee ; Every man child among you shall be circumcised .
17 : 11 And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin ; and it shall be a token of the covenant betwixt me and you .
17 : 12 And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you , every man child in your generations , he that is born in the house , or bought with money of any stranger , which is not of thy seed .
17 : 13 He that is born in thy house , and he that is bought with thy money , must needs be circumcised : and my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant .
17 : 14 And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin is not circumcised , that soul shall be cut off from his people ; he hath broken my covenant .
17 : 15 And God said unto Abraham , As for Sarai thy wife , thou shalt not call her name Sarai , but Sarah shall her name be .
17 : 16 And I will bless her , and give thee a son also of her : yea , I will bless her , and she shall be a mother of nations ; kings of people shall be of her .
17 : 17 Then Abraham fell upon his face , and laughed , and said in his heart , Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old ?
and shall Sarah , that is ninety years old , bear ?
17 : 18 And Abraham said unto God , O that Ishmael might live before thee !
17 : 19 And God said , Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed ; and thou shalt call his name Isaac : and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant , and with his seed after him .
17 : 20 And as for Ishmael , I have heard thee : Behold , I have blessed him , and will make him fruitful , and will multiply him exceedingly ; twelve princes shall he beget , and I will make him a great nation .
17 : 21 But my covenant will I establish with Isaac , which Sarah shall bear unto thee at this set time in the next year .
17 : 22 And he left off talking with him , and God went up from Abraham .
17 : 23 And Abraham took Ishmael his son , and all that were born in his house , and all that were bought with his money , every male among the men of Abraham ' s house ; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the selfsame day , as God had said unto him .
17 : 24 And Abraham was ninety years old and nine , when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin .
17 : 25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old , when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin .
17 : 26 In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised , and Ishmael his son .
17 : 27 And all the men of his house , born in the house , and bought with money of the stranger , were circumcised with him .
18 : 1 And the LORD appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre : and he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day ; 18 : 2 And he lift up his eyes and looked , and , lo , three men stood by him : and when he saw them , he ran to meet them from the tent door , and bowed himself toward the ground , 18 : 3 And said , My LORD , if now I have found favour in thy sight , pass not away , I pray thee , from thy servant : 18 : 4 Let a little water , I pray you , be fetched , and wash your feet , and rest yourselves under the tree : 18 : 5 And I will fetch a morsel of bread , and comfort ye your hearts ; after that ye shall pass on : for therefore are ye come to your servant .
And they said , So do , as thou hast said .
18 : 6 And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah , and said , Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal , knead it , and make cakes upon the hearth .
18 : 7 And Abraham ran unto the herd , and fetcht a calf tender and good , and gave it unto a young man ; and he hasted to dress it .
18 : 8 And he took butter , and milk , and the calf which he had dressed , and set it before them ; and he stood by them under the tree , and they did eat .
18 : 9 And they said unto him , Where is Sarah thy wife ?
And he said , Behold , in the tent .
18 : 10 And he said , I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life ; and , lo , Sarah thy wife shall have a son .
And Sarah heard it in the tent door , which was behind him .
18 : 11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age ; and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women .
18 : 12 Therefore Sarah laughed within herself , saying , After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure , my lord being old also ?
18 : 13 And the LORD said unto Abraham , Wherefore did Sarah laugh , saying , Shall I of a surety bear a child , which am old ?
18 : 14 Is any thing too hard for the LORD ?
At the time appointed I will return unto thee , according to the time of life , and Sarah shall have a son .
18 : 15 Then Sarah denied , saying , I laughed not ; for she was afraid .
And he said , Nay ; but thou didst laugh .
18 : 16 And the men rose up from thence , and looked toward Sodom : and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way .
18 : 17 And the LORD said , Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do ; 18 : 18 Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation , and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him ?
18 : 19 For I know him , that he will command his children and his household after him , and they shall keep the way of the LORD , to do justice and judgment ; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him .
18 : 20 And the LORD said , Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great , and because their sin is very grievous ; 18 : 21 I will go down now , and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it , which is come unto me ; and if not , I will know .
18 : 22 And the men turned their faces from thence , and went toward Sodom : but Abraham stood yet before the LORD .
18 : 23 And Abraham drew near , and said , Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked ?
18 : 24 Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city : wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein ?
18 : 25 That be far from thee to do after this manner , to slay the righteous with the wicked : and that the righteous should be as the wicked , that be far from thee : Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right ?
18 : 26 And the LORD said , If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city , then I will spare all the place for their sakes .
18 : 27 And Abraham answered and said , Behold now , I have taken upon me to speak unto the LORD , which am but dust and ashes : 18 : 28 Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous : wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five ?
And he said , If I find there forty and five , I will not destroy it .
18 : 29 And he spake unto him yet again , and said , Peradventure there shall be forty found there .
And he said , I will not do it for forty ' s sake .
18 : 30 And he said unto him , Oh let not the LORD be angry , and I will speak : Peradventure there shall thirty be found there .
And he said , I will not do it , if I find thirty there .
18 : 31 And he said , Behold now , I have taken upon me to speak unto the LORD : Peradventure there shall be twenty found there .
And he said , I will not destroy it for twenty ' s sake .
18 : 32 And he said , Oh let not the LORD be angry , and I will speak yet but this once : Peradventure ten shall be found there .
And he said , I will not destroy it for ten ' s sake .
18 : 33 And the LORD went his way , as soon as he had left communing with Abraham : and Abraham returned unto his place .
19 : 1 And there came two angels to Sodom at even ; and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom : and Lot seeing them rose up to meet them ; and he bowed himself with his face toward the ground ; 19 : 2 And he said , Behold now , my lords , turn in , I pray you , into your servant ' s house , and tarry all night , and wash your feet , and ye shall rise up early , and go on your ways .
And they said , Nay ; but we will abide in the street all night .
19 : 3 And he pressed upon them greatly ; and they turned in unto him , and entered into his house ; and he made them a feast , and did bake unleavened bread , and they did eat .
19 : 4 But before they lay down , the men of the city , even the men of Sodom , compassed the house round , both old and young , all the people from every quarter : 19 : 5 And they called unto Lot , and said unto him , Where are the men which came in to thee this night ?
bring them out unto us , that we may know them .
19 : 6 And Lot went out at the door unto them , and shut the door after him , 19 : 7 And said , I pray you , brethren , do not so wickedly .
19 : 8 Behold now , I have two daughters which have not known man ; let me , I pray you , bring them out unto you , and do ye to them as is good in your eyes : only unto these men do nothing ; for therefore came they under the shadow of my roof .
19 : 9 And they said , Stand back .
And they said again , This one fellow came in to sojourn , and he will needs be a judge : now will we deal worse with thee , than with them .
And they pressed sore upon the man , even Lot , and came near to break the door .
19 : 10 But the men put forth their hand , and pulled Lot into the house to them , and shut to the door .
19 : 11 And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with blindness , both small and great : so that they wearied themselves to find the door .
19 : 12 And the men said unto Lot , Hast thou here any besides ?
son in law , and thy sons , and thy daughters , and whatsoever thou hast in the city , bring them out of this place : 19 : 13 For we will destroy this place , because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of the LORD ; and the LORD hath sent us to destroy it .
19 : 14 And Lot went out , and spake unto his sons in law , which married his daughters , and said , Up , get you out of this place ; for the LORD will destroy this city .
But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons in law .
19 : 15 And when the morning arose , then the angels hastened Lot , saying , Arise , take thy wife , and thy two daughters , which are here ; lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city .
19 : 16 And while he lingered , the men laid hold upon his hand , and upon the hand of his wife , and upon the hand of his two daughters ; the LORD being merciful unto him : and they brought him forth , and set him without the city .
19 : 17 And it came to pass , when they had brought them forth abroad , that he said , Escape for thy life ; look not behind thee , neither stay thou in all the plain ; escape to the mountain , lest thou be consumed .
19 : 18 And Lot said unto them , Oh , not so , my LORD : 19 : 19 Behold now , thy servant hath found grace in thy sight , and thou hast magnified thy mercy , which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my life ; and I cannot escape to the mountain , lest some evil take me , and I die : 19 : 20 Behold now , this city is near to flee unto , and it is a little one : Oh , let me escape thither , ( is it not a little one ?)
and my soul shall live .
19 : 21 And he said unto him , See , I have accepted thee concerning this thing also , that I will not overthrow this city , for the which thou hast spoken .
19 : 22 Haste thee , escape thither ; for I cannot do anything till thou be come thither .
Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar .
19 : 23 The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar .
19 : 24 Then the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the LORD out of heaven ; 19 : 25 And he overthrew those cities , and all the plain , and all the inhabitants of the cities , and that which grew upon the ground .
19 : 26 But his wife looked back from behind him , and she became a pillar of salt .
19 : 27 And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place where he stood before the LORD : 19 : 28 And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah , and toward all the land of the plain , and beheld , and , lo , the smoke of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace .
19 : 29 And it came to pass , when God destroyed the cities of the plain , that God remembered Abraham , and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow , when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt .
19 : 30 And Lot went up out of Zoar , and dwelt in the mountain , and his two daughters with him ; for he feared to dwell in Zoar : and he dwelt in a cave , he and his two daughters .
19 : 31 And the firstborn said unto the younger , Our father is old , and there is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner of all the earth : 19 : 32 Come , let us make our father drink wine , and we will lie with him , that we may preserve seed of our father .
19 : 33 And they made their father drink wine that night : and the firstborn went in , and lay with her father ; and he perceived not when she lay down , nor when she arose .
19 : 34 And it came to pass on the morrow , that the firstborn said unto the younger , Behold , I lay yesternight with my father : let us make him drink wine this night also ; and go thou in , and lie with him , that we may preserve seed of our father .
19 : 35 And they made their father drink wine that night also : and the younger arose , and lay with him ; and he perceived not when she lay down , nor when she arose .
19 : 36 Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father .
19 : 37 And the first born bare a son , and called his name Moab : the same is the father of the Moabites unto this day .
19 : 38 And the younger , she also bare a son , and called his name Benammi : the same is the father of the children of Ammon unto this day .
20 : 1 And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country , and dwelled between Kadesh and Shur , and sojourned in Gerar .
20 : 2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife , She is my sister : and Abimelech king of Gerar sent , and took Sarah .
20 : 3 But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night , and said to him , Behold , thou art but a dead man , for the woman which thou hast taken ; for she is a man ' s wife .
20 : 4 But Abimelech had not come near her : and he said , LORD , wilt thou slay also a righteous nation ?
20 : 5 Said he not unto me , She is my sister ?
and she , even she herself said , He is my brother : in the integrity of my heart and innocency of my hands have I done this .
20 : 6 And God said unto him in a dream , Yea , I know that thou didst this in the integrity of thy heart ; for I also withheld thee from sinning against me : therefore suffered I thee not to touch her .
20 : 7 Now therefore restore the man his wife ; for he is a prophet , and he shall pray for thee , and thou shalt live : and if thou restore her not , know thou that thou shalt surely die , thou , and all that are thine .
20 : 8 Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning , and called all his servants , and told all these things in their ears : and the men were sore afraid .
20 : 9 Then Abimelech called Abraham , and said unto him , What hast thou done unto us ?
and what have I offended thee , that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin ?
thou hast done deeds unto me that ought not to be done .
20 : 10 And Abimelech said unto Abraham , What sawest thou , that thou hast done this thing ?
20 : 11 And Abraham said , Because I thought , Surely the fear of God is not in this place ; and they will slay me for my wife ' s sake .
20 : 12 And yet indeed she is my sister ; she is the daughter of my father , but not the daughter of my mother ; and she became my wife .
20 : 13 And it came to pass , when God caused me to wander from my father ' s house , that I said unto her , This is thy kindness which thou shalt shew unto me ; at every place whither we shall come , say of me , He is my brother .
20 : 14 And Abimelech took sheep , and oxen , and menservants , and womenservants , and gave them unto Abraham , and restored him Sarah his wife .
20 : 15 And Abimelech said , Behold , my land is before thee : dwell where it pleaseth thee .
20 : 16 And unto Sarah he said , Behold , I have given thy brother a thousand pieces of silver : behold , he is to thee a covering of the eyes , unto all that are with thee , and with all other : thus she was reproved .
20 : 17 So Abraham prayed unto God : and God healed Abimelech , and his wife , and his maidservants ; and they bare children .
20 : 18 For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech , because of Sarah Abraham ' s wife .
21 : 1 And the LORD visited Sarah as he had said , and the LORD did unto Sarah as he had spoken .
21 : 2 For Sarah conceived , and bare Abraham a son in his old age , at the set time of which God had spoken to him .
21 : 3 And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him , whom Sarah bare to him , Isaac .
21 : 4 And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac being eight days old , as God had commanded him .
21 : 5 And Abraham was an hundred years old , when his son Isaac was born unto him .
21 : 6 And Sarah said , God hath made me to laugh , so that all that hear will laugh with me .
21 : 7 And she said , Who would have said unto Abraham , that Sarah should have given children suck ?
for I have born him a son in his old age .
21 : 8 And the child grew , and was weaned : and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Isaac was weaned .
21 : 9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian , which she had born unto Abraham , mocking .
21 : 10 Wherefore she said unto Abraham , Cast out this bondwoman and her son : for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son , even with Isaac .
21 : 11 And the thing was very grievous in Abraham ' s sight because of his son .
21 : 12 And God said unto Abraham , Let it not be grievous in thy sight because of the lad , and because of thy bondwoman ; in all that Sarah hath said unto thee , hearken unto her voice ; for in Isaac shall thy seed be called .
21 : 13 And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation , because he is thy seed .
21 : 14 And Abraham rose up early in the morning , and took bread , and a bottle of water , and gave it unto Hagar , putting it on her shoulder , and the child , and sent her away : and she departed , and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba .
21 : 15 And the water was spent in the bottle , and she cast the child under one of the shrubs .
21 : 16 And she went , and sat her down over against him a good way off , as it were a bow shot : for she said , Let me not see the death of the child .
And she sat over against him , and lift up her voice , and wept .
21 : 17 And God heard the voice of the lad ; and the angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven , and said unto her , What aileth thee , Hagar ?
fear not ; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is .
21 : 18 Arise , lift up the lad , and hold him in thine hand ; for I will make him a great nation .
21 : 19 And God opened her eyes , and she saw a well of water ; and she went , and filled the bottle with water , and gave the lad drink .
21 : 20 And God was with the lad ; and he grew , and dwelt in the wilderness , and became an archer .
21 : 21 And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran : and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt .
21 : 22 And it came to pass at that time , that Abimelech and Phichol the chief captain of his host spake unto Abraham , saying , God is with thee in all that thou doest : 21 : 23 Now therefore swear unto me here by God that thou wilt not deal falsely with me , nor with my son , nor with my son ' s son : but according to the kindness that I have done unto thee , thou shalt do unto me , and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned .
21 : 24 And Abraham said , I will swear .
21 : 25 And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water , which Abimelech ' s servants had violently taken away .
21 : 26 And Abimelech said , I wot not who hath done this thing ; neither didst thou tell me , neither yet heard I of it , but to day .
21 : 27 And Abraham took sheep and oxen , and gave them unto Abimelech ; and both of them made a covenant .
21 : 28 And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves .
21 : 29 And Abimelech said unto Abraham , What mean these seven ewe lambs which thou hast set by themselves ?
21 : 30 And he said , For these seven ewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand , that they may be a witness unto me , that I have digged this well .
21 : 31 Wherefore he called that place Beersheba ; because there they sware both of them .
21 : 32 Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba : then Abimelech rose up , and Phichol the chief captain of his host , and they returned into the land of the Philistines .
21 : 33 And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba , and called there on the name of the LORD , the everlasting God .
21 : 34 And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines ' land many days .
22 : 1 And it came to pass after these things , that God did tempt Abraham , and said unto him , Abraham : and he said , Behold , here I am .
22 : 2 And he said , Take now thy son , thine only son Isaac , whom thou lovest , and get thee into the land of Moriah ; and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of .
22 : 3 And Abraham rose up early in the morning , and saddled his ass , and took two of his young men with him , and Isaac his son , and clave the wood for the burnt offering , and rose up , and went unto the place of which God had told him .
22 : 4 Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes , and saw the place afar off .
22 : 5 And Abraham said unto his young men , Abide ye here with the ass ; and I and the lad will go yonder and worship , and come again to you .
22 : 6 And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering , and laid it upon Isaac his son ; and he took the fire in his hand , and a knife ; and they went both of them together .
22 : 7 And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father , and said , My father : and he said , Here am I , my son .
And he said , Behold the fire and the wood : but where is the lamb for a burnt offering ?
22 : 8 And Abraham said , My son , God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering : so they went both of them together .
22 : 9 And they came to the place which God had told him of ; and Abraham built an altar there , and laid the wood in order , and bound Isaac his son , and laid him on the altar upon the wood .
22 : 10 And Abraham stretched forth his hand , and took the knife to slay his son .
22 : 11 And the angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven , and said , Abraham , Abraham : and he said , Here am I .
22 : 12 And he said , Lay not thine hand upon the lad , neither do thou any thing unto him : for now I know that thou fearest God , seeing thou hast not withheld thy son , thine only son from me .
22 : 13 And Abraham lifted up his eyes , and looked , and behold behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns : and Abraham went and took the ram , and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son .
22 : 14 And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh : as it is said to this day , In the mount of the LORD it shall be seen .
22 : 15 And the angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time , 22 : 16 And said , By myself have I sworn , saith the LORD , for because thou hast done this thing , and hast not withheld thy son , thine only son : 22 : 17 That in blessing I will bless thee , and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven , and as the sand which is upon the sea shore ; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies ; 22 : 18 And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed ; because thou hast obeyed my voice .
22 : 19 So Abraham returned unto his young men , and they rose up and went together to Beersheba ; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba .
22 : 20 And it came to pass after these things , that it was told Abraham , saying , Behold , Milcah , she hath also born children unto thy brother Nahor ; 22 : 21 Huz his firstborn , and Buz his brother , and Kemuel the father of Aram , 22 : 22 And Chesed , and Hazo , and Pildash , and Jidlaph , and Bethuel .
22 : 23 And Bethuel begat Rebekah : these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor , Abraham ' s brother .
22 : 24 And his concubine , whose name was Reumah , she bare also Tebah , and Gaham , and Thahash , and Maachah .
23 : 1 And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old : these were the years of the life of Sarah .
23 : 2 And Sarah died in Kirjatharba ; the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan : and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah , and to weep for her .
23 : 3 And Abraham stood up from before his dead , and spake unto the sons of Heth , saying , 23 : 4 I am a stranger and a sojourner with you : give me a possession of a buryingplace with you , that I may bury my dead out of my sight .
23 : 5 And the children of Heth answered Abraham , saying unto him , 23 : 6 Hear us , my lord : thou art a mighty prince among us : in the choice of our sepulchres bury thy dead ; none of us shall withhold from thee his sepulchre , but that thou mayest bury thy dead .
23 : 7 And Abraham stood up , and bowed himself to the people of the land , even to the children of Heth .
23 : 8 And he communed with them , saying , If it be your mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight ; hear me , and intreat for me to Ephron the son of Zohar , 23 : 9 That he may give me the cave of Machpelah , which he hath , which is in the end of his field ; for as much money as it is worth he shall give it me for a possession of a buryingplace amongst you .
23 : 10 And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth : and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth , even of all that went in at the gate of his city , saying , 23 : 11 Nay , my lord , hear me : the field give I thee , and the cave that is therein , I give it thee ; in the presence of the sons of my people give I it thee : bury thy dead .
23 : 12 And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land .
23 : 13 And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the land , saying , But if thou wilt give it , I pray thee , hear me : I will give thee money for the field ; take it of me , and I will bury my dead there .
23 : 14 And Ephron answered Abraham , saying unto him , 23 : 15 My lord , hearken unto me : the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver ; what is that betwixt me and thee ?
bury therefore thy dead .
23 : 16 And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron ; and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver , which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth , four hundred shekels of silver , current money with the merchant .
23 : 17 And the field of Ephron which was in Machpelah , which was before Mamre , the field , and the cave which was therein , and all the trees that were in the field , that were in all the borders round about , were made sure 23 : 18 Unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the children of Heth , before all that went in at the gate of his city .
23 : 19 And after this , Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre : the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan .
23 : 20 And the field , and the cave that is therein , were made sure unto Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth .
24 : 1 And Abraham was old , and well stricken in age : and the LORD had blessed Abraham in all things .
24 : 2 And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house , that ruled over all that he had , Put , I pray thee , thy hand under my thigh : 24 : 3 And I will make thee swear by the LORD , the God of heaven , and the God of the earth , that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites , among whom I dwell : 24 : 4 But thou shalt go unto my country , and to my kindred , and take a wife unto my son Isaac .
24 : 5 And the servant said unto him , Peradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me unto this land : must I needs bring thy son again unto the land from whence thou camest ?
24 : 6 And Abraham said unto him , Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again .
24 : 7 The LORD God of heaven , which took me from my father ' s house , and from the land of my kindred , and which spake unto me , and that sware unto me , saying , Unto thy seed will I give this land ; he shall send his angel before thee , and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from thence .
24 : 8 And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee , then thou shalt be clear from this my oath : only bring not my son thither again .
24 : 9 And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master , and sware to him concerning that matter .
24 : 10 And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master , and departed ; for all the goods of his master were in his hand : and he arose , and went to Mesopotamia , unto the city of Nahor .
24 : 11 And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well of water at the time of the evening , even the time that women go out to draw water .
24 : 12 And he said O LORD God of my master Abraham , I pray thee , send me good speed this day , and shew kindness unto my master Abraham .
24 : 13 Behold , I stand here by the well of water ; and the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water : 24 : 14 And let it come to pass , that the damsel to whom I shall say , Let down thy pitcher , I pray thee , that I may drink ; and she shall say , Drink , and I will give thy camels drink also : let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac ; and thereby shall I know that thou hast shewed kindness unto my master .
24 : 15 And it came to pass , before he had done speaking , that , behold , Rebekah came out , who was born to Bethuel , son of Milcah , the wife of Nahor , Abraham ' s brother , with her pitcher upon her shoulder .
24 : 16 And the damsel was very fair to look upon , a virgin , neither had any man known her : and she went down to the well , and filled her pitcher , and came up .
24 : 17 And the servant ran to meet her , and said , Let me , I pray thee , drink a little water of thy pitcher .
24 : 18 And she said , Drink , my lord : and she hasted , and let down her pitcher upon her hand , and gave him drink .
24 : 19 And when she had done giving him drink , she said , I will draw water for thy camels also , until they have done drinking .
24 : 20 And she hasted , and emptied her pitcher into the trough , and ran again unto the well to draw water , and drew for all his camels .
24 : 21 And the man wondering at her held his peace , to wit whether the LORD had made his journey prosperous or not .
24 : 22 And it came to pass , as the camels had done drinking , that the man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight , and two bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold ; 24 : 23 And said , Whose daughter art thou ?
tell me , I pray thee : is there room in thy father ' s house for us to lodge in ?
24 : 24 And she said unto him , I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah , which she bare unto Nahor .
24 : 25 She said moreover unto him , We have both straw and provender enough , and room to lodge in .
24 : 26 And the man bowed down his head , and worshipped the LORD .
24 : 27 And he said , Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham , who hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth : I being in the way , the LORD led me to the house of my master ' s brethren .
24 : 28 And the damsel ran , and told them of her mother ' s house these things .
24 : 29 And Rebekah had a brother , and his name was Laban : and Laban ran out unto the man , unto the well .
24 : 30 And it came to pass , when he saw the earring and bracelets upon his sister ' s hands , and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister , saying , Thus spake the man unto me ; that he came unto the man ; and , behold , he stood by the camels at the well .
24 : 31 And he said , Come in , thou blessed of the LORD ; wherefore standest thou without ?
for I have prepared the house , and room for the camels .
24 : 32 And the man came into the house : and he ungirded his camels , and gave straw and provender for the camels , and water to wash his feet , and the men ' s feet that were with him .
24 : 33 And there was set meat before him to eat : but he said , I will not eat , until I have told mine errand .
And he said , Speak on .
24 : 34 And he said , I am Abraham ' s servant .
24 : 35 And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly ; and he is become great : and he hath given him flocks , and herds , and silver , and gold , and menservants , and maidservants , and camels , and asses .
24 : 36 And Sarah my master ' s wife bare a son to my master when she was old : and unto him hath he given all that he hath .
24 : 37 And my master made me swear , saying , Thou shalt not take a wife to my son of the daughters of the Canaanites , in whose land I dwell : 24 : 38 But thou shalt go unto my father ' s house , and to my kindred , and take a wife unto my son .
24 : 39 And I said unto my master , Peradventure the woman will not follow me .
24 : 40 And he said unto me , The LORD , before whom I walk , will send his angel with thee , and prosper thy way ; and thou shalt take a wife for my son of my kindred , and of my father ' s house : 24 : 41 Then shalt thou be clear from this my oath , when thou comest to my kindred ; and if they give not thee one , thou shalt be clear from my oath .
24 : 42 And I came this day unto the well , and said , O LORD God of my master Abraham , if now thou do prosper my way which I go : 24 : 43 Behold , I stand by the well of water ; and it shall come to pass , that when the virgin cometh forth to draw water , and I say to her , Give me , I pray thee , a little water of thy pitcher to drink ; 24 : 44 And she say to me , Both drink thou , and I will also draw for thy camels : let the same be the woman whom the LORD hath appointed out for my master ' s son .
24 : 45 And before I had done speaking in mine heart , behold , Rebekah came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder ; and she went down unto the well , and drew water : and I said unto her , Let me drink , I pray thee .
24 : 46 And she made haste , and let down her pitcher from her shoulder , and said , Drink , and I will give thy camels drink also : so I drank , and she made the camels drink also .
24 : 47 And I asked her , and said , Whose daughter art thou ?
And she said , the daughter of Bethuel , Nahor ' s son , whom Milcah bare unto him : and I put the earring upon her face , and the bracelets upon her hands .
24 : 48 And I bowed down my head , and worshipped the LORD , and blessed the LORD God of my master Abraham , which had led me in the right way to take my master ' s brother ' s daughter unto his son .
24 : 49 And now if ye will deal kindly and truly with my master , tell me : and if not , tell me ; that I may turn to the right hand , or to the left .
24 : 50 Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said , The thing proceedeth from the LORD : we cannot speak unto thee bad or good .
24 : 51 Behold , Rebekah is before thee , take her , and go , and let her be thy master ' s son ' s wife , as the LORD hath spoken .
24 : 52 And it came to pass , that , when Abraham ' s servant heard their words , he worshipped the LORD , bowing himself to the earth .
24 : 53 And the servant brought forth jewels of silver , and jewels of gold , and raiment , and gave them to Rebekah : he gave also to her brother and to her mother precious things .
24 : 54 And they did eat and drink , he and the men that were with him , and tarried all night ; and they rose up in the morning , and he said , Send me away unto my master .
24 : 55 And her brother and her mother said , Let the damsel abide with us a few days , at the least ten ; after that she shall go .
24 : 56 And he said unto them , Hinder me not , seeing the LORD hath prospered my way ; send me away that I may go to my master .
24 : 57 And they said , We will call the damsel , and enquire at her mouth .
24 : 58 And they called Rebekah , and said unto her , Wilt thou go with this man ?
And she said , I will go .
24 : 59 And they sent away Rebekah their sister , and her nurse , and Abraham ' s servant , and his men .
24 : 60 And they blessed Rebekah , and said unto her , Thou art our sister , be thou the mother of thousands of millions , and let thy seed possess the gate of those which hate them .
24 : 61 And Rebekah arose , and her damsels , and they rode upon the camels , and followed the man : and the servant took Rebekah , and went his way .
24 : 62 And Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi ; for he dwelt in the south country .
24 : 63 And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide : and he lifted up his eyes , and saw , and , behold , the camels were coming .
24 : 64 And Rebekah lifted up her eyes , and when she saw Isaac , she lighted off the camel .
24 : 65 For she had said unto the servant , What man is this that walketh in the field to meet us ?
And the servant had said , It is my master : therefore she took a vail , and covered herself .
24 : 66 And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done .
24 : 67 And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah ' s tent , and took Rebekah , and she became his wife ; and he loved her : and Isaac was comforted after his mother ' s death .
25 : 1 Then again Abraham took a wife , and her name was Keturah .
25 : 2 And she bare him Zimran , and Jokshan , and Medan , and Midian , and Ishbak , and Shuah .
25 : 3 And Jokshan begat Sheba , and Dedan .
And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim , and Letushim , and Leummim .
25 : 4 And the sons of Midian ; Ephah , and Epher , and Hanoch , and Abidah , and Eldaah .
All these were the children of Keturah .
25 : 5 And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac .
25 : 6 But unto the sons of the concubines , which Abraham had , Abraham gave gifts , and sent them away from Isaac his son , while he yet lived , eastward , unto the east country .
25 : 7 And these are the days of the years of Abraham ' s life which he lived , an hundred threescore and fifteen years .
25 : 8 Then Abraham gave up the ghost , and died in a good old age , an old man , and full of years ; and was gathered to his people .
25 : 9 And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah , in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite , which is before Mamre ; 25 : 10 The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth : there was Abraham buried , and Sarah his wife .
25 : 11 And it came to pass after the death of Abraham , that God blessed his son Isaac ; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi .
25 : 12 Now these are the generations of Ishmael , Abraham ' s son , whom Hagar the Egyptian , Sarah ' s handmaid , bare unto Abraham : 25 : 13 And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael , by their names , according to their generations : the firstborn of Ishmael , Nebajoth ; and Kedar , and Adbeel , and Mibsam , 25 : 14 And Mishma , and Dumah , and Massa , 25 : 15 Hadar , and Tema , Jetur , Naphish , and Kedemah : 25 : 16 These are the sons of Ishmael , and these are their names , by their towns , and by their castles ; twelve princes according to their nations .
25 : 17 And these are the years of the life of Ishmael , an hundred and thirty and seven years : and he gave up the ghost and died ; and was gathered unto his people .
25 : 18 And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur , that is before Egypt , as thou goest toward Assyria : and he died in the presence of all his brethren .
25 : 19 And these are the generations of Isaac , Abraham ' s son : Abraham begat Isaac : 25 : 20 And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife , the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram , the sister to Laban the Syrian .
25 : 21 And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife , because she was barren : and the LORD was intreated of him , and Rebekah his wife conceived .
25 : 22 And the children struggled together within her ; and she said , If it be so , why am I thus ?
And she went to enquire of the LORD .
25 : 23 And the LORD said unto her , Two nations are in thy womb , and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels ; and the one people shall be stronger than the other people ; and the elder shall serve the younger .
25 : 24 And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled , behold , there were twins in her womb .
25 : 25 And the first came out red , all over like an hairy garment ; and they called his name Esau .
25 : 26 And after that came his brother out , and his hand took hold on Esau ' s heel ; and his name was called Jacob : and Isaac was threescore years old when she bare them .
25 : 27 And the boys grew : and Esau was a cunning hunter , a man of the field ; and Jacob was a plain man , dwelling in tents .
25 : 28 And Isaac loved Esau , because he did eat of his venison : but Rebekah loved Jacob .
25 : 29 And Jacob sod pottage : and Esau came from the field , and he was faint : 25 : 30 And Esau said to Jacob , Feed me , I pray thee , with that same red pottage ; for I am faint : therefore was his name called Edom .
25 : 31 And Jacob said , Sell me this day thy birthright .
25 : 32 And Esau said , Behold , I am at the point to die : and what profit shall this birthright do to me ?
25 : 33 And Jacob said , Swear to me this day ; and he sware unto him : and he sold his birthright unto Jacob .
25 : 34 Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles ; and he did eat and drink , and rose up , and went his way : thus Esau despised his birthright .
26 : 1 And there was a famine in the land , beside the first famine that was in the days of Abraham .
And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines unto Gerar .
26 : 2 And the LORD appeared unto him , and said , Go not down into Egypt ; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of : 26 : 3 Sojourn in this land , and I will be with thee , and will bless thee ; for unto thee , and unto thy seed , I will give all these countries , and I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father ; 26 : 4 And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven , and will give unto thy seed all these countries ; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed ; 26 : 5 Because that Abraham obeyed my voice , and kept my charge , my commandments , my statutes , and my laws .
26 : 6 And Isaac dwelt in Gerar : 26 : 7 And the men of the place asked him of his wife ; and he said , She is my sister : for he feared to say , She is my wife ; lest , said he , the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah ; because she was fair to look upon .
26 : 8 And it came to pass , when he had been there a long time , that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window , and saw , and , behold , Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife .
26 : 9 And Abimelech called Isaac , and said , Behold , of a surety she is thy wife ; and how saidst thou , She is my sister ?
And Isaac said unto him , Because I said , Lest I die for her .
26 : 10 And Abimelech said , What is this thou hast done unto us ?
one of the people might lightly have lien with thy wife , and thou shouldest have brought guiltiness upon us .
26 : 11 And Abimelech charged all his people , saying , He that toucheth this man or his wife shall surely be put to death .
26 : 12 Then Isaac sowed in that land , and received in the same year an hundredfold : and the LORD blessed him .
26 : 13 And the man waxed great , and went forward , and grew until he became very great : 26 : 14 For he had possession of flocks , and possession of herds , and great store of servants : and the Philistines envied him .
26 : 15 For all the wells which his father ' s servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father , the Philistines had stopped them , and filled them with earth .
26 : 16 And Abimelech said unto Isaac , Go from us ; for thou art much mightier than we .
26 : 17 And Isaac departed thence , and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar , and dwelt there .
26 : 18 And Isaac digged again the wells of water , which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father ; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham : and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them .
26 : 19 And Isaac ' s servants digged in the valley , and found there a well of springing water .
26 : 20 And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac ' s herdmen , saying , The water is ours : and he called the name of the well Esek ; because they strove with him .
26 : 21 And they digged another well , and strove for that also : and he called the name of it Sitnah .
26 : 22 And he removed from thence , and digged another well ; and for that they strove not : and he called the name of it Rehoboth ; and he said , For now the LORD hath made room for us , and we shall be fruitful in the land .
26 : 23 And he went up from thence to Beersheba .
26 : 24 And the LORD appeared unto him the same night , and said , I am the God of Abraham thy father : fear not , for I am with thee , and will bless thee , and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham ' s sake .
26 : 25 And he builded an altar there , and called upon the name of the LORD , and pitched his tent there : and there Isaac ' s servants digged a well .
26 : 26 Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar , and Ahuzzath one of his friends , and Phichol the chief captain of his army .
26 : 27 And Isaac said unto them , Wherefore come ye to me , seeing ye hate me , and have sent me away from you ?
26 : 28 And they said , We saw certainly that the LORD was with thee : and we said , Let there be now an oath betwixt us , even betwixt us and thee , and let us make a covenant with thee ; 26 : 29 That thou wilt do us no hurt , as we have not touched thee , and as we have done unto thee nothing but good , and have sent thee away in peace : thou art now the blessed of the LORD .
26 : 30 And he made them a feast , and they did eat and drink .
26 : 31 And they rose up betimes in the morning , and sware one to another : and Isaac sent them away , and they departed from him in peace .
26 : 32 And it came to pass the same day , that Isaac ' s servants came , and told him concerning the well which they had digged , and said unto him , We have found water .
26 : 33 And he called it Shebah : therefore the name of the city is Beersheba unto this day .
26 : 34 And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite , and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite : 26 : 35 Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah .
27 : 1 And it came to pass , that when Isaac was old , and his eyes were dim , so that he could not see , he called Esau his eldest son , and said unto him , My son : and he said unto him , Behold , here am I .
27 : 2 And he said , Behold now , I am old , I know not the day of my death : 27 : 3 Now therefore take , I pray thee , thy weapons , thy quiver and thy bow , and go out to the field , and take me some venison ; 27 : 4 And make me savoury meat , such as I love , and bring it to me , that I may eat ; that my soul may bless thee before I die .
27 : 5 And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son .
And Esau went to the field to hunt for venison , and to bring it .
27 : 6 And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son , saying , Behold , I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother , saying , 27 : 7 Bring me venison , and make me savoury meat , that I may eat , and bless thee before the LORD before my death .
27 : 8 Now therefore , my son , obey my voice according to that which I command thee .
27 : 9 Go now to the flock , and fetch me from thence two good kids of the goats ; and I will make them savoury meat for thy father , such as he loveth : 27 : 10 And thou shalt bring it to thy father , that he may eat , and that he may bless thee before his death .
27 : 11 And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother , Behold , Esau my brother is a hairy man , and I am a smooth man : 27 : 12 My father peradventure will feel me , and I shall seem to him as a deceiver ; and I shall bring a curse upon me , and not a blessing .
27 : 13 And his mother said unto him , Upon me be thy curse , my son : only obey my voice , and go fetch me them .
27 : 14 And he went , and fetched , and brought them to his mother : and his mother made savoury meat , such as his father loved .
27 : 15 And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau , which were with her in the house , and put them upon Jacob her younger son : 27 : 16 And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands , and upon the smooth of his neck : 27 : 17 And she gave the savoury meat and the bread , which she had prepared , into the hand of her son Jacob .
27 : 18 And he came unto his father , and said , My father : and he said , Here am I ; who art thou , my son ?
27 : 19 And Jacob said unto his father , I am Esau thy first born ; I have done according as thou badest me : arise , I pray thee , sit and eat of my venison , that thy soul may bless me .
27 : 20 And Isaac said unto his son , How is it that thou hast found it so quickly , my son ?
And he said , Because the LORD thy God brought it to me .
27 : 21 And Isaac said unto Jacob , Come near , I pray thee , that I may feel thee , my son , whether thou be my very son Esau or not .
27 : 22 And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father ; and he felt him , and said , The voice is Jacob ' s voice , but the hands are the hands of Esau .
27 : 23 And he discerned him not , because his hands were hairy , as his brother Esau ' s hands : so he blessed him .
27 : 24 And he said , Art thou my very son Esau ?
And he said , I am .
27 : 25 And he said , Bring it near to me , and I will eat of my son ' s venison , that my soul may bless thee .
And he brought it near to him , and he did eat : and he brought him wine and he drank .
27 : 26 And his father Isaac said unto him , Come near now , and kiss me , my son .
27 : 27 And he came near , and kissed him : and he smelled the smell of his raiment , and blessed him , and said , See , the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the LORD hath blessed : 27 : 28 Therefore God give thee of the dew of heaven , and the fatness of the earth , and plenty of corn and wine : 27 : 29 Let people serve thee , and nations bow down to thee : be lord over thy brethren , and let thy mother ' s sons bow down to thee : cursed be every one that curseth thee , and blessed be he that blesseth thee .
27 : 30 And it came to pass , as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob , and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father , that Esau his brother came in from his hunting .
27 : 31 And he also had made savoury meat , and brought it unto his father , and said unto his father , Let my father arise , and eat of his son ' s venison , that thy soul may bless me .
27 : 32 And Isaac his father said unto him , Who art thou ?
And he said , I am thy son , thy firstborn Esau .
27 : 33 And Isaac trembled very exceedingly , and said , Who ?
where is he that hath taken venison , and brought it me , and I have eaten of all before thou camest , and have blessed him ?
yea , and he shall be blessed .
27 : 34 And when Esau heard the words of his father , he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry , and said unto his father , Bless me , even me also , O my father .
27 : 35 And he said , Thy brother came with subtilty , and hath taken away thy blessing .
27 : 36 And he said , Is not he rightly named Jacob ?
for he hath supplanted me these two times : he took away my birthright ; and , behold , now he hath taken away my blessing .
And he said , Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me ?
27 : 37 And Isaac answered and said unto Esau , Behold , I have made him thy lord , and all his brethren have I given to him for servants ; and with corn and wine have I sustained him : and what shall I do now unto thee , my son ?
27 : 38 And Esau said unto his father , Hast thou but one blessing , my father ?
bless me , even me also , O my father .
And Esau lifted up his voice , and wept .
27 : 39 And Isaac his father answered and said unto him , Behold , thy dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth , and of the dew of heaven from above ; 27 : 40 And by thy sword shalt thou live , and shalt serve thy brother ; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the dominion , that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck .
27 : 41 And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him : and Esau said in his heart , The days of mourning for my father are at hand ; then will I slay my brother Jacob .
27 : 42 And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah : and she sent and called Jacob her younger son , and said unto him , Behold , thy brother Esau , as touching thee , doth comfort himself , purposing to kill thee .
27 : 43 Now therefore , my son , obey my voice ; arise , flee thou to Laban my brother to Haran ; 27 : 44 And tarry with him a few days , until thy brother ' s fury turn away ; 27 : 45 Until thy brother ' s anger turn away from thee , and he forget that which thou hast done to him : then I will send , and fetch thee from thence : why should I be deprived also of you both in one day ?
27 : 46 And Rebekah said to Isaac , I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth : if Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth , such as these which are of the daughters of the land , what good shall my life do me ?
28 : 1 And Isaac called Jacob , and blessed him , and charged him , and said unto him , Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan .
28 : 2 Arise , go to Padanaram , to the house of Bethuel thy mother ' s father ; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughers of Laban thy mother ' s brother .
28 : 3 And God Almighty bless thee , and make thee fruitful , and multiply thee , that thou mayest be a multitude of people ; 28 : 4 And give thee the blessing of Abraham , to thee , and to thy seed with thee ; that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger , which God gave unto Abraham .
28 : 5 And Isaac sent away Jacob : and he went to Padanaram unto Laban , son of Bethuel the Syrian , the brother of Rebekah , Jacob ' s and Esau ' s mother .
28 : 6 When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob , and sent him away to Padanaram , to take him a wife from thence ; and that as he blessed him he gave him a charge , saying , Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughers of Canaan ; 28 : 7 And that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother , and was gone to Padanaram ; 28 : 8 And Esau seeing that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father ; 28 : 9 Then went Esau unto Ishmael , and took unto the wives which he had Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abraham ' s son , the sister of Nebajoth , to be his wife .
28 : 10 And Jacob went out from Beersheba , and went toward Haran .
28 : 11 And he lighted upon a certain place , and tarried there all night , because the sun was set ; and he took of the stones of that place , and put them for his pillows , and lay down in that place to sleep .
28 : 12 And he dreamed , and behold a ladder set up on the earth , and the top of it reached to heaven : and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it .
28 : 13 And , behold , the LORD stood above it , and said , I am the LORD God of Abraham thy father , and the God of Isaac : the land whereon thou liest , to thee will I give it , and to thy seed ; 28 : 14 And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth , and thou shalt spread abroad to the west , and to the east , and to the north , and to the south : and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed .
28 : 15 And , behold , I am with thee , and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest , and will bring thee again into this land ; for I will not leave thee , until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of .
28 : 16 And Jacob awaked out of his sleep , and he said , Surely the LORD is in this place ; and I knew it not .
28 : 17 And he was afraid , and said , How dreadful is this place !
this is none other but the house of God , and this is the gate of heaven .
28 : 18 And Jacob rose up early in the morning , and took the stone that he had put for his pillows , and set it up for a pillar , and poured oil upon the top of it .
28 : 19 And he called the name of that place Bethel : but the name of that city was called Luz at the first .
28 : 20 And Jacob vowed a vow , saying , If God will be with me , and will keep me in this way that I go , and will give me bread to eat , and raiment to put on , 28 : 21 So that I come again to my father ' s house in peace ; then shall the LORD be my God : 28 : 22 And this stone , which I have set for a pillar , shall be God ' s house : and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee .
29 : 1 Then Jacob went on his journey , and came into the land of the people of the east .
29 : 2 And he looked , and behold a well in the field , and , lo , there were three flocks of sheep lying by it ; for out of that well they watered the flocks : and a great stone was upon the well ' s mouth .
29 : 3 And thither were all the flocks gathered : and they rolled the stone from the well ' s mouth , and watered the sheep , and put the stone again upon the well ' s mouth in his place .
29 : 4 And Jacob said unto them , My brethren , whence be ye ?
And they said , Of Haran are we .
29 : 5 And he said unto them , Know ye Laban the son of Nahor ?
And they said , We know him .
29 : 6 And he said unto them , Is he well ?
And they said , He is well : and , behold , Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep .
29 : 7 And he said , Lo , it is yet high day , neither is it time that the cattle should be gathered together : water ye the sheep , and go and feed them .
29 : 8 And they said , We cannot , until all the flocks be gathered together , and till they roll the stone from the well ' s mouth ; then we water the sheep .
29 : 9 And while he yet spake with them , Rachel came with her father ' s sheep ; for she kept them .
29 : 10 And it came to pass , when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother ' s brother , and the sheep of Laban his mother ' s brother , that Jacob went near , and rolled the stone from the well ' s mouth , and watered the flock of Laban his mother ' s brother .
29 : 11 And Jacob kissed Rachel , and lifted up his voice , and wept .
29 : 12 And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father ' s brother , and that he was Rebekah ' s son : and she ran and told her father .
29 : 13 And it came to pass , when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his sister ' s son , that he ran to meet him , and embraced him , and kissed him , and brought him to his house .
And he told Laban all these things .
29 : 14 And Laban said to him , Surely thou art my bone and my flesh .
And he abode with him the space of a month .
29 : 15 And Laban said unto Jacob , Because thou art my brother , shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought ?
tell me , what shall thy wages be ?
29 : 16 And Laban had two daughters : the name of the elder was Leah , and the name of the younger was Rachel .
29 : 17 Leah was tender eyed ; but Rachel was beautiful and well favoured .
29 : 18 And Jacob loved Rachel ; and said , I will serve thee seven years for Rachel thy younger daughter .
29 : 19 And Laban said , It is better that I give her to thee , than that I should give her to another man : abide with me .
29 : 20 And Jacob served seven years for Rachel ; and they seemed unto him but a few days , for the love he had to her .
29 : 21 And Jacob said unto Laban , Give me my wife , for my days are fulfilled , that I may go in unto her .
29 : 22 And Laban gathered together all the men of the place , and made a feast .
29 : 23 And it came to pass in the evening , that he took Leah his daughter , and brought her to him ; and he went in unto her .
29 : 24 And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for an handmaid .
29 : 25 And it came to pass , that in the morning , behold , it was Leah : and he said to Laban , What is this thou hast done unto me ?
did not I serve with thee for Rachel ?
wherefore then hast thou beguiled me ?
29 : 26 And Laban said , It must not be so done in our country , to give the younger before the firstborn .
29 : 27 Fulfil her week , and we will give thee this also for the service which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years .
29 : 28 And Jacob did so , and fulfilled her week : and he gave him Rachel his daughter to wife also .
29 : 29 And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to be her maid .
29 : 30 And he went in also unto Rachel , and he loved also Rachel more than Leah , and served with him yet seven other years .
29 : 31 And when the LORD saw that Leah was hated , he opened her womb : but Rachel was barren .
29 : 32 And Leah conceived , and bare a son , and she called his name Reuben : for she said , Surely the LORD hath looked upon my affliction ; now therefore my husband will love me .
29 : 33 And she conceived again , and bare a son ; and said , Because the LORD hath heard I was hated , he hath therefore given me this son also : and she called his name Simeon .
29 : 34 And she conceived again , and bare a son ; and said , Now this time will my husband be joined unto me , because I have born him three sons : therefore was his name called Levi .
29 : 35 And she conceived again , and bare a son : and she said , Now will I praise the LORD : therefore she called his name Judah ; and left bearing .
30 : 1 And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children , Rachel envied her sister ; and said unto Jacob , Give me children , or else I die .
30 : 2 And Jacob ' s anger was kindled against Rachel : and he said , Am I in God ' s stead , who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb ?
30 : 3 And she said , Behold my maid Bilhah , go in unto her ; and she shall bear upon my knees , that I may also have children by her .
30 : 4 And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife : and Jacob went in unto her .
30 : 5 And Bilhah conceived , and bare Jacob a son .
30 : 6 And Rachel said , God hath judged me , and hath also heard my voice , and hath given me a son : therefore called she his name Dan .
30 : 7 And Bilhah Rachel ' s maid conceived again , and bare Jacob a second son .
30 : 8 And Rachel said , With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister , and I have prevailed : and she called his name Naphtali .
30 : 9 When Leah saw that she had left bearing , she took Zilpah her maid , and gave her Jacob to wife .
30 : 10 And Zilpah Leah ' s maid bare Jacob a son .
30 : 11 And Leah said , A troop cometh : and she called his name Gad .
30 : 12 And Zilpah Leah ' s maid bare Jacob a second son .
30 : 13 And Leah said , Happy am I , for the daughters will call me blessed : and she called his name Asher .
30 : 14 And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest , and found mandrakes in the field , and brought them unto his mother Leah .
Then Rachel said to Leah , Give me , I pray thee , of thy son ' s mandrakes .
30 : 15 And she said unto her , Is it a small matter that thou hast taken my husband ?
and wouldest thou take away my son ' s mandrakes also ?
And Rachel said , Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son ' s mandrakes .
30 : 16 And Jacob came out of the field in the evening , and Leah went out to meet him , and said , Thou must come in unto me ; for surely I have hired thee with my son ' s mandrakes .
And he lay with her that night .
30 : 17 And God hearkened unto Leah , and she conceived , and bare Jacob the fifth son .
30 : 18 And Leah said , God hath given me my hire , because I have given my maiden to my husband : and she called his name Issachar .
30 : 19 And Leah conceived again , and bare Jacob the sixth son .
30 : 20 And Leah said , God hath endued me with a good dowry ; now will my husband dwell with me , because I have born him six sons : and she called his name Zebulun .
30 : 21 And afterwards she bare a daughter , and called her name Dinah .
30 : 22 And God remembered Rachel , and God hearkened to her , and opened her womb .
30 : 23 And she conceived , and bare a son ; and said , God hath taken away my reproach : 30 : 24 And she called his name Joseph ; and said , The LORD shall add to me another son .
30 : 25 And it came to pass , when Rachel had born Joseph , that Jacob said unto Laban , Send me away , that I may go unto mine own place , and to my country .
30 : 26 Give me my wives and my children , for whom I have served thee , and let me go : for thou knowest my service which I have done thee .
30 : 27 And Laban said unto him , I pray thee , if I have found favour in thine eyes , tarry : for I have learned by experience that the LORD hath blessed me for thy sake .
30 : 28 And he said , Appoint me thy wages , and I will give it .
30 : 29 And he said unto him , Thou knowest how I have served thee , and how thy cattle was with me .
30 : 30 For it was little which thou hadst before I came , and it is now increased unto a multitude ; and the LORD hath blessed thee since my coming : and now when shall I provide for mine own house also ?
30 : 31 And he said , What shall I give thee ?
And Jacob said , Thou shalt not give me any thing : if thou wilt do this thing for me , I will again feed and keep thy flock .
30 : 32 I will pass through all thy flock to day , removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle , and all the brown cattle among the sheep , and the spotted and speckled among the goats : and of such shall be my hire .
30 : 33 So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come , when it shall come for my hire before thy face : every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats , and brown among the sheep , that shall be counted stolen with me .
30 : 34 And Laban said , Behold , I would it might be according to thy word .
30 : 35 And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and spotted , and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted , and every one that had some white in it , and all the brown among the sheep , and gave them into the hand of his sons .
30 : 36 And he set three days ' journey betwixt himself and Jacob : and Jacob fed the rest of Laban ' s flocks .
30 : 37 And Jacob took him rods of green poplar , and of the hazel and chesnut tree ; and pilled white strakes in them , and made the white appear which was in the rods .
30 : 38 And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink , that they should conceive when they came to drink .
30 : 39 And the flocks conceived before the rods , and brought forth cattle ringstraked , speckled , and spotted .
30 : 40 And Jacob did separate the lambs , and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstraked , and all the brown in the flock of Laban ; and he put his own flocks by themselves , and put them not unto Laban ' s cattle .
30 : 41 And it came to pass , whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive , that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters , that they might conceive among the rods .
30 : 42 But when the cattle were feeble , he put them not in : so the feebler were Laban ' s , and the stronger Jacob ' s .
30 : 43 And the man increased exceedingly , and had much cattle , and maidservants , and menservants , and camels , and asses .
31 : 1 And he heard the words of Laban ' s sons , saying , Jacob hath taken away all that was our father ' s ; and of that which was our father ' s hath he gotten all this glory .
31 : 2 And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban , and , behold , it was not toward him as before .
31 : 3 And the LORD said unto Jacob , Return unto the land of thy fathers , and to thy kindred ; and I will be with thee .
31 : 4 And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his flock , 31 : 5 And said unto them , I see your father ' s countenance , that it is not toward me as before ; but the God of my father hath been with me .
31 : 6 And ye know that with all my power I have served your father .
31 : 7 And your father hath deceived me , and changed my wages ten times ; but God suffered him not to hurt me .
31 : 8 If he said thus , The speckled shall be thy wages ; then all the cattle bare speckled : and if he said thus , The ringstraked shall be thy hire ; then bare all the cattle ringstraked .
31 : 9 Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father , and given them to me .
31 : 10 And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived , that I lifted up mine eyes , and saw in a dream , and , behold , the rams which leaped upon the cattle were ringstraked , speckled , and grisled .
31 : 11 And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream , saying , Jacob : And I said , Here am I .
31 : 12 And he said , Lift up now thine eyes , and see , all the rams which leap upon the cattle are ringstraked , speckled , and grisled : for I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee .
31 : 13 I am the God of Bethel , where thou anointedst the pillar , and where thou vowedst a vow unto me : now arise , get thee out from this land , and return unto the land of thy kindred .
31 : 14 And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him , Is there yet any portion or inheritance for us in our father ' s house ?
31 : 15 Are we not counted of him strangers ?
for he hath sold us , and hath quite devoured also our money .
31 : 16 For all the riches which God hath taken from our father , that is ours , and our children ' s : now then , whatsoever God hath said unto thee , do .
31 : 17 Then Jacob rose up , and set his sons and his wives upon camels ; 31 : 18 And he carried away all his cattle , and all his goods which he had gotten , the cattle of his getting , which he had gotten in Padanaram , for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan .
31 : 19 And Laban went to shear his sheep : and Rachel had stolen the images that were her father ' s .
31 : 20 And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian , in that he told him not that he fled .
31 : 21 So he fled with all that he had ; and he rose up , and passed over the river , and set his face toward the mount Gilead .
31 : 22 And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was fled .
31 : 23 And he took his brethren with him , and pursued after him seven days ' journey ; and they overtook him in the mount Gilead .
31 : 24 And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night , and said unto him , Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad .
31 : 25 Then Laban overtook Jacob .
Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mount : and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead .
31 : 26 And Laban said to Jacob , What hast thou done , that thou hast stolen away unawares to me , and carried away my daughters , as captives taken with the sword ?
31 : 27 Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly , and steal away from me ; and didst not tell me , that I might have sent thee away with mirth , and with songs , with tabret , and with harp ?
31 : 28 And hast not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters ?
thou hast now done foolishly in so doing .
31 : 29 It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt : but the God of your father spake unto me yesternight , saying , Take thou heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad .
31 : 30 And now , though thou wouldest needs be gone , because thou sore longedst after thy father ' s house , yet wherefore hast thou stolen my gods ?
31 : 31 And Jacob answered and said to Laban , Because I was afraid : for I said , Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy daughters from me .
31 : 32 With whomsoever thou findest thy gods , let him not live : before our brethren discern thou what is thine with me , and take it to thee .
For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them .
31 : 33 And Laban went into Jacob ' s tent , and into Leah ' s tent , and into the two maidservants ' tents ; but he found them not .
Then went he out of Leah ' s tent , and entered into Rachel ' s tent .
31 : 34 Now Rachel had taken the images , and put them in the camel ' s furniture , and sat upon them .
And Laban searched all the tent , but found them not .
31 : 35 And she said to her father , Let it not displease my lord that I cannot rise up before thee ; for the custom of women is upon me .
And he searched but found not the images .
31 : 36 And Jacob was wroth , and chode with Laban : and Jacob answered and said to Laban , What is my trespass ?
what is my sin , that thou hast so hotly pursued after me ?
31 : 37 Whereas thou hast searched all my stuff , what hast thou found of all thy household stuff ?
set it here before my brethren and thy brethren , that they may judge betwixt us both .
31 : 38 This twenty years have I been with thee ; thy ewes and thy she goats have not cast their young , and the rams of thy flock have I not eaten .
31 : 39 That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee ; I bare the loss of it ; of my hand didst thou require it , whether stolen by day , or stolen by night .
31 : 40 Thus I was ; in the day the drought consumed me , and the frost by night ; and my sleep departed from mine eyes .
31 : 41 Thus have I been twenty years in thy house ; I served thee fourteen years for thy two daughters , and six years for thy cattle : and thou hast changed my wages ten times .
31 : 42 Except the God of my father , the God of Abraham , and the fear of Isaac , had been with me , surely thou hadst sent me away now empty .
God hath seen mine affliction and the labour of my hands , and rebuked thee yesternight .
31 : 43 And Laban answered and said unto Jacob , These daughters are my daughters , and these children are my children , and these cattle are my cattle , and all that thou seest is mine : and what can I do this day unto these my daughters , or unto their children which they have born ?
31 : 44 Now therefore come thou , let us make a covenant , I and thou ; and let it be for a witness between me and thee .
31 : 45 And Jacob took a stone , and set it up for a pillar .
31 : 46 And Jacob said unto his brethren , Gather stones ; and they took stones , and made an heap : and they did eat there upon the heap .
31 : 47 And Laban called it Jegarsahadutha : but Jacob called it Galeed .
31 : 48 And Laban said , This heap is a witness between me and thee this day .
Therefore was the name of it called Galeed ; 31 : 49 And Mizpah ; for he said , The LORD watch between me and thee , when we are absent one from another .
31 : 50 If thou shalt afflict my daughters , or if thou shalt take other wives beside my daughters , no man is with us ; see , God is witness betwixt me and thee .
31 : 51 And Laban said to Jacob , Behold this heap , and behold this pillar , which I have cast betwixt me and thee : 31 : 52 This heap be witness , and this pillar be witness , that I will not pass over this heap to thee , and that thou shalt not pass over this heap and this pillar unto me , for harm .
31 : 53 The God of Abraham , and the God of Nahor , the God of their father , judge betwixt us .
And Jacob sware by the fear of his father Isaac .
31 : 54 Then Jacob offered sacrifice upon the mount , and called his brethren to eat bread : and they did eat bread , and tarried all night in the mount .
31 : 55 And early in the morning Laban rose up , and kissed his sons and his daughters , and blessed them : and Laban departed , and returned unto his place .
32 : 1 And Jacob went on his way , and the angels of God met him .
32 : 2 And when Jacob saw them , he said , This is God ' s host : and he called the name of that place Mahanaim .
32 : 3 And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir , the country of Edom .
32 : 4 And he commanded them , saying , Thus shall ye speak unto my lord Esau ; Thy servant Jacob saith thus , I have sojourned with Laban , and stayed there until now : 32 : 5 And I have oxen , and asses , flocks , and menservants , and womenservants : and I have sent to tell my lord , that I may find grace in thy sight .
32 : 6 And the messengers returned to Jacob , saying , We came to thy brother Esau , and also he cometh to meet thee , and four hundred men with him .
32 : 7 Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed : and he divided the people that was with him , and the flocks , and herds , and the camels , into two bands ; 32 : 8 And said , If Esau come to the one company , and smite it , then the other company which is left shall escape .
32 : 9 And Jacob said , O God of my father Abraham , and God of my father Isaac , the LORD which saidst unto me , Return unto thy country , and to thy kindred , and I will deal well with thee : 32 : 10 I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies , and of all the truth , which thou hast shewed unto thy servant ; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan ; and now I am become two bands .
32 : 11 Deliver me , I pray thee , from the hand of my brother , from the hand of Esau : for I fear him , lest he will come and smite me , and the mother with the children .
32 : 12 And thou saidst , I will surely do thee good , and make thy seed as the sand of the sea , which cannot be numbered for multitude .
32 : 13 And he lodged there that same night ; and took of that which came to his hand a present for Esau his brother ; 32 : 14 Two hundred she goats , and twenty he goats , two hundred ewes , and twenty rams , 32 : 15 Thirty milch camels with their colts , forty kine , and ten bulls , twenty she asses , and ten foals .
32 : 16 And he delivered them into the hand of his servants , every drove by themselves ; and said unto his servants , Pass over before me , and put a space betwixt drove and drove .
32 : 17 And he commanded the foremost , saying , When Esau my brother meeteth thee , and asketh thee , saying , Whose art thou ?
and whither goest thou ?
and whose are these before thee ?
32 : 18 Then thou shalt say , They be thy servant Jacob ' s ; it is a present sent unto my lord Esau : and , behold , also he is behind us .
32 : 19 And so commanded he the second , and the third , and all that followed the droves , saying , On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau , when ye find him .
32 : 20 And say ye moreover , Behold , thy servant Jacob is behind us .
For he said , I will appease him with the present that goeth before me , and afterward I will see his face ; peradventure he will accept of me .
32 : 21 So went the present over before him : and himself lodged that night in the company .
32 : 22 And he rose up that night , and took his two wives , and his two womenservants , and his eleven sons , and passed over the ford Jabbok .
32 : 23 And he took them , and sent them over the brook , and sent over that he had .
32 : 24 And Jacob was left alone ; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day .
32 : 25 And when he saw that he prevailed not against him , he touched the hollow of his thigh ; and the hollow of Jacob ' s thigh was out of joint , as he wrestled with him .
32 : 26 And he said , Let me go , for the day breaketh .
And he said , I will not let thee go , except thou bless me .
32 : 27 And he said unto him , What is thy name ?
And he said , Jacob .
32 : 28 And he said , Thy name shall be called no more Jacob , but Israel : for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men , and hast prevailed .
32 : 29 And Jacob asked him , and said , Tell me , I pray thee , thy name .
And he said , Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name ?
And he blessed him there .
32 : 30 And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel : for I have seen God face to face , and my life is preserved .
32 : 31 And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him , and he halted upon his thigh .
32 : 32 Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank , which is upon the hollow of the thigh , unto this day : because he touched the hollow of Jacob ' s thigh in the sinew that shrank .
33 : 1 And Jacob lifted up his eyes , and looked , and , behold , Esau came , and with him four hundred men .
And he divided the children unto Leah , and unto Rachel , and unto the two handmaids .
33 : 2 And he put the handmaids and their children foremost , and Leah and her children after , and Rachel and Joseph hindermost .
33 : 3 And he passed over before them , and bowed himself to the ground seven times , until he came near to his brother .
33 : 4 And Esau ran to meet him , and embraced him , and fell on his neck , and kissed him : and they wept .
33 : 5 And he lifted up his eyes , and saw the women and the children ; and said , Who are those with thee ?
And he said , The children which God hath graciously given thy servant .
33 : 6 Then the handmaidens came near , they and their children , and they bowed themselves .
33 : 7 And Leah also with her children came near , and bowed themselves : and after came Joseph near and Rachel , and they bowed themselves .
33 : 8 And he said , What meanest thou by all this drove which I met ?
And he said , These are to find grace in the sight of my lord .
33 : 9 And Esau said , I have enough , my brother ; keep that thou hast unto thyself .
33 : 10 And Jacob said , Nay , I pray thee , if now I have found grace in thy sight , then receive my present at my hand : for therefore I have seen thy face , as though I had seen the face of God , and thou wast pleased with me .
33 : 11 Take , I pray thee , my blessing that is brought to thee ; because God hath dealt graciously with me , and because I have enough .
And he urged him , and he took it .
33 : 12 And he said , Let us take our journey , and let us go , and I will go before thee .
33 : 13 And he said unto him , My lord knoweth that the children are tender , and the flocks and herds with young are with me : and if men should overdrive them one day , all the flock will die .
33 : 14 Let my lord , I pray thee , pass over before his servant : and I will lead on softly , according as the cattle that goeth before me and the children be able to endure , until I come unto my lord unto Seir .
33 : 15 And Esau said , Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that are with me .
And he said , What needeth it ?
let me find grace in the sight of my lord .
33 : 16 So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir .
33 : 17 And Jacob journeyed to Succoth , and built him an house , and made booths for his cattle : therefore the name of the place is called Succoth .
33 : 18 And Jacob came to Shalem , a city of Shechem , which is in the land of Canaan , when he came from Padanaram ; and pitched his tent before the city .
33 : 19 And he bought a parcel of a field , where he had spread his tent , at the hand of the children of Hamor , Shechem ' s father , for an hundred pieces of money .
33 : 20 And he erected there an altar , and called it EleloheIsrael .
34 : 1 And Dinah the daughter of Leah , which she bare unto Jacob , went out to see the daughters of the land .
34 : 2 And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite , prince of the country , saw her , he took her , and lay with her , and defiled her .
34 : 3 And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob , and he loved the damsel , and spake kindly unto the damsel .
34 : 4 And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor , saying , Get me this damsel to wife .
34 : 5 And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter : now his sons were with his cattle in the field : and Jacob held his peace until they were come .
34 : 6 And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune with him .
34 : 7 And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it : and the men were grieved , and they were very wroth , because he had wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob ' s daughter : which thing ought not to be done .
34 : 8 And Hamor communed with them , saying , The soul of my son Shechem longeth for your daughter : I pray you give her him to wife .
34 : 9 And make ye marriages with us , and give your daughters unto us , and take our daughters unto you .
34 : 10 And ye shall dwell with us : and the land shall be before you ; dwell and trade ye therein , and get you possessions therein .
34 : 11 And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren , Let me find grace in your eyes , and what ye shall say unto me I will give .
34 : 12 Ask me never so much dowry and gift , and I will give according as ye shall say unto me : but give me the damsel to wife .
34 : 13 And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully , and said , because he had defiled Dinah their sister : 34 : 14 And they said unto them , We cannot do this thing , to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised ; for that were a reproach unto us : 34 : 15 But in this will we consent unto you : If ye will be as we be , that every male of you be circumcised ; 34 : 16 Then will we give our daughters unto you , and we will take your daughters to us , and we will dwell with you , and we will become one people .
34 : 17 But if ye will not hearken unto us , to be circumcised ; then will we take our daughter , and we will be gone .
34 : 18 And their words pleased Hamor , and Shechem Hamor ' s son .
34 : 19 And the young man deferred not to do the thing , because he had delight in Jacob ' s daughter : and he was more honourable than all the house of his father .
34 : 20 And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city , and communed with the men of their city , saying , 34 : 21 These men are peaceable with us ; therefore let them dwell in the land , and trade therein ; for the land , behold , it is large enough for them ; let us take their daughters to us for wives , and let us give them our daughters .
34 : 22 Only herein will the men consent unto us for to dwell with us , to be one people , if every male among us be circumcised , as they are circumcised .
34 : 23 Shall not their cattle and their substance and every beast of their ' s be our ' s ?
only let us consent unto them , and they will dwell with us .
34 : 24 And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went out of the gate of his city ; and every male was circumcised , all that went out of the gate of his city .
34 : 25 And it came to pass on the third day , when they were sore , that two of the sons of Jacob , Simeon and Levi , Dinah ' s brethren , took each man his sword , and came upon the city boldly , and slew all the males .
34 : 26 And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword , and took Dinah out of Shechem ' s house , and went out .
34 : 27 The sons of Jacob came upon the slain , and spoiled the city , because they had defiled their sister .
34 : 28 They took their sheep , and their oxen , and their asses , and that which was in the city , and that which was in the field , 34 : 29 And all their wealth , and all their little ones , and their wives took they captive , and spoiled even all that was in the house .
34 : 30 And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi , Ye have troubled me to make me to stink among the inhabitants of the land , among the Canaanites and the Perizzites : and I being few in number , they shall gather themselves together against me , and slay me ; and I shall be destroyed , I and my house .
34 : 31 And they said , Should he deal with our sister as with an harlot ?
35 : 1 And God said unto Jacob , Arise , go up to Bethel , and dwell there : and make there an altar unto God , that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother .
35 : 2 Then Jacob said unto his household , and to all that were with him , Put away the strange gods that are among you , and be clean , and change your garments : 35 : 3 And let us arise , and go up to Bethel ; and I will make there an altar unto God , who answered me in the day of my distress , and was with me in the way which I went .
35 : 4 And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand , and all their earrings which were in their ears ; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem .
35 : 5 And they journeyed : and the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about them , and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob .
35 : 6 So Jacob came to Luz , which is in the land of Canaan , that is , Bethel , he and all the people that were with him .
35 : 7 And he built there an altar , and called the place Elbethel : because there God appeared unto him , when he fled from the face of his brother .
35 : 8 But Deborah Rebekah ' s nurse died , and she was buried beneath Bethel under an oak : and the name of it was called Allonbachuth .
35 : 9 And God appeared unto Jacob again , when he came out of Padanaram , and blessed him .
35 : 10 And God said unto him , Thy name is Jacob : thy name shall not be called any more Jacob , but Israel shall be thy name : and he called his name Israel .
35 : 11 And God said unto him , I am God Almighty : be fruitful and multiply ; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee , and kings shall come out of thy loins ; 35 : 12 And the land which I gave Abraham and Isaac , to thee I will give it , and to thy seed after thee will I give the land .
35 : 13 And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him .
35 : 14 And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him , even a pillar of stone : and he poured a drink offering thereon , and he poured oil thereon .
35 : 15 And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him , Bethel .
35 : 16 And they journeyed from Bethel ; and there was but a little way to come to Ephrath : and Rachel travailed , and she had hard labour .
35 : 17 And it came to pass , when she was in hard labour , that the midwife said unto her , Fear not ; thou shalt have this son also .
35 : 18 And it came to pass , as her soul was in departing , ( for she died ) that she called his name Benoni : but his father called him Benjamin .
35 : 19 And Rachel died , and was buried in the way to Ephrath , which is Bethlehem .
35 : 20 And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave : that is the pillar of Rachel ' s grave unto this day .
35 : 21 And Israel journeyed , and spread his tent beyond the tower of Edar .
35 : 22 And it came to pass , when Israel dwelt in that land , that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father ' s concubine : and Israel heard it .
Now the sons of Jacob were twelve : 35 : 23 The sons of Leah ; Reuben , Jacob ' s firstborn , and Simeon , and Levi , and Judah , and Issachar , and Zebulun : 35 : 24 The sons of Rachel ; Joseph , and Benjamin : 35 : 25 And the sons of Bilhah , Rachel ' s handmaid ; Dan , and Naphtali : 35 : 26 And the sons of Zilpah , Leah ' s handmaid : Gad , and Asher : these are the sons of Jacob , which were born to him in Padanaram .
35 : 27 And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre , unto the city of Arbah , which is Hebron , where Abraham and Isaac sojourned .
35 : 28 And the days of Isaac were an hundred and fourscore years .
35 : 29 And Isaac gave up the ghost , and died , and was gathered unto his people , being old and full of days : and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him .
36 : 1 Now these are the generations of Esau , who is Edom .
36 : 2 Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan ; Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite , and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite ; 36 : 3 And Bashemath Ishmael ' s daughter , sister of Nebajoth .
36 : 4 And Adah bare to Esau Eliphaz ; and Bashemath bare Reuel ; 36 : 5 And Aholibamah bare Jeush , and Jaalam , and Korah : these are the sons of Esau , which were born unto him in the land of Canaan .
36 : 6 And Esau took his wives , and his sons , and his daughters , and all the persons of his house , and his cattle , and all his beasts , and all his substance , which he had got in the land of Canaan ; and went into the country from the face of his brother Jacob .
36 : 7 For their riches were more than that they might dwell together ; and the land wherein they were strangers could not bear them because of their cattle .
36 : 8 Thus dwelt Esau in mount Seir : Esau is Edom .
36 : 9 And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in mount Seir : 36 : 10 These are the names of Esau ' s sons ; Eliphaz the son of Adah the wife of Esau , Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife of Esau .
36 : 11 And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman , Omar , Zepho , and Gatam , and Kenaz .
36 : 12 And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau ' s son ; and she bare to Eliphaz Amalek : these were the sons of Adah Esau ' s wife .
36 : 13 And these are the sons of Reuel ; Nahath , and Zerah , Shammah , and Mizzah : these were the sons of Bashemath Esau ' s wife .
36 : 14 And these were the sons of Aholibamah , the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon , Esau ' s wife : and she bare to Esau Jeush , and Jaalam , and Korah .
36 : 15 These were dukes of the sons of Esau : the sons of Eliphaz the firstborn son of Esau ; duke Teman , duke Omar , duke Zepho , duke Kenaz , 36 : 16 Duke Korah , duke Gatam , and duke Amalek : these are the dukes that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom ; these were the sons of Adah .
36 : 17 And these are the sons of Reuel Esau ' s son ; duke Nahath , duke Zerah , duke Shammah , duke Mizzah : these are the dukes that came of Reuel in the land of Edom ; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau ' s wife .
36 : 18 And these are the sons of Aholibamah Esau ' s wife ; duke Jeush , duke Jaalam , duke Korah : these were the dukes that came of Aholibamah the daughter of Anah , Esau ' s wife .
36 : 19 These are the sons of Esau , who is Edom , and these are their dukes .
36 : 20 These are the sons of Seir the Horite , who inhabited the land ; Lotan , and Shobal , and Zibeon , and Anah , 36 : 21 And Dishon , and Ezer , and Dishan : these are the dukes of the Horites , the children of Seir in the land of Edom .
36 : 22 And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam ; and Lotan ' s sister was Timna .
36 : 23 And the children of Shobal were these ; Alvan , and Manahath , and Ebal , Shepho , and Onam .
36 : 24 And these are the children of Zibeon ; both Ajah , and Anah : this was that Anah that found the mules in the wilderness , as he fed the asses of Zibeon his father .
36 : 25 And the children of Anah were these ; Dishon , and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah .
36 : 26 And these are the children of Dishon ; Hemdan , and Eshban , and Ithran , and Cheran .
36 : 27 The children of Ezer are these ; Bilhan , and Zaavan , and Akan .
36 : 28 The children of Dishan are these ; Uz , and Aran .
36 : 29 These are the dukes that came of the Horites ; duke Lotan , duke Shobal , duke Zibeon , duke Anah , 36 : 30 Duke Dishon , duke Ezer , duke Dishan : these are the dukes that came of Hori , among their dukes in the land of Seir .
36 : 31 And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom , before there reigned any king over the children of Israel .
36 : 32 And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom : and the name of his city was Dinhabah .
36 : 33 And Bela died , and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead .
36 : 34 And Jobab died , and Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his stead .
36 : 35 And Husham died , and Hadad the son of Bedad , who smote Midian in the field of Moab , reigned in his stead : and the name of his city was Avith .
36 : 36 And Hadad died , and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead .
36 : 37 And Samlah died , and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead .
36 : 38 And Saul died , and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead .
36 : 39 And Baalhanan the son of Achbor died , and Hadar reigned in his stead : and the name of his city was Pau ; and his wife ' s name was Mehetabel , the daughter of Matred , the daughter of Mezahab .
36 : 40 And these are the names of the dukes that came of Esau , according to their families , after their places , by their names ; duke Timnah , duke Alvah , duke Jetheth , 36 : 41 Duke Aholibamah , duke Elah , duke Pinon , 36 : 42 Duke Kenaz , duke Teman , duke Mibzar , 36 : 43 Duke Magdiel , duke Iram : these be the dukes of Edom , according to their habitations in the land of their possession : he is Esau the father of the Edomites .
37 : 1 And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger , in the land of Canaan .
37 : 2 These are the generations of Jacob .
Joseph , being seventeen years old , was feeding the flock with his brethren ; and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah , and with the sons of Zilpah , his father ' s wives : and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report .
37 : 3 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children , because he was the son of his old age : and he made him a coat of many colours .
37 : 4 And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren , they hated him , and could not speak peaceably unto him .
37 : 5 And Joseph dreamed a dream , and he told it his brethren : and they hated him yet the more .
37 : 6 And he said unto them , Hear , I pray you , this dream which I have dreamed : 37 : 7 For , behold , we were binding sheaves in the field , and , lo , my sheaf arose , and also stood upright ; and , behold , your sheaves stood round about , and made obeisance to my sheaf .
37 : 8 And his brethren said to him , Shalt thou indeed reign over us ?
or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us ?
And they hated him yet the more for his dreams , and for his words .
37 : 9 And he dreamed yet another dream , and told it his brethren , and said , Behold , I have dreamed a dream more ; and , behold , the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me .
37 : 10 And he told it to his father , and to his brethren : and his father rebuked him , and said unto him , What is this dream that thou hast dreamed ?
Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth ?
37 : 11 And his brethren envied him ; but his father observed the saying .
37 : 12 And his brethren went to feed their father ' s flock in Shechem .
37 : 13 And Israel said unto Joseph , Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem ?
come , and I will send thee unto them .
And he said to him , Here am I .
37 : 14 And he said to him , Go , I pray thee , see whether it be well with thy brethren , and well with the flocks ; and bring me word again .
So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron , and he came to Shechem .
37 : 15 And a certain man found him , and , behold , he was wandering in the field : and the man asked him , saying , What seekest thou ?
37 : 16 And he said , I seek my brethren : tell me , I pray thee , where they feed their flocks .
37 : 17 And the man said , They are departed hence ; for I heard them say , Let us go to Dothan .
And Joseph went after his brethren , and found them in Dothan .
37 : 18 And when they saw him afar off , even before he came near unto them , they conspired against him to slay him .
37 : 19 And they said one to another , Behold , this dreamer cometh .
37 : 20 Come now therefore , and let us slay him , and cast him into some pit , and we will say , Some evil beast hath devoured him : and we shall see what will become of his dreams .
37 : 21 And Reuben heard it , and he delivered him out of their hands ; and said , Let us not kill him .
37 : 22 And Reuben said unto them , Shed no blood , but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness , and lay no hand upon him ; that he might rid him out of their hands , to deliver him to his father again .
37 : 23 And it came to pass , when Joseph was come unto his brethren , that they stript Joseph out of his coat , his coat of many colours that was on him ; 37 : 24 And they took him , and cast him into a pit : and the pit was empty , there was no water in it .
37 : 25 And they sat down to eat bread : and they lifted up their eyes and looked , and , behold , a company of Ishmeelites came from Gilead with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh , going to carry it down to Egypt .
37 : 26 And Judah said unto his brethren , What profit is it if we slay our brother , and conceal his blood ?
37 : 27 Come , and let us sell him to the Ishmeelites , and let not our hand be upon him ; for he is our brother and our flesh .
And his brethren were content .
37 : 28 Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen ; and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit , and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites for twenty pieces of silver : and they brought Joseph into Egypt .
37 : 29 And Reuben returned unto the pit ; and , behold , Joseph was not in the pit ; and he rent his clothes .
37 : 30 And he returned unto his brethren , and said , The child is not ; and I , whither shall I go ?
37 : 31 And they took Joseph ' s coat , and killed a kid of the goats , and dipped the coat in the blood ; 37 : 32 And they sent the coat of many colours , and they brought it to their father ; and said , This have we found : know now whether it be thy son ' s coat or no .
37 : 33 And he knew it , and said , It is my son ' s coat ; an evil beast hath devoured him ; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces .
37 : 34 And Jacob rent his clothes , and put sackcloth upon his loins , and mourned for his son many days .
37 : 35 And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him ; but he refused to be comforted ; and he said , For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning .
Thus his father wept for him .
37 : 36 And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar , an officer of Pharaoh ' s , and captain of the guard .
38 : 1 And it came to pass at that time , that Judah went down from his brethren , and turned in to a certain Adullamite , whose name was Hirah .
38 : 2 And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite , whose name was Shuah ; and he took her , and went in unto her .
38 : 3 And she conceived , and bare a son ; and he called his name Er .
38 : 4 And she conceived again , and bare a son ; and she called his name Onan .
38 : 5 And she yet again conceived , and bare a son ; and called his name Shelah : and he was at Chezib , when she bare him .
38 : 6 And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn , whose name was Tamar .
38 : 7 And Er , Judah ' s firstborn , was wicked in the sight of the LORD ; and the LORD slew him .
38 : 8 And Judah said unto Onan , Go in unto thy brother ' s wife , and marry her , and raise up seed to thy brother .
38 : 9 And Onan knew that the seed should not be his ; and it came to pass , when he went in unto his brother ' s wife , that he spilled it on the ground , lest that he should give seed to his brother .
38 : 10 And the thing which he did displeased the LORD : wherefore he slew him also .
38 : 11 Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter in law , Remain a widow at thy father ' s house , till Shelah my son be grown : for he said , Lest peradventure he die also , as his brethren did .
And Tamar went and dwelt in her father ' s house .
38 : 12 And in process of time the daughter of Shuah Judah ' s wife died ; and Judah was comforted , and went up unto his sheepshearers to Timnath , he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite .
38 : 13 And it was told Tamar , saying , Behold thy father in law goeth up to Timnath to shear his sheep .
38 : 14 And she put her widow ' s garments off from her , and covered her with a vail , and wrapped herself , and sat in an open place , which is by the way to Timnath ; for she saw that Shelah was grown , and she was not given unto him to wife .
38 : 15 When Judah saw her , he thought her to be an harlot ; because she had covered her face .
38 : 16 And he turned unto her by the way , and said , Go to , I pray thee , let me come in unto thee ; ( for he knew not that she was his daughter in law .)
And she said , What wilt thou give me , that thou mayest come in unto me ?
38 : 17 And he said , I will send thee a kid from the flock .
And she said , Wilt thou give me a pledge , till thou send it ?
38 : 18 And he said , What pledge shall I give thee ?
And she said , Thy signet , and thy bracelets , and thy staff that is in thine hand .
And he gave it her , and came in unto her , and she conceived by him .
38 : 19 And she arose , and went away , and laid by her vail from her , and put on the garments of her widowhood .
38 : 20 And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite , to receive his pledge from the woman ' s hand : but he found her not .
38 : 21 Then he asked the men of that place , saying , Where is the harlot , that was openly by the way side ?
And they said , There was no harlot in this place .
38 : 22 And he returned to Judah , and said , I cannot find her ; and also the men of the place said , that there was no harlot in this place .
38 : 23 And Judah said , Let her take it to her , lest we be shamed : behold , I sent this kid , and thou hast not found her .
38 : 24 And it came to pass about three months after , that it was told Judah , saying , Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the harlot ; and also , behold , she is with child by whoredom .
And Judah said , Bring her forth , and let her be burnt .
38 : 25 When she was brought forth , she sent to her father in law , saying , By the man , whose these are , am I with child : and she said , Discern , I pray thee , whose are these , the signet , and bracelets , and staff .
38 : 26 And Judah acknowledged them , and said , She hath been more righteous than I ; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son .
And he knew her again no more .
38 : 27 And it came to pass in the time of her travail , that , behold , twins were in her womb .
38 : 28 And it came to pass , when she travailed , that the one put out his hand : and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet thread , saying , This came out first .
38 : 29 And it came to pass , as he drew back his hand , that , behold , his brother came out : and she said , How hast thou broken forth ?
this breach be upon thee : therefore his name was called Pharez .
38 : 30 And afterward came out his brother , that had the scarlet thread upon his hand : and his name was called Zarah .
39 : 1 And Joseph was brought down to Egypt ; and Potiphar , an officer of Pharaoh , captain of the guard , an Egyptian , bought him of the hands of the Ishmeelites , which had brought him down thither .
39 : 2 And the LORD was with Joseph , and he was a prosperous man ; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian .
39 : 3 And his master saw that the LORD was with him , and that the LORD made all that he did to prosper in his hand .
39 : 4 And Joseph found grace in his sight , and he served him : and he made him overseer over his house , and all that he had he put into his hand .
39 : 5 And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer in his house , and over all that he had , that the LORD blessed the Egyptian ' s house for Joseph ' s sake ; and the blessing of the LORD was upon all that he had in the house , and in the field .
39 : 6 And he left all that he had in Joseph ' s hand ; and he knew not ought he had , save the bread which he did eat .
And Joseph was a goodly person , and well favoured .
39 : 7 And it came to pass after these things , that his master ' s wife cast her eyes upon Joseph ; and she said , Lie with me .
39 : 8 But he refused , and said unto his master ' s wife , Behold , my master wotteth not what is with me in the house , and he hath committed all that he hath to my hand ; 39 : 9 There is none greater in this house than I ; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee , because thou art his wife : how then can I do this great wickedness , and sin against God ?
39 : 10 And it came to pass , as she spake to Joseph day by day , that he hearkened not unto her , to lie by her , or to be with her .
39 : 11 And it came to pass about this time , that Joseph went into the house to do his business ; and there was none of the men of the house there within .
39 : 12 And she caught him by his garment , saying , Lie with me : and he left his garment in her hand , and fled , and got him out .
39 : 13 And it came to pass , when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand , and was fled forth , 39 : 14 That she called unto the men of her house , and spake unto them , saying , See , he hath brought in an Hebrew unto us to mock us ; he came in unto me to lie with me , and I cried with a loud voice : 39 : 15 And it came to pass , when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried , that he left his garment with me , and fled , and got him out .
39 : 16 And she laid up his garment by her , until his lord came home .
39 : 17 And she spake unto him according to these words , saying , The Hebrew servant , which thou hast brought unto us , came in unto me to mock me : 39 : 18 And it came to pass , as I lifted up my voice and cried , that he left his garment with me , and fled out .
39 : 19 And it came to pass , when his master heard the words of his wife , which she spake unto him , saying , After this manner did thy servant to me ; that his wrath was kindled .
39 : 20 And Joseph ' s master took him , and put him into the prison , a place where the king ' s prisoners were bound : and he was there in the prison .
39 : 21 But the LORD was with Joseph , and shewed him mercy , and gave him favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison .
39 : 22 And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph ' s hand all the prisoners that were in the prison ; and whatsoever they did there , he was the doer of it .
39 : 23 The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing that was under his hand ; because the LORD was with him , and that which he did , the LORD made it to prosper .
40 : 1 And it came to pass after these things , that the butler of the king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt .
40 : 2 And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers , against the chief of the butlers , and against the chief of the bakers .
40 : 3 And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard , into the prison , the place where Joseph was bound .
40 : 4 And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them , and he served them : and they continued a season in ward .
40 : 5 And they dreamed a dream both of them , each man his dream in one night , each man according to the interpretation of his dream , the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt , which were bound in the prison .
40 : 6 And Joseph came in unto them in the morning , and looked upon them , and , behold , they were sad .
40 : 7 And he asked Pharaoh ' s officers that were with him in the ward of his lord ' s house , saying , Wherefore look ye so sadly to day ?
40 : 8 And they said unto him , We have dreamed a dream , and there is no interpreter of it .
And Joseph said unto them , Do not interpretations belong to God ?
tell me them , I pray you .
40 : 9 And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph , and said to him , In my dream , behold , a vine was before me ; 40 : 10 And in the vine were three branches : and it was as though it budded , and her blossoms shot forth ; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes : 40 : 11 And Pharaoh ' s cup was in my hand : and I took the grapes , and pressed them into Pharaoh ' s cup , and I gave the cup into Pharaoh ' s hand .
40 : 12 And Joseph said unto him , This is the interpretation of it : The three branches are three days : 40 : 13 Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head , and restore thee unto thy place : and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh ' s cup into his hand , after the former manner when thou wast his butler .
40 : 14 But think on me when it shall be well with thee , and shew kindness , I pray thee , unto me , and make mention of me unto Pharaoh , and bring me out of this house : 40 : 15 For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews : and here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon .
40 : 16 When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good , he said unto Joseph , I also was in my dream , and , behold , I had three white baskets on my head : 40 : 17 And in the uppermost basket there was of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh ; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head .
40 : 18 And Joseph answered and said , This is the interpretation thereof : The three baskets are three days : 40 : 19 Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee , and shall hang thee on a tree ; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee .
40 : 20 And it came to pass the third day , which was Pharaoh ' s birthday , that he made a feast unto all his servants : and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants .
40 : 21 And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again ; and he gave the cup into Pharaoh ' s hand : 40 : 22 But he hanged the chief baker : as Joseph had interpreted to them .
40 : 23 Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph , but forgat him .
41 : 1 And it came to pass at the end of two full years , that Pharaoh dreamed : and , behold , he stood by the river .
41 : 2 And , behold , there came up out of the river seven well favoured kine and fatfleshed ; and they fed in a meadow .
41 : 3 And , behold , seven other kine came up after them out of the river , ill favoured and leanfleshed ; and stood by the other kine upon the brink of the river .
41 : 4 And the ill favoured and leanfleshed kine did eat up the seven well favoured and fat kine .
So Pharaoh awoke .
41 : 5 And he slept and dreamed the second time : and , behold , seven ears of corn came up upon one stalk , rank and good .
41 : 6 And , behold , seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind sprung up after them .
41 : 7 And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears .
And Pharaoh awoke , and , behold , it was a dream .
41 : 8 And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled ; and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt , and all the wise men thereof : and Pharaoh told them his dream ; but there was none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh .
41 : 9 Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh , saying , I do remember my faults this day : 41 : 10 Pharaoh was wroth with his servants , and put me in ward in the captain of the guard ' s house , both me and the chief baker : 41 : 11 And we dreamed a dream in one night , I and he ; we dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream .
41 : 12 And there was there with us a young man , an Hebrew , servant to the captain of the guard ; and we told him , and he interpreted to us our dreams ; to each man according to his dream he did interpret .
41 : 13 And it came to pass , as he interpreted to us , so it was ; me he restored unto mine office , and him he hanged .
41 : 14 Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph , and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon : and he shaved himself , and changed his raiment , and came in unto Pharaoh .
41 : 15 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph , I have dreamed a dream , and there is none that can interpret it : and I have heard say of thee , that thou canst understand a dream to interpret it .
41 : 16 And Joseph answered Pharaoh , saying , It is not in me : God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace .
41 : 17 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph , In my dream , behold , I stood upon the bank of the river : 41 : 18 And , behold , there came up out of the river seven kine , fatfleshed and well favoured ; and they fed in a meadow : 41 : 19 And , behold , seven other kine came up after them , poor and very ill favoured and leanfleshed , such as I never saw in all the land of Egypt for badness : 41 : 20 And the lean and the ill favoured kine did eat up the first seven fat kine : 41 : 21 And when they had eaten them up , it could not be known that they had eaten them ; but they were still ill favoured , as at the beginning .
So I awoke .
41 : 22 And I saw in my dream , and , behold , seven ears came up in one stalk , full and good : 41 : 23 And , behold , seven ears , withered , thin , and blasted with the east wind , sprung up after them : 41 : 24 And the thin ears devoured the seven good ears : and I told this unto the magicians ; but there was none that could declare it to me .
41 : 25 And Joseph said unto Pharaoh , The dream of Pharaoh is one : God hath shewed Pharaoh what he is about to do .
41 : 26 The seven good kine are seven years ; and the seven good ears are seven years : the dream is one .
41 : 27 And the seven thin and ill favoured kine that came up after them are seven years ; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind shall be seven years of famine .
41 : 28 This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh : What God is about to do he sheweth unto Pharaoh .
41 : 29 Behold , there come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt : 41 : 30 And there shall arise after them seven years of famine ; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt ; and the famine shall consume the land ; 41 : 31 And the plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of that famine following ; for it shall be very grievous .
41 : 32 And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice ; it is because the thing is established by God , and God will shortly bring it to pass .
41 : 33 Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise , and set him over the land of Egypt .
41 : 34 Let Pharaoh do this , and let him appoint officers over the land , and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous years .
41 : 35 And let them gather all the food of those good years that come , and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh , and let them keep food in the cities .
41 : 36 And that food shall be for store to the land against the seven years of famine , which shall be in the land of Egypt ; that the land perish not through the famine .
41 : 37 And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh , and in the eyes of all his servants .
41 : 38 And Pharaoh said unto his servants , Can we find such a one as this is , a man in whom the Spirit of God is ?
41 : 39 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph , Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this , there is none so discreet and wise as thou art : 41 : 40 Thou shalt be over my house , and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled : only in the throne will I be greater than thou .
41 : 41 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph , See , I have set thee over all the land of Egypt .
41 : 42 And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand , and put it upon Joseph ' s hand , and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen , and put a gold chain about his neck ; 41 : 43 And he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had ; and they cried before him , Bow the knee : and he made him ruler over all the land of Egypt .
41 : 44 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph , I am Pharaoh , and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt .
41 : 45 And Pharaoh called Joseph ' s name Zaphnathpaaneah ; and he gave him to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On .
And Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt .
41 : 46 And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt .
And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh , and went throughout all the land of Egypt .
41 : 47 And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by handfuls .
41 : 48 And he gathered up all the food of the seven years , which were in the land of Egypt , and laid up the food in the cities : the food of the field , which was round about every city , laid he up in the same .
41 : 49 And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea , very much , until he left numbering ; for it was without number .
41 : 50 And unto Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine came , which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him .
41 : 51 And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh : For God , said he , hath made me forget all my toil , and all my father ' s house .
41 : 52 And the name of the second called he Ephraim : For God hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction .
41 : 53 And the seven years of plenteousness , that was in the land of Egypt , were ended .
41 : 54 And the seven years of dearth began to come , according as Joseph had said : and the dearth was in all lands ; but in all the land of Egypt there was bread .
41 : 55 And when all the land of Egypt was famished , the people cried to Pharaoh for bread : and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians , Go unto Joseph ; what he saith to you , do .
41 : 56 And the famine was over all the face of the earth : and Joseph opened all the storehouses , and sold unto the Egyptians ; and the famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt .
41 : 57 And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn ; because that the famine was so sore in all lands .
42 : 1 Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt , Jacob said unto his sons , Why do ye look one upon another ?
42 : 2 And he said , Behold , I have heard that there is corn in Egypt : get you down thither , and buy for us from thence ; that we may live , and not die .
42 : 3 And Joseph ' s ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt .
42 : 4 But Benjamin , Joseph ' s brother , Jacob sent not with his brethren ; for he said , Lest peradventure mischief befall him .
42 : 5 And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came : for the famine was in the land of Canaan .
42 : 6 And Joseph was the governor over the land , and he it was that sold to all the people of the land : and Joseph ' s brethren came , and bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth .
42 : 7 And Joseph saw his brethren , and he knew them , but made himself strange unto them , and spake roughly unto them ; and he said unto them , Whence come ye ?
And they said , From the land of Canaan to buy food .
42 : 8 And Joseph knew his brethren , but they knew not him .
42 : 9 And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them , and said unto them , Ye are spies ; to see the nakedness of the land ye are come .
42 : 10 And they said unto him , Nay , my lord , but to buy food are thy servants come .
42 : 11 We are all one man ' s sons ; we are true men , thy servants are no spies .
42 : 12 And he said unto them , Nay , but to see the nakedness of the land ye are come .
42 : 13 And they said , Thy servants are twelve brethren , the sons of one man in the land of Canaan ; and , behold , the youngest is this day with our father , and one is not .
42 : 14 And Joseph said unto them , That is it that I spake unto you , saying , Ye are spies : 42 : 15 Hereby ye shall be proved : By the life of Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence , except your youngest brother come hither .
42 : 16 Send one of you , and let him fetch your brother , and ye shall be kept in prison , that your words may be proved , whether there be any truth in you : or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies .
42 : 17 And he put them all together into ward three days .
42 : 18 And Joseph said unto them the third day , This do , and live ; for I fear God : 42 : 19 If ye be true men , let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison : go ye , carry corn for the famine of your houses : 42 : 20 But bring your youngest brother unto me ; so shall your words be verified , and ye shall not die .
And they did so .
42 : 21 And they said one to another , We are verily guilty concerning our brother , in that we saw the anguish of his soul , when he besought us , and we would not hear ; therefore is this distress come upon us .
42 : 22 And Reuben answered them , saying , Spake I not unto you , saying , Do not sin against the child ; and ye would not hear ?
therefore , behold , also his blood is required .
42 : 23 And they knew not that Joseph understood them ; for he spake unto them by an interpreter .
42 : 24 And he turned himself about from them , and wept ; and returned to them again , and communed with them , and took from them Simeon , and bound him before their eyes .
42 : 25 Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn , and to restore every man ' s money into his sack , and to give them provision for the way : and thus did he unto them .
42 : 26 And they laded their asses with the corn , and departed thence .
42 : 27 And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the inn , he espied his money ; for , behold , it was in his sack ' s mouth .
42 : 28 And he said unto his brethren , My money is restored ; and , lo , it is even in my sack : and their heart failed them , and they were afraid , saying one to another , What is this that God hath done unto us ?
42 : 29 And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan , and told him all that befell unto them ; saying , 42 : 30 The man , who is the lord of the land , spake roughly to us , and took us for spies of the country .
42 : 31 And we said unto him , We are true men ; we are no spies : 42 : 32 We be twelve brethren , sons of our father ; one is not , and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan .
42 : 33 And the man , the lord of the country , said unto us , Hereby shall I know that ye are true men ; leave one of your brethren here with me , and take food for the famine of your households , and be gone : 42 : 34 And bring your youngest brother unto me : then shall I know that ye are no spies , but that ye are true men : so will I deliver you your brother , and ye shall traffick in the land .
42 : 35 And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks , that , behold , every man ' s bundle of money was in his sack : and when both they and their father saw the bundles of money , they were afraid .
42 : 36 And Jacob their father said unto them , Me have ye bereaved of my children : Joseph is not , and Simeon is not , and ye will take Benjamin away : all these things are against me .
42 : 37 And Reuben spake unto his father , saying , Slay my two sons , if I bring him not to thee : deliver him into my hand , and I will bring him to thee again .
42 : 38 And he said , My son shall not go down with you ; for his brother is dead , and he is left alone : if mischief befall him by the way in the which ye go , then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave .
43 : 1 And the famine was sore in the land .
43 : 2 And it came to pass , when they had eaten up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt , their father said unto them , Go again , buy us a little food .
43 : 3 And Judah spake unto him , saying , The man did solemnly protest unto us , saying , Ye shall not see my face , except your brother be with you .
43 : 4 If thou wilt send our brother with us , we will go down and buy thee food : 43 : 5 But if thou wilt not send him , we will not go down : for the man said unto us , Ye shall not see my face , except your brother be with you .
43 : 6 And Israel said , Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me , as to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother ?
43 : 7 And they said , The man asked us straitly of our state , and of our kindred , saying , Is your father yet alive ?
have ye another brother ?
and we told him according to the tenor of these words : could we certainly know that he would say , Bring your brother down ?
43 : 8 And Judah said unto Israel his father , Send the lad with me , and we will arise and go ; that we may live , and not die , both we , and thou , and also our little ones .
43 : 9 I will be surety for him ; of my hand shalt thou require him : if I bring him not unto thee , and set him before thee , then let me bear the blame for ever : 43 : 10 For except we had lingered , surely now we had returned this second time .
43 : 11 And their father Israel said unto them , If it must be so now , do this ; take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels , and carry down the man a present , a little balm , and a little honey , spices , and myrrh , nuts , and almonds : 43 : 12 And take double money in your hand ; and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks , carry it again in your hand ; peradventure it was an oversight : 43 : 13 Take also your brother , and arise , go again unto the man : 43 : 14 And God Almighty give you mercy before the man , that he may send away your other brother , and Benjamin .
If I be bereaved of my children , I am bereaved .
43 : 15 And the men took that present , and they took double money in their hand and Benjamin ; and rose up , and went down to Egypt , and stood before Joseph .
43 : 16 And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them , he said to the ruler of his house , Bring these men home , and slay , and make ready ; for these men shall dine with me at noon .
43 : 17 And the man did as Joseph bade ; and the man brought the men into Joseph ' s house .
43 : 18 And the men were afraid , because they were brought into Joseph ' s house ; and they said , Because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time are we brought in ; that he may seek occasion against us , and fall upon us , and take us for bondmen , and our asses .
43 : 19 And they came near to the steward of Joseph ' s house , and they communed with him at the door of the house , 43 : 20 And said , O sir , we came indeed down at the first time to buy food : 43 : 21 And it came to pass , when we came to the inn , that we opened our sacks , and , behold , every man ' s money was in the mouth of his sack , our money in full weight : and we have brought it again in our hand .
43 : 22 And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food : we cannot tell who put our money in our sacks .
43 : 23 And he said , Peace be to you , fear not : your God , and the God of your father , hath given you treasure in your sacks : I had your money .
And he brought Simeon out unto them .
43 : 24 And the man brought the men into Joseph ' s house , and gave them water , and they washed their feet ; and he gave their asses provender .
43 : 25 And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon : for they heard that they should eat bread there .
43 : 26 And when Joseph came home , they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house , and bowed themselves to him to the earth .
43 : 27 And he asked them of their welfare , and said , Is your father well , the old man of whom ye spake ?
Is he yet alive ?
43 : 28 And they answered , Thy servant our father is in good health , he is yet alive .
And they bowed down their heads , and made obeisance .
43 : 29 And he lifted up his eyes , and saw his brother Benjamin , his mother ' s son , and said , Is this your younger brother , of whom ye spake unto me ?
And he said , God be gracious unto thee , my son .
43 : 30 And Joseph made haste ; for his bowels did yearn upon his brother : and he sought where to weep ; and he entered into his chamber , and wept there .
43 : 31 And he washed his face , and went out , and refrained himself , and said , Set on bread .
43 : 32 And they set on for him by himself , and for them by themselves , and for the Egyptians , which did eat with him , by themselves : because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews ; for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians .
43 : 33 And they sat before him , the firstborn according to his birthright , and the youngest according to his youth : and the men marvelled one at another .
43 : 34 And he took and sent messes unto them from before him : but Benjamin ' s mess was five times so much as any of their ' s .
And they drank , and were merry with him .
44 : 1 And he commanded the steward of his house , saying , Fill the men ' s sacks with food , as much as they can carry , and put every man ' s money in his sack ' s mouth .
44 : 2 And put my cup , the silver cup , in the sack ' s mouth of the youngest , and his corn money .
And he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken .
44 : 3 As soon as the morning was light , the men were sent away , they and their asses .
44 : 4 And when they were gone out of the city , and not yet far off , Joseph said unto his steward , Up , follow after the men ; and when thou dost overtake them , say unto them , Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good ?
44 : 5 Is not this it in which my lord drinketh , and whereby indeed he divineth ?
ye have done evil in so doing .
44 : 6 And he overtook them , and he spake unto them these same words .
44 : 7 And they said unto him , Wherefore saith my lord these words ?
God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing : 44 : 8 Behold , the money , which we found in our sacks ' mouths , we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan : how then should we steal out of thy lord ' s house silver or gold ?
44 : 9 With whomsoever of thy servants it be found , both let him die , and we also will be my lord ' s bondmen .
44 : 10 And he said , Now also let it be according unto your words : he with whom it is found shall be my servant ; and ye shall be blameless .
44 : 11 Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground , and opened every man his sack .
44 : 12 And he searched , and began at the eldest , and left at the youngest : and the cup was found in Benjamin ' s sack .
44 : 13 Then they rent their clothes , and laded every man his ass , and returned to the city .
44 : 14 And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph ' s house ; for he was yet there : and they fell before him on the ground .
44 : 15 And Joseph said unto them , What deed is this that ye have done ?
wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine ?
44 : 16 And Judah said , What shall we say unto my lord ?
what shall we speak ?
or how shall we clear ourselves ?
God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants : behold , we are my lord ' s servants , both we , and he also with whom the cup is found .
44 : 17 And he said , God forbid that I should do so : but the man in whose hand the cup is found , he shall be my servant ; and as for you , get you up in peace unto your father .
44 : 18 Then Judah came near unto him , and said , Oh my lord , let thy servant , I pray thee , speak a word in my lord ' s ears , and let not thine anger burn against thy servant : for thou art even as Pharaoh .
44 : 19 My lord asked his servants , saying , Have ye a father , or a brother ?
44 : 20 And we said unto my lord , We have a father , an old man , and a child of his old age , a little one ; and his brother is dead , and he alone is left of his mother , and his father loveth him .
44 : 21 And thou saidst unto thy servants , Bring him down unto me , that I may set mine eyes upon him .
44 : 22 And we said unto my lord , The lad cannot leave his father : for if he should leave his father , his father would die .
44 : 23 And thou saidst unto thy servants , Except your youngest brother come down with you , ye shall see my face no more .
44 : 24 And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father , we told him the words of my lord .
44 : 25 And our father said , Go again , and buy us a little food .
44 : 26 And we said , We cannot go down : if our youngest brother be with us , then will we go down : for we may not see the man ' s face , except our youngest brother be with us .
44 : 27 And thy servant my father said unto us , Ye know that my wife bare me two sons : 44 : 28 And the one went out from me , and I said , Surely he is torn in pieces ; and I saw him not since : 44 : 29 And if ye take this also from me , and mischief befall him , ye shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave .
44 : 30 Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father , and the lad be not with us ; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad ' s life ; 44 : 31 It shall come to pass , when he seeth that the lad is not with us , that he will die : and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave .
44 : 32 For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father , saying , If I bring him not unto thee , then I shall bear the blame to my father for ever .
44 : 33 Now therefore , I pray thee , let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord ; and let the lad go up with his brethren .
44 : 34 For how shall I go up to my father , and the lad be not with me ?
lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father .
45 : 1 Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood by him ; and he cried , Cause every man to go out from me .
And there stood no man with him , while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren .
45 : 2 And he wept aloud : and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard .
45 : 3 And Joseph said unto his brethren , I am Joseph ; doth my father yet live ?
And his brethren could not answer him ; for they were troubled at his presence .
45 : 4 And Joseph said unto his brethren , Come near to me , I pray you .
And they came near .
And he said , I am Joseph your brother , whom ye sold into Egypt .
45 : 5 Now therefore be not grieved , nor angry with yourselves , that ye sold me hither : for God did send me before you to preserve life .
45 : 6 For these two years hath the famine been in the land : and yet there are five years , in the which there shall neither be earing nor harvest .
45 : 7 And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the earth , and to save your lives by a great deliverance .
45 : 8 So now it was not you that sent me hither , but God : and he hath made me a father to Pharaoh , and lord of all his house , and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt .
45 : 9 Haste ye , and go up to my father , and say unto him , Thus saith thy son Joseph , God hath made me lord of all Egypt : come down unto me , tarry not : 45 : 10 And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen , and thou shalt be near unto me , thou , and thy children , and thy children ' s children , and thy flocks , and thy herds , and all that thou hast : 45 : 11 And there will I nourish thee ; for yet there are five years of famine ; lest thou , and thy household , and all that thou hast , come to poverty .
45 : 12 And , behold , your eyes see , and the eyes of my brother Benjamin , that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you .
45 : 13 And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt , and of all that ye have seen ; and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither .
45 : 14 And he fell upon his brother Benjamin ' s neck , and wept ; and Benjamin wept upon his neck .
45 : 15 Moreover he kissed all his brethren , and wept upon them : and after that his brethren talked with him .
45 : 16 And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh ' s house , saying , Joseph ' s brethren are come : and it pleased Pharaoh well , and his servants .
45 : 17 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph , Say unto thy brethren , This do ye ; lade your beasts , and go , get you unto the land of Canaan ; 45 : 18 And take your father and your households , and come unto me : and I will give you the good of the land of Egypt , and ye shall eat the fat of the land .
45 : 19 Now thou art commanded , this do ye ; take you wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones , and for your wives , and bring your father , and come .
45 : 20 Also regard not your stuff ; for the good of all the land of Egypt is your ' s .
45 : 21 And the children of Israel did so : and Joseph gave them wagons , according to the commandment of Pharaoh , and gave them provision for the way .
45 : 22 To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment ; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver , and five changes of raiment .
45 : 23 And to his father he sent after this manner ; ten asses laden with the good things of Egypt , and ten she asses laden with corn and bread and meat for his father by the way .
45 : 24 So he sent his brethren away , and they departed : and he said unto them , See that ye fall not out by the way .
45 : 25 And they went up out of Egypt , and came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father , 45 : 26 And told him , saying , Joseph is yet alive , and he is governor over all the land of Egypt .
And Jacob ' s heart fainted , for he believed them not .
45 : 27 And they told him all the words of Joseph , which he had said unto them : and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him , the spirit of Jacob their father revived : 45 : 28 And Israel said , It is enough ; Joseph my son is yet alive : I will go and see him before I die .
46 : 1 And Israel took his journey with all that he had , and came to Beersheba , and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac .
46 : 2 And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night , and said , Jacob , Jacob .
And he said , Here am I .
46 : 3 And he said , I am God , the God of thy father : fear not to go down into Egypt ; for I will there make of thee a great nation : 46 : 4 I will go down with thee into Egypt ; and I will also surely bring thee up again : and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes .
46 : 5 And Jacob rose up from Beersheba : and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father , and their little ones , and their wives , in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him .
46 : 6 And they took their cattle , and their goods , which they had gotten in the land of Canaan , and came into Egypt , Jacob , and all his seed with him : 46 : 7 His sons , and his sons ' sons with him , his daughters , and his sons ' daughters , and all his seed brought he with him into Egypt .
46 : 8 And these are the names of the children of Israel , which came into Egypt , Jacob and his sons : Reuben , Jacob ' s firstborn .
46 : 9 And the sons of Reuben ; Hanoch , and Phallu , and Hezron , and Carmi .
46 : 10 And the sons of Simeon ; Jemuel , and Jamin , and Ohad , and Jachin , and Zohar , and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman .
46 : 11 And the sons of Levi ; Gershon , Kohath , and Merari .
46 : 12 And the sons of Judah ; Er , and Onan , and Shelah , and Pharez , and Zarah : but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan .
And the sons of Pharez were Hezron and Hamul .
46 : 13 And the sons of Issachar ; Tola , and Phuvah , and Job , and Shimron .
46 : 14 And the sons of Zebulun ; Sered , and Elon , and Jahleel .
46 : 15 These be the sons of Leah , which she bare unto Jacob in Padanaram , with his daughter Dinah : all the souls of his sons and his daughters were thirty and three .
46 : 16 And the sons of Gad ; Ziphion , and Haggi , Shuni , and Ezbon , Eri , and Arodi , and Areli .
46 : 17 And the sons of Asher ; Jimnah , and Ishuah , and Isui , and Beriah , and Serah their sister : and the sons of Beriah ; Heber , and Malchiel .
46 : 18 These are the sons of Zilpah , whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter , and these she bare unto Jacob , even sixteen souls .
46 : 19 The sons of Rachel Jacob ' s wife ; Joseph , and Benjamin .
46 : 20 And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim , which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him .
46 : 21 And the sons of Benjamin were Belah , and Becher , and Ashbel , Gera , and Naaman , Ehi , and Rosh , Muppim , and Huppim , and Ard .
46 : 22 These are the sons of Rachel , which were born to Jacob : all the souls were fourteen .
46 : 23 And the sons of Dan ; Hushim .
46 : 24 And the sons of Naphtali ; Jahzeel , and Guni , and Jezer , and Shillem .
46 : 25 These are the sons of Bilhah , which Laban gave unto Rachel his daughter , and she bare these unto Jacob : all the souls were seven .
46 : 26 All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt , which came out of his loins , besides Jacob ' s sons ' wives , all the souls were threescore and six ; 46 : 27 And the sons of Joseph , which were born him in Egypt , were two souls : all the souls of the house of Jacob , which came into Egypt , were threescore and ten .
46 : 28 And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph , to direct his face unto Goshen ; and they came into the land of Goshen .
46 : 29 And Joseph made ready his chariot , and went up to meet Israel his father , to Goshen , and presented himself unto him ; and he fell on his neck , and wept on his neck a good while .
46 : 30 And Israel said unto Joseph , Now let me die , since I have seen thy face , because thou art yet alive .
46 : 31 And Joseph said unto his brethren , and unto his father ' s house , I will go up , and shew Pharaoh , and say unto him , My brethren , and my father ' s house , which were in the land of Canaan , are come unto me ; 46 : 32 And the men are shepherds , for their trade hath been to feed cattle ; and they have brought their flocks , and their herds , and all that they have .
46 : 33 And it shall come to pass , when Pharaoh shall call you , and shall say , What is your occupation ?
46 : 34 That ye shall say , Thy servants ' trade hath been about cattle from our youth even until now , both we , and also our fathers : that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen ; for every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians .
47 : 1 Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh , and said , My father and my brethren , and their flocks , and their herds , and all that they have , are come out of the land of Canaan ; and , behold , they are in the land of Goshen .
47 : 2 And he took some of his brethren , even five men , and presented them unto Pharaoh .
47 : 3 And Pharaoh said unto his brethren , What is your occupation ?
And they said unto Pharaoh , Thy servants are shepherds , both we , and also our fathers .
47 : 4 They said morever unto Pharaoh , For to sojourn in the land are we come ; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks ; for the famine is sore in the land of Canaan : now therefore , we pray thee , let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen .
47 : 5 And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph , saying , Thy father and thy brethren are come unto thee : 47 : 6 The land of Egypt is before thee ; in the best of the land make thy father and brethren to dwell ; in the land of Goshen let them dwell : and if thou knowest any men of activity among them , then make them rulers over my cattle .
47 : 7 And Joseph brought in Jacob his father , and set him before Pharaoh : and Jacob blessed Pharaoh .
47 : 8 And Pharaoh said unto Jacob , How old art thou ?
47 : 9 And Jacob said unto Pharaoh , The days of the years of my pilgrimage are an hundred and thirty years : few and evil have the days of the years of my life been , and have not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage .
47 : 10 And Jacob blessed Pharaoh , and went out from before Pharaoh .
47 : 11 And Joseph placed his father and his brethren , and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt , in the best of the land , in the land of Rameses , as Pharaoh had commanded .
47 : 12 And Joseph nourished his father , and his brethren , and all his father ' s household , with bread , according to their families .
47 : 13 And there was no bread in all the land ; for the famine was very sore , so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine .
47 : 14 And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt , and in the land of Canaan , for the corn which they bought : and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh ' s house .
47 : 15 And when money failed in the land of Egypt , and in the land of Canaan , all the Egyptians came unto Joseph , and said , Give us bread : for why should we die in thy presence ?
for the money faileth .
47 : 16 And Joseph said , Give your cattle ; and I will give you for your cattle , if money fail .
47 : 17 And they brought their cattle unto Joseph : and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for horses , and for the flocks , and for the cattle of the herds , and for the asses : and he fed them with bread for all their cattle for that year .
47 : 18 When that year was ended , they came unto him the second year , and said unto him , We will not hide it from my lord , how that our money is spent ; my lord also hath our herds of cattle ; there is not ought left in the sight of my lord , but our bodies , and our lands : 47 : 19 Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes , both we and our land ?
buy us and our land for bread , and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh : and give us seed , that we may live , and not die , that the land be not desolate .
47 : 20 And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh ; for the Egyptians sold every man his field , because the famine prevailed over them : so the land became Pharaoh ' s .
47 : 21 And as for the people , he removed them to cities from one end of the borders of Egypt even to the other end thereof .
47 : 22 Only the land of the priests bought he not ; for the priests had a portion assigned them of Pharaoh , and did eat their portion which Pharaoh gave them : wherefore they sold not their lands .
47 : 23 Then Joseph said unto the people , Behold , I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh : lo , here is seed for you , and ye shall sow the land .
47 : 24 And it shall come to pass in the increase , that ye shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh , and four parts shall be your own , for seed of the field , and for your food , and for them of your households , and for food for your little ones .
47 : 25 And they said , Thou hast saved our lives : let us find grace in the sight of my lord , and we will be Pharaoh ' s servants .
47 : 26 And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day , that Pharaoh should have the fifth part , except the land of the priests only , which became not Pharaoh ' s .
47 : 27 And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt , in the country of Goshen ; and they had possessions therein , and grew , and multiplied exceedingly .
47 : 28 And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years : so the whole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years .
47 : 29 And the time drew nigh that Israel must die : and he called his son Joseph , and said unto him , If now I have found grace in thy sight , put , I pray thee , thy hand under my thigh , and deal kindly and truly with me ; bury me not , I pray thee , in Egypt : 47 : 30 But I will lie with my fathers , and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt , and bury me in their buryingplace .
And he said , I will do as thou hast said .
47 : 31 And he said , Swear unto me .
And he sware unto him .
And Israel bowed himself upon the bed ' s head .
48 : 1 And it came to pass after these things , that one told Joseph , Behold , thy father is sick : and he took with him his two sons , Manasseh and Ephraim .
48 : 2 And one told Jacob , and said , Behold , thy son Joseph cometh unto thee : and Israel strengthened himself , and sat upon the bed .
48 : 3 And Jacob said unto Joseph , God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz in the land of Canaan , and blessed me , 48 : 4 And said unto me , Behold , I will make thee fruitful , and multiply thee , and I will make of thee a multitude of people ; and will give this land to thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession .
48 : 5 And now thy two sons , Ephraim and Manasseh , which were born unto thee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt , are mine ; as Reuben and Simeon , they shall be mine .
48 : 6 And thy issue , which thou begettest after them , shall be thine , and shall be called after the name of their brethren in their inheritance .
48 : 7 And as for me , when I came from Padan , Rachel died by me in the land of Canaan in the way , when yet there was but a little way to come unto Ephrath : and I buried her there in the way of Ephrath ; the same is Bethlehem .
48 : 8 And Israel beheld Joseph ' s sons , and said , Who are these ?
48 : 9 And Joseph said unto his father , They are my sons , whom God hath given me in this place .
And he said , Bring them , I pray thee , unto me , and I will bless them .
48 : 10 Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age , so that he could not see .
And he brought them near unto him ; and he kissed them , and embraced them .
48 : 11 And Israel said unto Joseph , I had not thought to see thy face : and , lo , God hath shewed me also thy seed .
48 : 12 And Joseph brought them out from between his knees , and he bowed himself with his face to the earth .
48 : 13 And Joseph took them both , Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel ' s left hand , and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel ' s right hand , and brought them near unto him .
48 : 14 And Israel stretched out his right hand , and laid it upon Ephraim ' s head , who was the younger , and his left hand upon Manasseh ' s head , guiding his hands wittingly ; for Manasseh was the firstborn .
48 : 15 And he blessed Joseph , and said , God , before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk , the God which fed me all my life long unto this day , 48 : 16 The Angel which redeemed me from all evil , bless the lads ; and let my name be named on them , and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac ; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth .
48 : 17 And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim , it displeased him : and he held up his father ' s hand , to remove it from Ephraim ' s head unto Manasseh ' s head .
48 : 18 And Joseph said unto his father , Not so , my father : for this is the firstborn ; put thy right hand upon his head .
48 : 19 And his father refused , and said , I know it , my son , I know it : he also shall become a people , and he also shall be great : but truly his younger brother shall be greater than he , and his seed shall become a multitude of nations .
48 : 20 And he blessed them that day , saying , In thee shall Israel bless , saying , God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh : and he set Ephraim before Manasseh .
48 : 21 And Israel said unto Joseph , Behold , I die : but God shall be with you , and bring you again unto the land of your fathers .
48 : 22 Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren , which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my bow .
49 : 1 And Jacob called unto his sons , and said , Gather yourselves together , that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days .
49 : 2 Gather yourselves together , and hear , ye sons of Jacob ; and hearken unto Israel your father .
49 : 3 Reuben , thou art my firstborn , my might , and the beginning of my strength , the excellency of dignity , and the excellency of power : 49 : 4 Unstable as water , thou shalt not excel ; because thou wentest up to thy father ' s bed ; then defiledst thou it : he went up to my couch .
49 : 5 Simeon and Levi are brethren ; instruments of cruelty are in their habitations .
49 : 6 O my soul , come not thou into their secret ; unto their assembly , mine honour , be not thou united : for in their anger they slew a man , and in their selfwill they digged down a wall .
49 : 7 Cursed be their anger , for it was fierce ; and their wrath , for it was cruel : I will divide them in Jacob , and scatter them in Israel .
49 : 8 Judah , thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise : thy hand shall be in the neck of thine enemies ; thy father ' s children shall bow down before thee .
49 : 9 Judah is a lion ' s whelp : from the prey , my son , thou art gone up : he stooped down , he couched as a lion , and as an old lion ; who shall rouse him up ?
49 : 10 The sceptre shall not depart from Judah , nor a lawgiver from between his feet , until Shiloh come ; and unto him shall the gathering of the people be .
49 : 11 Binding his foal unto the vine , and his ass ' s colt unto the choice vine ; he washed his garments in wine , and his clothes in the blood of grapes : 49 : 12 His eyes shall be red with wine , and his teeth white with milk .
49 : 13 Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea ; and he shall be for an haven of ships ; and his border shall be unto Zidon .
49 : 14 Issachar is a strong ass couching down between two burdens : 49 : 15 And he saw that rest was good , and the land that it was pleasant ; and bowed his shoulder to bear , and became a servant unto tribute .
49 : 16 Dan shall judge his people , as one of the tribes of Israel .
49 : 17 Dan shall be a serpent by the way , an adder in the path , that biteth the horse heels , so that his rider shall fall backward .
49 : 18 I have waited for thy salvation , O LORD .
49 : 19 Gad , a troop shall overcome him : but he shall overcome at the last .
49 : 20 Out of Asher his bread shall be fat , and he shall yield royal dainties .
49 : 21 Naphtali is a hind let loose : he giveth goodly words .
49 : 22 Joseph is a fruitful bough , even a fruitful bough by a well ; whose branches run over the wall : 49 : 23 The archers have sorely grieved him , and shot at him , and hated him : 49 : 24 But his bow abode in strength , and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob ; ( from thence is the shepherd , the stone of Israel :) 49 : 25 Even by the God of thy father , who shall help thee ; and by the Almighty , who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above , blessings of the deep that lieth under , blessings of the breasts , and of the womb : 49 : 26 The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills : they shall be on the head of Joseph , and on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren .
49 : 27 Benjamin shall ravin as a wolf : in the morning he shall devour the prey , and at night he shall divide the spoil .
49 : 28 All these are the twelve tribes of Israel : and this is it that their father spake unto them , and blessed them ; every one according to his blessing he blessed them .
49 : 29 And he charged them , and said unto them , I am to be gathered unto my people : bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite , 49 : 30 In the cave that is in the field of Machpelah , which is before Mamre , in the land of Canaan , which Abraham bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a buryingplace .
49 : 31 There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife ; there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife ; and there I buried Leah .
49 : 32 The purchase of the field and of the cave that is therein was from the children of Heth .
49 : 33 And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons , he gathered up his feet into the bed , and yielded up the ghost , and was gathered unto his people .
50 : 1 And Joseph fell upon his father ' s face , and wept upon him , and kissed him .
50 : 2 And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father : and the physicians embalmed Israel .
50 : 3 And forty days were fulfilled for him ; for so are fulfilled the days of those which are embalmed : and the Egyptians mourned for him threescore and ten days .
50 : 4 And when the days of his mourning were past , Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh , saying , If now I have found grace in your eyes , speak , I pray you , in the ears of Pharaoh , saying , 50 : 5 My father made me swear , saying , Lo , I die : in my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan , there shalt thou bury me .
Now therefore let me go up , I pray thee , and bury my father , and I will come again .
50 : 6 And Pharaoh said , Go up , and bury thy father , according as he made thee swear .
50 : 7 And Joseph went up to bury his father : and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh , the elders of his house , and all the elders of the land of Egypt , 50 : 8 And all the house of Joseph , and his brethren , and his father ' s house : only their little ones , and their flocks , and their herds , they left in the land of Goshen .
50 : 9 And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen : and it was a very great company .
50 : 10 And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad , which is beyond Jordan , and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation : and he made a mourning for his father seven days .
50 : 11 And when the inhabitants of the land , the Canaanites , saw the mourning in the floor of Atad , they said , This is a grievous mourning to the Egyptians : wherefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim , which is beyond Jordan .
50 : 12 And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them : 50 : 13 For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan , and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah , which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite , before Mamre .
50 : 14 And Joseph returned into Egypt , he , and his brethren , and all that went up with him to bury his father , after he had buried his father .
50 : 15 And when Joseph ' s brethren saw that their father was dead , they said , Joseph will peradventure hate us , and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him .
50 : 16 And they sent a messenger unto Joseph , saying , Thy father did command before he died , saying , 50 : 17 So shall ye say unto Joseph , Forgive , I pray thee now , the trespass of thy brethren , and their sin ; for they did unto thee evil : and now , we pray thee , forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father .
And Joseph wept when they spake unto him .
50 : 18 And his brethren also went and fell down before his face ; and they said , Behold , we be thy servants .
50 : 19 And Joseph said unto them , Fear not : for am I in the place of God ?
50 : 20 But as for you , ye thought evil against me ; but God meant it unto good , to bring to pass , as it is this day , to save much people alive .
50 : 21 Now therefore fear ye not : I will nourish you , and your little ones .
And he comforted them , and spake kindly unto them .
50 : 22 And Joseph dwelt in Egypt , he , and his father ' s house : and Joseph lived an hundred and ten years .
50 : 23 And Joseph saw Ephraim ' s children of the third generation : the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon Joseph ' s knees .
50 : 24 And Joseph said unto his brethren , I die : and God will surely visit you , and bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware to Abraham , to Isaac , and to Jacob .
50 : 25 And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel , saying , God will surely visit you , and ye shall carry up my bones from hence .
50 : 26 So Joseph died , being an hundred and ten years old : and they embalmed him , and he was put in a coffin in Egypt .
The Second Book of Moses : Called Exodus
1 : 1 Now these are the names of the children of Israel , which came into Egypt ; every man and his household came with Jacob .
1 : 2 Reuben , Simeon , Levi , and Judah , 1 : 3 Issachar , Zebulun , and Benjamin , 1 : 4 Dan , and Naphtali , Gad , and Asher .
1 : 5 And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy souls : for Joseph was in Egypt already .
1 : 6 And Joseph died , and all his brethren , and all that generation .
1 : 7 And the children of Israel were fruitful , and increased abundantly , and multiplied , and waxed exceeding mighty ; and the land was filled with them .
1 : 8 Now there arose up a new king over Egypt , which knew not Joseph .
1 : 9 And he said unto his people , Behold , the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we : 1 : 10 Come on , let us deal wisely with them ; lest they multiply , and it come to pass , that , when there falleth out any war , they join also unto our enemies , and fight against us , and so get them up out of the land .
1 : 11 Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their burdens .
And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities , Pithom and Raamses .
1 : 12 But the more they afflicted them , the more they multiplied and grew .
And they were grieved because of the children of Israel .
1 : 13 And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigour : 1 : 14 And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage , in morter , and in brick , and in all manner of service in the field : all their service , wherein they made them serve , was with rigour .
1 : 15 And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives , of which the name of the one was Shiphrah , and the name of the other Puah : 1 : 16 And he said , When ye do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women , and see them upon the stools ; if it be a son , then ye shall kill him : but if it be a daughter , then she shall live .
1 : 17 But the midwives feared God , and did not as the king of Egypt commanded them , but saved the men children alive .
1 : 18 And the king of Egypt called for the midwives , and said unto them , Why have ye done this thing , and have saved the men children alive ?
1 : 19 And the midwives said unto Pharaoh , Because the Hebrew women are not as the Egyptian women ; for they are lively , and are delivered ere the midwives come in unto them .
1 : 20 Therefore God dealt well with the midwives : and the people multiplied , and waxed very mighty .
1 : 21 And it came to pass , because the midwives feared God , that he made them houses .
1 : 22 And Pharaoh charged all his people , saying , Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river , and every daughter ye shall save alive .
2 : 1 And there went a man of the house of Levi , and took to wife a daughter of Levi .
2 : 2 And the woman conceived , and bare a son : and when she saw him that he was a goodly child , she hid him three months .
2 : 3 And when she could not longer hide him , she took for him an ark of bulrushes , and daubed it with slime and with pitch , and put the child therein ; and she laid it in the flags by the river ' s brink .
2 : 4 And his sister stood afar off , to wit what would be done to him .
2 : 5 And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river ; and her maidens walked along by the river ' s side ; and when she saw the ark among the flags , she sent her maid to fetch it .
2 : 6 And when she had opened it , she saw the child : and , behold , the babe wept .
And she had compassion on him , and said , This is one of the Hebrews ' children .
2 : 7 Then said his sister to Pharaoh ' s daughter , Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women , that she may nurse the child for thee ?
2 : 8 And Pharaoh ' s daughter said to her , Go .
And the maid went and called the child ' s mother .
2 : 9 And Pharaoh ' s daughter said unto her , Take this child away , and nurse it for me , and I will give thee thy wages .
And the women took the child , and nursed it .
