" Bargain ?-- about what ?"
" Why , do ye see , the old man is hard bent after that White Whale , and the devil there is trying to come round him , and get him to swap away his silver watch , or his soul , or something of that sort , and then he ' ll surrender Moby Dick ."
" Pooh !
Stubb , you are skylarking ; how can Fedallah do that ?"
" I don ' t know , Flask , but the devil is a curious chap , and a wicked one , I tell ye .
Why , they say as how he went a sauntering into the old flag - ship once , switching his tail about devilish easy and gentlemanlike , and inquiring if the old governor was at home .
Well , he was at home , and asked the devil what he wanted .
The devil , switching his hoofs , up and says , ' I want John .'
' What for ?'
says the old governor .
' What business is that of yours ,' says the devil , getting mad ,--' I want to use him .'
' Take him ,' says the governor -- and by the Lord , Flask , if the devil didn ' t give John the Asiatic cholera before he got through with him , I ' ll eat this whale in one mouthful .
But look sharp -- ain ' t you all ready there ?
Well , then , pull ahead , and let ' s get the whale alongside ."
" I think I remember some such story as you were telling ," said Flask , when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship , " but I can ' t remember where ."
" Three Spaniards ?
Adventures of those three bloody - minded soladoes ?
Did ye read it there , Flask ?
I guess ye did ?"
" No : never saw such a book ; heard of it , though .
But now , tell me , Stubb , do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now , was the same you say is now on board the Pequod ?"
" Am I the same man that helped kill this whale ?
Doesn ' t the devil live for ever ; who ever heard that the devil was dead ?
Did you ever see any parson a wearing mourning for the devil ?
And if the devil has a latch - key to get into the admiral ' s cabin , don ' t you suppose he can crawl into a porthole ?
Tell me that , Mr .
Flask ?"
" How old do you suppose Fedallah is , Stubb ?"
" Do you see that mainmast there ?"
pointing to the ship ; " well , that ' s the figure one ; now take all the hoops in the Pequod ' s hold , and string along in a row with that mast , for oughts , do you see ; well , that wouldn ' t begin to be Fedallah ' s age .
Nor all the coopers in creation couldn ' t show hoops enough to make oughts enough ."
" But see here , Stubb , I thought you a little boasted just now , that you meant to give Fedallah a sea - toss , if you got a good chance .
Now , if he ' s so old as all those hoops of yours come to , and if he is going to live for ever , what good will it do to pitch him overboard -- tell me that ?
" Give him a good ducking , anyhow ."
" But he ' d crawl back ."
" Duck him again ; and keep ducking him ."
" Suppose he should take it into his head to duck you , though -- yes , and drown you -- what then ?"
" I should like to see him try it ; I ' d give him such a pair of black eyes that he wouldn ' t dare to show his face in the admiral ' s cabin again for a long while , let alone down in the orlop there , where he lives , and hereabouts on the upper decks where he sneaks so much .
Damn the devil , Flask ; so you suppose I ' m afraid of the devil ?
Who ' s afraid of him , except the old governor who daresn ' t catch him and put him in double - darbies , as he deserves , but lets him go about kidnapping people ; aye , and signed a bond with him , that all the people the devil kidnapped , he ' d roast for him ?
There ' s a governor !"
" Do you suppose Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab ?"
" Do I suppose it ?
You ' ll know it before long , Flask .
But I am going now to keep a sharp look - out on him ; and if I see anything very suspicious going on , I ' ll just take him by the nape of his neck , and say -- Look here , Beelzebub , you don ' t do it ; and if he makes any fuss , by the Lord I ' ll make a grab into his pocket for his tail , take it to the capstan , and give him such a wrenching and heaving , that his tail will come short off at the stump -- do you see ; and then , I rather guess when he finds himself docked in that queer fashion , he ' ll sneak off without the poor satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs ."
" And what will you do with the tail , Stubb ?"
" Do with it ?
Sell it for an ox whip when we get home ;-- what else ?"
" Now , do you mean what you say , and have been saying all along , Stubb ?"
" Mean or not mean , here we are at the ship ."
The boats were here hailed , to tow the whale on the larboard side , where fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for securing him .
" Didn ' t I tell you so ?"
said Flask ; " yes , you ' ll soon see this right whale ' s head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti ' s ."
In good time , Flask ' s saying proved true .
As before , the Pequod steeply leaned over towards the sperm whale ' s head , now , by the counterpoise of both heads , she regained her even keel ; though sorely strained , you may well believe .
So , when on one side you hoist in Locke ' s head , you go over that way ; but now , on the other side , hoist in Kant ' s and you come back again ; but in very poor plight .
Thus , some minds for ever keep trimming boat .
Oh , ye foolish !
throw all these thunder - heads overboard , and then you will float light and right .
In disposing of the body of a right whale , when brought alongside the ship , the same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the case of a sperm whale ; only , in the latter instance , the head is cut off whole , but in the former the lips and tongue are separately removed and hoisted on deck , with all the well known black bone attached to what is called the crown - piece .
But nothing like this , in the present case , had been done .
The carcases of both whales had dropped astern ; and the head - laden ship not a little resembled a mule carrying a pair of overburdening panniers .
Meantime , Fedallah was calmly eyeing the right whale ' s head , and ever and anon glancing from the deep wrinkles there to the lines in his own hand .
And Ahab chanced so to stand , that the Parsee occupied his shadow ; while , if the Parsee ' s shadow was there at all it seemed only to blend with , and lengthen Ahab ' s .
As the crew toiled on , Laplandish speculations were bandied among them , concerning all these passing things .
CHAPTER 74
The Sperm Whale ' s Head -- Contrasted View .
Here , now , are two great whales , laying their heads together ; let us join them , and lay together our own .
Of the grand order of folio leviathans , the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale are by far the most noteworthy .
They are the only whales regularly hunted by man .
To the Nantucketer , they present the two extremes of all the known varieties of the whale .
As the external difference between them is mainly observable in their heads ; and as a head of each is this moment hanging from the Pequod ' s side ; and as we may freely go from one to the other , by merely stepping across the deck :-- where , I should like to know , will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology than here ?
In the first place , you are struck by the general contrast between these heads .
Both are massive enough in all conscience ; but there is a certain mathematical symmetry in the Sperm Whale ' s which the Right Whale ' s sadly lacks .
There is more character in the Sperm Whale ' s head .
As you behold it , you involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him , in point of pervading dignity .
In the present instance , too , this dignity is heightened by the pepper and salt colour of his head at the summit , giving token of advanced age and large experience .
In short , he is what the fishermen technically call a " grey - headed whale ."
Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads -- namely , the two most important organs , the eye and the ear .
Far back on the side of the head , and low down , near the angle of either whale ' s jaw , if you narrowly search , you will at last see a lashless eye , which you would fancy to be a young colt ' s eye ; so out of all proportion is it to the magnitude of the head .
Now , from this peculiar sideway position of the whale ' s eyes , it is plain that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead , no more than he can one exactly astern .
In a word , the position of the whale ' s eyes corresponds to that of a man ' s ears ; and you may fancy , for yourself , how it would fare with you , did you sideways survey objects through your ears .
You would find that you could only command some thirty degrees of vision in advance of the straight side - line of sight ; and about thirty more behind it .
If your bitterest foe were walking straight towards you , with dagger uplifted in broad day , you would not be able to see him , any more than if he were stealing upon you from behind .
In a word , you would have two backs , so to speak ; but , at the same time , also , two fronts ( side fronts ): for what is it that makes the front of a man -- what , indeed , but his eyes ?
Moreover , while in most other animals that I can now think of , the eyes are so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power , so as to produce one picture and not two to the brain ; the peculiar position of the whale ' s eyes , effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of solid head , which towers between them like a great mountain separating two lakes in valleys ; this , of course , must wholly separate the impressions which each independent organ imparts .
The whale , therefore , must see one distinct picture on this side , and another distinct picture on that side ; while all between must be profound darkness and nothingness to him .
Man may , in effect , be said to look out on the world from a sentry - box with two joined sashes for his window .
But with the whale , these two sashes are separately inserted , making two distinct windows , but sadly impairing the view .
This peculiarity of the whale ' s eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery ; and to be remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes .
A curious and most puzzling question might be started concerning this visual matter as touching the Leviathan .
But I must be content with a hint .
So long as a man ' s eyes are open in the light , the act of seeing is involuntary ; that is , he cannot then help mechanically seeing whatever objects are before him .
Nevertheless , any one ' s experience will teach him , that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of things at one glance , it is quite impossible for him , attentively , and completely , to examine any two things -- however large or however small -- at one and the same instant of time ; never mind if they lie side by side and touch each other .
But if you now come to separate these two objects , and surround each by a circle of profound darkness ; then , in order to see one of them , in such a manner as to bring your mind to bear on it , the other will be utterly excluded from your contemporary consciousness .
How is it , then , with the whale ?
True , both his eyes , in themselves , must simultaneously act ; but is his brain so much more comprehensive , combining , and subtle than man ' s , that he can at the same moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects , one on one side of him , and the other in an exactly opposite direction ?
If he can , then is it as marvellous a thing in him , as if a man were able simultaneously to go through the demonstrations of two distinct problems in Euclid .
Nor , strictly investigated , is there any incongruity in this comparison .
It may be but an idle whim , but it has always seemed to me , that the extraordinary vacillations of movement displayed by some whales when beset by three or four boats ; the timidity and liability to queer frights , so common to such whales ; I think that all this indirectly proceeds from the helpless perplexity of volition , in which their divided and diametrically opposite powers of vision must involve them .
But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye .
If you are an entire stranger to their race , you might hunt over these two heads for hours , and never discover that organ .
The ear has no external leaf whatever ; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill , so wondrously minute is it .
It is lodged a little behind the eye .
With respect to their ears , this important difference is to be observed between the sperm whale and the right .
While the ear of the former has an external opening , that of the latter is entirely and evenly covered over with a membrane , so as to be quite imperceptible from without .
Is it not curious , that so vast a being as the whale should see the world through so small an eye , and hear the thunder through an ear which is smaller than a hare ' s ?
But if his eyes were broad as the lens of Herschel ' s great telescope ; and his ears capacious as the porches of cathedrals ; would that make him any longer of sight , or sharper of hearing ?
Not at all .-- Why then do you try to " enlarge " your mind ?
Subtilize it .
Let us now with whatever levers and steam - engines we have at hand , cant over the sperm whale ' s head , that it may lie bottom up ; then , ascending by a ladder to the summit , have a peep down the mouth ; and were it not that the body is now completely separated from it , with a lantern we might descend into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach .
But let us hold on here by this tooth , and look about us where we are .
What a really beautiful and chaste - looking mouth !
from floor to ceiling , lined , or rather papered with a glistening white membrane , glossy as bridal satins .
But come out now , and look at this portentous lower jaw , which seems like the long narrow lid of an immense snuff - box , with the hinge at one end , instead of one side .
If you pry it up , so as to get it overhead , and expose its rows of teeth , it seems a terrific portcullis ; and such , alas !
it proves to many a poor wight in the fishery , upon whom these spikes fall with impaling force .
But far more terrible is it to behold , when fathoms down in the sea , you see some sulky whale , floating there suspended , with his prodigious jaw , some fifteen feet long , hanging straight down at right - angles with his body , for all the world like a ship ' s jib - boom .
This whale is not dead ; he is only dispirited ; out of sorts , perhaps ; hypochondriac ; and so supine , that the hinges of his jaw have relaxed , leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight , a reproach to all his tribe , who must , no doubt , imprecate lock - jaws upon him .
In most cases this lower jaw -- being easily unhinged by a practised artist -- is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting the ivory teeth , and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles , including canes , umbrella - stocks , and handles to riding - whips .
With a long , weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board , as if it were an anchor ; and when the proper time comes -- some few days after the other work -- Queequeg , Daggoo , and Tashtego , being all accomplished dentists , are set to drawing teeth .
With a keen cutting - spade , Queequeg lances the gums ; then the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts , and a tackle being rigged from aloft , they drag out these teeth , as Michigan oxen drag stumps of old oaks out of wild wood lands .
There are generally forty - two teeth in all ; in old whales , much worn down , but undecayed ; nor filled after our artificial fashion .
The jaw is afterwards sawn into slabs , and piled away like joists for building houses .
CHAPTER 75
The Right Whale ' s Head -- Contrasted View .
Crossing the deck , let us now have a good long look at the Right Whale ' s head .
As in general shape the noble Sperm Whale ' s head may be compared to a Roman war - chariot ( especially in front , where it is so broadly rounded ); so , at a broad view , the Right Whale ' s head bears a rather inelegant resemblance to a gigantic galliot - toed shoe .
Two hundred years ago an old Dutch voyager likened its shape to that of a shoemaker ' s last .
And in this same last or shoe , that old woman of the nursery tale , with the swarming brood , might very comfortably be lodged , she and all her progeny .
But as you come nearer to this great head it begins to assume different aspects , according to your point of view .
If you stand on its summit and look at these two F - shaped spoutholes , you would take the whole head for an enormous bass - viol , and these spiracles , the apertures in its sounding - board .
Then , again , if you fix your eye upon this strange , crested , comb - like incrustation on the top of the mass -- this green , barnacled thing , which the Greenlanders call the " crown ," and the Southern fishers the " bonnet " of the Right Whale ; fixing your eyes solely on this , you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak , with a bird ' s nest in its crotch .
At any rate , when you watch those live crabs that nestle here on this bonnet , such an idea will be almost sure to occur to you ; unless , indeed , your fancy has been fixed by the technical term " crown " also bestowed upon it ; in which case you will take great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually a diademed king of the sea , whose green crown has been put together for him in this marvellous manner .
But if this whale be a king , he is a very sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem .
Look at that hanging lower lip !
what a huge sulk and pout is there !
a sulk and pout , by carpenter ' s measurement , about twenty feet long and five feet deep ; a sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more .
A great pity , now , that this unfortunate whale should be hare - lipped .
The fissure is about a foot across .
Probably the mother during an important interval was sailing down the Peruvian coast , when earthquakes caused the beach to gape .
Over this lip , as over a slippery threshold , we now slide into the mouth .
Upon my word were I at Mackinaw , I should take this to be the inside of an Indian wigwam .
Good Lord !
is this the road that Jonah went ?
The roof is about twelve feet high , and runs to a pretty sharp angle , as if there were a regular ridge - pole there ; while these ribbed , arched , hairy sides , present us with those wondrous , half vertical , scimetar - shaped slats of whalebone , say three hundred on a side , which depending from the upper part of the head or crown bone , form those Venetian blinds which have elsewhere been cursorily mentioned .
The edges of these bones are fringed with hairy fibres , through which the Right Whale strains the water , and in whose intricacies he retains the small fish , when openmouthed he goes through the seas of brit in feeding time .
In the central blinds of bone , as they stand in their natural order , there are certain curious marks , curves , hollows , and ridges , whereby some whalemen calculate the creature ' s age , as the age of an oak by its circular rings .
Though the certainty of this criterion is far from demonstrable , yet it has the savor of analogical probability .
At any rate , if we yield to it , we must grant a far greater age to the Right Whale than at first glance will seem reasonable .
In old times , there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies concerning these blinds .
One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous " whiskers " inside of the whale ' s mouth ;* another , " hogs ' bristles "; a third old gentleman in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language : " There are about two hundred and fifty fins growing on each side of his upper CHOP , which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth ."
* This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker , or rather a moustache , consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw .
Sometimes these tufts impart a rather brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn countenance .
As every one knows , these same " hogs ' bristles ," " fins ," " whiskers ," " blinds ," or whatever you please , furnish to the ladies their busks and other stiffening contrivances .
But in this particular , the demand has long been on the decline .
It was in Queen Anne ' s time that the bone was in its glory , the farthingale being then all the fashion .
And as those ancient dames moved about gaily , though in the jaws of the whale , as you may say ; even so , in a shower , with the like thoughtlessness , do we nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection ; the umbrella being a tent spread over the same bone .
But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment , and , standing in the Right Whale ' s mouth , look around you afresh .
Seeing all these colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about , would you not think you were inside of the great Haarlem organ , and gazing upon its thousand pipes ?
For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest Turkey -- the tongue , which is glued , as it were , to the floor of the mouth .
It is very fat and tender , and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting it on deck .
This particular tongue now before us ; at a passing glance I should say it was a six - barreler ; that is , it will yield you about that amount of oil .
Ere this , you must have plainly seen the truth of what I started with -- that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely different heads .
To sum up , then : in the Right Whale ' s there is no great well of sperm ; no ivory teeth at all ; no long , slender mandible of a lower jaw , like the Sperm Whale ' s .
Nor in the Sperm Whale are there any of those blinds of bone ; no huge lower lip ; and scarcely anything of a tongue .
Again , the Right Whale has two external spout - holes , the Sperm Whale only one .
Look your last , now , on these venerable hooded heads , while they yet lie together ; for one will soon sink , unrecorded , in the sea ; the other will not be very long in following .
Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale ' s there ?
It is the same he died with , only some of the longer wrinkles in the forehead seem now faded away .
I think his broad brow to be full of a prairie - like placidity , born of a speculative indifference as to death .
But mark the other head ' s expression .
See that amazing lower lip , pressed by accident against the vessel ' s side , so as firmly to embrace the jaw .
Does not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in facing death ?
This Right Whale I take to have been a Stoic ; the Sperm Whale , a Platonian , who might have taken up Spinoza in his latter years .
CHAPTER 76
The Battering - Ram .
Ere quitting , for the nonce , the Sperm Whale ' s head , I would have you , as a sensible physiologist , simply -- particularly remark its front aspect , in all its compacted collectedness .
I would have you investigate it now with the sole view of forming to yourself some unexaggerated , intelligent estimate of whatever battering - ram power may be lodged there .
Here is a vital point ; for you must either satisfactorily settle this matter with yourself , or for ever remain an infidel as to one of the most appalling , but not the less true events , perhaps anywhere to be found in all recorded history .
You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm Whale , the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the water ; you observe that the lower part of that front slopes considerably backwards , so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which receives the boom - like lower jaw ; you observe that the mouth is entirely under the head , much in the same way , indeed , as though your own mouth were entirely under your chin .
Moreover you observe that the whale has no external nose ; and that what nose he has -- his spout hole -- is on the top of his head ; you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides of his head , nearly one third of his entire length from the front .
Wherefore , you must now have perceived that the front of the Sperm Whale ' s head is a dead , blind wall , without a single organ or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever .
Furthermore , you are now to consider that only in the extreme , lower , backward sloping part of the front of the head , is there the slightest vestige of bone ; and not till you get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to the full cranial development .
So that this whole enormous boneless mass is as one wad .
Finally , though , as will soon be revealed , its contents partly comprise the most delicate oil ; yet , you are now to be apprised of the nature of the substance which so impregnably invests all that apparent effeminacy .
In some previous place I have described to you how the blubber wraps the body of the whale , as the rind wraps an orange .
Just so with the head ; but with this difference : about the head this envelope , though not so thick , is of a boneless toughness , inestimable by any man who has not handled it .
The severest pointed harpoon , the sharpest lance darted by the strongest human arm , impotently rebounds from it .
It is as though the forehead of the Sperm Whale were paved with horses ' hoofs .
I do not think that any sensation lurks in it .
Bethink yourself also of another thing .
When two large , loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the sailors do ?
They do not suspend between them , at the point of coming contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood .
No , they hold there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox - hide .
That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars .
By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at .
But supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them , capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the Sperm Whale , as far as I know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; considering the unique interior of his head ; it has hypothetically occurred to me , I say , that those mystical lung - celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air , so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction .
If this be so , fancy the irresistibleness of that might , to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes .
Now , mark .
Unerringly impelling this dead , impregnable , uninjurable wall , and this most buoyant thing within ; there swims behind it all a mass of tremendous life , only to be adequately estimated as piled wood is -- by the cord ; and all obedient to one volition , as the smallest insect .
So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all the specialities and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this expansive monster ; when I shall show you some of his more inconsiderable braining feats ; I trust you will have renounced all ignorant incredulity , and be ready to abide by this ; that though the Sperm Whale stove a passage through the Isthmus of Darien , and mixed the Atlantic with the Pacific , you would not elevate one hair of your eye - brow .
For unless you own the whale , you are but a provincial and sentimentalist in Truth .
But clear Truth is a thing for salamander giants only to encounter ; how small the chances for the provincials then ?
What befell the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess ' s veil at Lais ?
CHAPTER 77
The Great Heidelburgh Tun .
Now comes the Baling of the Case .
But to comprehend it aright , you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon .
Regarding the Sperm Whale ' s head as a solid oblong , you may , on an inclined plane , sideways divide it into two quoins ,* whereof the lower is the bony structure , forming the cranium and jaws , and the upper an unctuous mass wholly free from bones ; its broad forward end forming the expanded vertical apparent forehead of the whale .
At the middle of the forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin , and then you have two almost equal parts , which before were naturally divided by an internal wall of a thick tendinous substance .
* Quoin is not a Euclidean term .
It belongs to the pure nautical mathematics .
I know not that it has been defined before .
A quoin is a solid which differs from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by the steep inclination of one side , instead of the mutual tapering of both sides .
The lower subdivided part , called the junk , is one immense honeycomb of oil , formed by the crossing and recrossing , into ten thousand infiltrated cells , of tough elastic white fibres throughout its whole extent .
The upper part , known as the Case , may be regarded as the great Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale .
And as that famous great tierce is mystically carved in front , so the whale ' s vast plaited forehead forms innumerable strange devices for the emblematical adornment of his wondrous tun .
Moreover , as that of Heidelburgh was always replenished with the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys , so the tun of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily vintages ; namely , the highly - prized spermaceti , in its absolutely pure , limpid , and odoriferous state .
Nor is this precious substance found unalloyed in any other part of the creature .
Though in life it remains perfectly fluid , yet , upon exposure to the air , after death , it soon begins to concrete ; sending forth beautiful crystalline shoots , as when the first thin delicate ice is just forming in water .
A large whale ' s case generally yields about five hundred gallons of sperm , though from unavoidable circumstances , considerable of it is spilled , leaks , and dribbles away , or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the ticklish business of securing what you can .
I know not with what fine and costly material the Heidelburgh Tun was coated within , but in superlative richness that coating could not possibly have compared with the silken pearl - coloured membrane , like the lining of a fine pelisse , forming the inner surface of the Sperm Whale ' s case .
It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale embraces the entire length of the entire top of the head ; and since -- as has been elsewhere set forth -- the head embraces one third of the whole length of the creature , then setting that length down at eighty feet for a good sized whale , you have more than twenty - six feet for the depth of the tun , when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a ship ' s side .
As in decapitating the whale , the operator ' s instrument is brought close to the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the spermaceti magazine ; he has , therefore , to be uncommonly heedful , lest a careless , untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly let out its invaluable contents .
It is this decapitated end of the head , also , which is at last elevated out of the water , and retained in that position by the enormous cutting tackles , whose hempen combinations , on one side , make quite a wilderness of ropes in that quarter .
Thus much being said , attend now , I pray you , to that marvellous and -- in this particular instance -- almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale ' s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped .
CHAPTER 78
Cistern and Buckets .
Nimble as a cat , Tashtego mounts aloft ; and without altering his erect posture , runs straight out upon the overhanging mainyard - arm , to the part where it exactly projects over the hoisted Tun .
He has carried with him a light tackle called a whip , consisting of only two parts , travelling through a single - sheaved block .
Securing this block , so that it hangs down from the yard - arm , he swings one end of the rope , till it is caught and firmly held by a hand on deck .
Then , hand - over - hand , down the other part , the Indian drops through the air , till dexterously he lands on the summit of the head .
There -- still high elevated above the rest of the company , to whom he vivaciously cries -- he seems some Turkish Muezzin calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower .
A short - handled sharp spade being sent up to him , he diligently searches for the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun .
In this business he proceeds very heedfully , like a treasure - hunter in some old house , sounding the walls to find where the gold is masoned in .
By the time this cautious search is over , a stout iron - bound bucket , precisely like a well - bucket , has been attached to one end of the whip ; while the other end , being stretched across the deck , is there held by two or three alert hands .
These last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the Indian , to whom another person has reached up a very long pole .
Inserting this pole into the bucket , Tashtego downward guides the bucket into the Tun , till it entirely disappears ; then giving the word to the seamen at the whip , up comes the bucket again , all bubbling like a dairy - maid ' s pail of new milk .
Carefully lowered from its height , the full - freighted vessel is caught by an appointed hand , and quickly emptied into a large tub .
Then remounting aloft , it again goes through the same round until the deep cistern will yield no more .
Towards the end , Tashtego has to ram his long pole harder and harder , and deeper and deeper into the Tun , until some twenty feet of the pole have gone down .
Now , the people of the Pequod had been baling some time in this way ; several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm ; when all at once a queer accident happened .
Whether it was that Tashtego , that wild Indian , was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his one - handed hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head ; or whether the place where he stood was so treacherous and oozy ; or whether the Evil One himself would have it to fall out so , without stating his particular reasons ; how it was exactly , there is no telling now ; but , on a sudden , as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came suckingly up -- my God !
poor Tashtego -- like the twin reciprocating bucket in a veritable well , dropped head - foremost down into this great Tun of Heidelburgh , and with a horrible oily gurgling , went clean out of sight !
" Man overboard !"
cried Daggoo , who amid the general consternation first came to his senses .
" Swing the bucket this way !"
and putting one foot into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip itself , the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head , almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom .
Meantime , there was a terrible tumult .
Looking over the side , they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk .
At this instant , while Daggoo , on the summit of the head , was clearing the whip -- which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles -- a sharp cracking noise was heard ; and to the unspeakable horror of all , one of the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out , and with a vast vibration the enormous mass sideways swung , till the drunk ship reeled and shook as if smitten by an iceberg .
The one remaining hook , upon which the entire strain now depended , seemed every instant to be on the point of giving way ; an event still more likely from the violent motions of the head .
" Come down , come down !"
yelled the seamen to Daggoo , but with one hand holding on to the heavy tackles , so that if the head should drop , he would still remain suspended ; the negro having cleared the foul line , rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well , meaning that the buried harpooneer should grasp it , and so be hoisted out .
" In heaven ' s name , man ," cried Stubb , " are you ramming home a cartridge there ?-- Avast !
How will that help him ; jamming that iron - bound bucket on top of his head ?
Avast , will ye !"
" Stand clear of the tackle !"
cried a voice like the bursting of a rocket .
Almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass dropped into the sea , like Niagara ' s Table - Rock into the whirlpool ; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging -- now over the sailors ' heads , and now over the water -- Daggoo , through a thick mist of spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , buried - alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea !
But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks .
The next , a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue .
One packed rush was made to the side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen .
Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship .
" Ha !
ha !"
cried Daggoo , all at once , from his now quiet , swinging perch overhead ; and looking further off from the side , we saw an arm thrust upright from the blue waves ; a sight strange to see , as an arm thrust forth from the grass over a grave .
" Both !
both !-- it is both !"
-- cried Daggoo again with a joyful shout ; and soon after , Queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one hand , and with the other clutching the long hair of the Indian .
Drawn into the waiting boat , they were quickly brought to the deck ; but Tashtego was long in coming to , and Queequeg did not look very brisk .
Now , how had this noble rescue been accomplished ?
Why , diving after the slowly descending head , Queequeg with his keen sword had made side lunges near its bottom , so as to scuttle a large hole there ; then dropping his sword , had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards , and so hauled out poor Tash by the head .
He averred , that upon first thrusting in for him , a leg was presented ; but well knowing that that was not as it ought to be , and might occasion great trouble ;-- he had thrust back the leg , and by a dexterous heave and toss , had wrought a somerset upon the Indian ; so that with the next trial , he came forth in the good old way -- head foremost .
As for the great head itself , that was doing as well as could be expected .
And thus , through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of Queequeg , the deliverance , or rather , delivery of Tashtego , was successfully accomplished , in the teeth , too , of the most untoward and apparently hopeless impediments ; which is a lesson by no means to be forgotten .
Midwifery should be taught in the same course with fencing and boxing , riding and rowing .
I know that this queer adventure of the Gay - Header ' s will be sure to seem incredible to some landsmen , though they themselves may have either seen or heard of some one ' s falling into a cistern ashore ; an accident which not seldom happens , and with much less reason too than the Indian ' s , considering the exceeding slipperiness of the curb of the Sperm Whale ' s well .
But , peradventure , it may be sagaciously urged , how is this ?
We thought the tissued , infiltrated head of the Sperm Whale , was the lightest and most corky part about him ; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of a far greater specific gravity than itself .
We have thee there .
Not at all , but I have ye ; for at the time poor Tash fell in , the case had been nearly emptied of its lighter contents , leaving little but the dense tendinous wall of the well -- a double welded , hammered substance , as I have before said , much heavier than the sea water , and a lump of which sinks in it like lead almost .
But the tendency to rapid sinking in this substance was in the present instance materially counteracted by the other parts of the head remaining undetached from it , so that it sank very slowly and deliberately indeed , affording Queequeg a fair chance for performing his agile obstetrics on the run , as you may say .
Yes , it was a running delivery , so it was .
Now , had Tashtego perished in that head , it had been a very precious perishing ; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant spermaceti ; coffined , hearsed , and tombed in the secret inner chamber and sanctum sanctorum of the whale .
Only one sweeter end can readily be recalled -- the delicious death of an Ohio honey - hunter , who seeking honey in the crotch of a hollow tree , found such exceeding store of it , that leaning too far over , it sucked him in , so that he died embalmed .
How many , think ye , have likewise fallen into Plato ' s honey head , and sweetly perished there ?
CHAPTER 79
The Prairie .
To scan the lines of his face , or feel the bumps on the head of this Leviathan ; this is a thing which no Physiognomist or Phrenologist has as yet undertaken .
Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as for Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the Rock of Gibraltar , or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the Pantheon .
Still , in that famous work of his , Lavater not only treats of the various faces of men , but also attentively studies the faces of horses , birds , serpents , and fish ; and dwells in detail upon the modifications of expression discernible therein .
Nor have Gall and his disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the phrenological characteristics of other beings than man .
Therefore , though I am but ill qualified for a pioneer , in the application of these two semi - sciences to the whale , I will do my endeavor .
I try all things ; I achieve what I can .
Physiognomically regarded , the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature .
He has no proper nose .
And since the nose is the central and most conspicuous of the features ; and since it perhaps most modifies and finally controls their combined expression ; hence it would seem that its entire absence , as an external appendage , must very largely affect the countenance of the whale .
For as in landscape gardening , a spire , cupola , monument , or tower of some sort , is deemed almost indispensable to the completion of the scene ; so no face can be physiognomically in keeping without the elevated open - work belfry of the nose .
Dash the nose from Phidias ' s marble Jove , and what a sorry remainder !
Nevertheless , Leviathan is of so mighty a magnitude , all his proportions are so stately , that the same deficiency which in the sculptured Jove were hideous , in him is no blemish at all .
Nay , it is an added grandeur .
A nose to the whale would have been impertinent .
As on your physiognomical voyage you sail round his vast head in your jolly - boat , your noble conceptions of him are never insulted by the reflection that he has a nose to be pulled .
A pestilent conceit , which so often will insist upon obtruding even when beholding the mightiest royal beadle on his throne .
In some particulars , perhaps the most imposing physiognomical view to be had of the Sperm Whale , is that of the full front of his head .
This aspect is sublime .
In thought , a fine human brow is like the East when troubled with the morning .
In the repose of the pasture , the curled brow of the bull has a touch of the grand in it .
Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles , the elephant ' s brow is majestic .
Human or animal , the mystical brow is as that great golden seal affixed by the German Emperors to their decrees .
It signifies --" God : done this day by my hand ."
But in most creatures , nay in man himself , very often the brow is but a mere strip of alpine land lying along the snow line .
Few are the foreheads which like Shakespeare ' s or Melancthon ' s rise so high , and descend so low , that the eyes themselves seem clear , eternal , tideless mountain lakes ; and all above them in the forehead ' s wrinkles , you seem to track the antlered thoughts descending there to drink , as the Highland hunters track the snow prints of the deer .
But in the great Sperm Whale , this high and mighty god - like dignity inherent in the brow is so immensely amplified , that gazing on it , in that full front view , you feel the Deity and the dread powers more forcibly than in beholding any other object in living nature .
For you see no one point precisely ; not one distinct feature is revealed ; no nose , eyes , ears , or mouth ; no face ; he has none , proper ; nothing but that one broad firmament of a forehead , pleated with riddles ; dumbly lowering with the doom of boats , and ships , and men .
Nor , in profile , does this wondrous brow diminish ; though that way viewed its grandeur does not domineer upon you so .
In profile , you plainly perceive that horizontal , semi - crescentic depression in the forehead ' s middle , which , in man , is Lavater ' s mark of genius .
But how ?
Genius in the Sperm Whale ?
Has the Sperm Whale ever written a book , spoken a speech ?
No , his great genius is declared in his doing nothing particular to prove it .
It is moreover declared in his pyramidical silence .
And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale been known to the young Orient World , he would have been deified by their child - magian thoughts .
They deified the crocodile of the Nile , because the crocodile is tongueless ; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue , or at least it is so exceedingly small , as to be incapable of protrusion .
If hereafter any highly cultured , poetical nation shall lure back to their birth - right , the merry May - day gods of old ; and livingly enthrone them again in the now egotistical sky ; in the now unhaunted hill ; then be sure , exalted to Jove ' s high seat , the great Sperm Whale shall lord it .
Champollion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics .
But there is no Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man ' s and every being ' s face .
Physiognomy , like every other human science , is but a passing fable .
If then , Sir William Jones , who read in thirty languages , could not read the simplest peasant ' s face in its profounder and more subtle meanings , how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of the Sperm Whale ' s brow ?
I but put that brow before you .
Read it if you can .
CHAPTER 80
The Nut .
If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx , to the phrenologist his brain seems that geometrical circle which it is impossible to square .
In the full - grown creature the skull will measure at least twenty feet in length .
Unhinge the lower jaw , and the side view of this skull is as the side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level base .
But in life -- as we have elsewhere seen -- this inclined plane is angularly filled up , and almost squared by the enormous superincumbent mass of the junk and sperm .
At the high end the skull forms a crater to bed that part of the mass ; while under the long floor of this crater -- in another cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many in depth -- reposes the mere handful of this monster ' s brain .
The brain is at least twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life ; it is hidden away behind its vast outworks , like the innermost citadel within the amplified fortifications of Quebec .
So like a choice casket is it secreted in him , that I have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny that the Sperm Whale has any other brain than that palpable semblance of one formed by the cubic - yards of his sperm magazine .
Lying in strange folds , courses , and convolutions , to their apprehensions , it seems more in keeping with the idea of his general might to regard that mystic part of him as the seat of his intelligence .
It is plain , then , that phrenologically the head of this Leviathan , in the creature ' s living intact state , is an entire delusion .
As for his true brain , you can then see no indications of it , nor feel any .
The whale , like all things that are mighty , wears a false brow to the common world .
If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear view of its rear end , which is the high end , you will be struck by its resemblance to the human skull , beheld in the same situation , and from the same point of view .
Indeed , place this reversed skull ( scaled down to the human magnitude ) among a plate of men ' s skulls , and you would involuntarily confound it with them ; and remarking the depressions on one part of its summit , in phrenological phrase you would say -- This man had no self - esteem , and no veneration .
And by those negations , considered along with the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and power , you can best form to yourself the truest , though not the most exhilarating conception of what the most exalted potency is .
But if from the comparative dimensions of the whale ' s proper brain , you deem it incapable of being adequately charted , then I have another idea for you .
If you attentively regard almost any quadruped ' s spine , you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae to a strung necklace of dwarfed skulls , all bearing rudimental resemblance to the skull proper .
It is a German conceit , that the vertebrae are absolutely undeveloped skulls .
But the curious external resemblance , I take it the Germans were not the first men to perceive .
A foreign friend once pointed it out to me , in the skeleton of a foe he had slain , and with the vertebrae of which he was inlaying , in a sort of basso - relievo , the beaked prow of his canoe .
Now , I consider that the phrenologists have omitted an important thing in not pushing their investigations from the cerebellum through the spinal canal .
For I believe that much of a man ' s character will be found betokened in his backbone .
I would rather feel your spine than your skull , whoever you are .
A thin joist of a spine never yet upheld a full and noble soul .
I rejoice in my spine , as in the firm audacious staff of that flag which I fling half out to the world .
Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale .
His cranial cavity is continuous with the first neck - vertebra ; and in that vertebra the bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across , being eight in height , and of a triangular figure with the base downwards .
As it passes through the remaining vertebrae the canal tapers in size , but for a considerable distance remains of large capacity .
Now , of course , this canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance -- the spinal cord -- as the brain ; and directly communicates with the brain .
And what is still more , for many feet after emerging from the brain ' s cavity , the spinal cord remains of an undecreasing girth , almost equal to that of the brain .
Under all these circumstances , would it be unreasonable to survey and map out the whale ' s spine phrenologically ?
For , viewed in this light , the wonderful comparative smallness of his brain proper is more than compensated by the wonderful comparative magnitude of his spinal cord .
But leaving this hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists , I would merely assume the spinal theory for a moment , in reference to the Sperm Whale ' s hump .
This august hump , if I mistake not , rises over one of the larger vertebrae , and is , therefore , in some sort , the outer convex mould of it .
From its relative situation then , I should call this high hump the organ of firmness or indomitableness in the Sperm Whale .
And that the great monster is indomitable , you will yet have reason to know .
CHAPTER 81
The Pequod Meets The Virgin .
The predestinated day arrived , and we duly met the ship Jungfrau , Derick De Deer , master , of Bremen .
At one time the greatest whaling people in the world , the Dutch and Germans are now among the least ; but here and there at very wide intervals of latitude and longitude , you still occasionally meet with their flag in the Pacific .
For some reason , the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects .
While yet some distance from the Pequod , she rounded to , and dropping a boat , her captain was impelled towards us , impatiently standing in the bows instead of the stern .
" What has he in his hand there ?"
cried Starbuck , pointing to something wavingly held by the German .
" Impossible !-- a lamp - feeder !"
" Not that ," said Stubb , " no , no , it ' s a coffee - pot , Mr . Starbuck ; he ' s coming off to make us our coffee , is the Yarman ; don ' t you see that big tin can there alongside of him ?-- that ' s his boiling water .
Oh !
he ' s all right , is the Yarman ."
" Go along with you ," cried Flask , " it ' s a lamp - feeder and an oil - can .
He ' s out of oil , and has come a - begging ."
However curious it may seem for an oil - ship to be borrowing oil on the whale - ground , and however much it may invertedly contradict the old proverb about carrying coals to Newcastle , yet sometimes such a thing really happens ; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer did indubitably conduct a lamp - feeder as Flask did declare .
As he mounted the deck , Ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale ; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness -- his last drop of Bremen oil being gone , and not a single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one ( that is , an empty one ), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin .
His necessities supplied , Derick departed ; but he had not gained his ship ' s side , when whales were almost simultaneously raised from the mast - heads of both vessels ; and so eager for the chase was Derick , that without pausing to put his oil - can and lamp - feeder aboard , he slewed round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp - feeders .
Now , the game having risen to leeward , he and the other three German boats that soon followed him , had considerably the start of the Pequod ' s keels .
There were eight whales , an average pod .
Aware of their danger , they were going all abreast with great speed straight before the wind , rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of horses in harness .
They left a great , wide wake , as though continually unrolling a great wide parchment upon the sea .
Full in this rapid wake , and many fathoms in the rear , swam a huge , humped old bull , which by his comparatively slow progress , as well as by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him , seemed afflicted with the jaundice , or some other infirmity .
Whether this whale belonged to the pod in advance , seemed questionable ; for it is not customary for such venerable leviathans to be at all social .
Nevertheless , he stuck to their wake , though indeed their back water must have retarded him , because the white - bone or swell at his broad muzzle was a dashed one , like the swell formed when two hostile currents meet .
His spout was short , slow , and laborious ; coming forth with a choking sort of gush , and spending itself in torn shreds , followed by strange subterranean commotions in him , which seemed to have egress at his other buried extremity , causing the waters behind him to upbubble .
" Who ' s got some paregoric ?"
said Stubb , " he has the stomach - ache , I ' m afraid .
Lord , think of having half an acre of stomach - ache !
Adverse winds are holding mad Christmas in him , boys .
It ' s the first foul wind I ever knew to blow from astern ; but look , did ever whale yaw so before ?
it must be , he ' s lost his tiller ."
As an overladen Indiaman bearing down the Hindostan coast with a deck load of frightened horses , careens , buries , rolls , and wallows on her way ; so did this old whale heave his aged bulk , and now and then partly turning over on his cumbrous rib - ends , expose the cause of his devious wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin .
Whether he had lost that fin in battle , or had been born without it , it were hard to say .
" Only wait a bit , old chap , and I ' ll give ye a sling for that wounded arm ," cried cruel Flask , pointing to the whale - line near him .
" Mind he don ' t sling thee with it ," cried Starbuck .
" Give way , or the German will have him ."
With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this one fish , because not only was he the largest , and therefore the most valuable whale , but he was nearest to them , and the other whales were going with such great velocity , moreover , as almost to defy pursuit for the time .
At this juncture the Pequod ' s keels had shot by the three German boats last lowered ; but from the great start he had had , Derick ' s boat still led the chase , though every moment neared by his foreign rivals .
The only thing they feared , was , that from being already so nigh to his mark , he would be enabled to dart his iron before they could completely overtake and pass him .
As for Derick , he seemed quite confident that this would be the case , and occasionally with a deriding gesture shook his lamp - feeder at the other boats .
" The ungracious and ungrateful dog !"
cried Starbuck ; " he mocks and dares me with the very poor - box I filled for him not five minutes ago !"
-- then in his old intense whisper --" Give way , greyhounds !
Dog to it !"
" I tell ye what it is , men "-- cried Stubb to his crew --" it ' s against my religion to get mad ; but I ' d like to eat that villainous Yarman -- Pull -- won ' t ye ?
Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye ?
Do ye love brandy ?
A hogshead of brandy , then , to the best man .
Come , why don ' t some of ye burst a blood - vessel ?
Who ' s that been dropping an anchor overboard -- we don ' t budge an inch -- we ' re becalmed .
Halloo , here ' s grass growing in the boat ' s bottom -- and by the Lord , the mast there ' s budding .
This won ' t do , boys .
Look at that Yarman !
The short and long of it is , men , will ye spit fire or not ?"
" Oh !
see the suds he makes !"
cried Flask , dancing up and down --" What a hump -- Oh , DO pile on the beef -- lays like a log !
Oh !
my lads , DO spring -- slap - jacks and quahogs for supper , you know , my lads -- baked clams and muffins -- oh , DO , DO , spring ,-- he ' s a hundred barreller -- don ' t lose him now -- don ' t oh , DON ' T !-- see that Yarman -- Oh , won ' t ye pull for your duff , my lads -- such a sog !
such a sogger !
Don ' t ye love sperm ?
There goes three thousand dollars , men !-- a bank !-- a whole bank !
The bank of England !-- Oh , DO , DO , DO !-- What ' s that Yarman about now ?"
At this moment Derick was in the act of pitching his lamp - feeder at the advancing boats , and also his oil - can ; perhaps with the double view of retarding his rivals ' way , and at the same time economically accelerating his own by the momentary impetus of the backward toss .
" The unmannerly Dutch dogger !"
cried Stubb .
" Pull now , men , like fifty thousand line - of - battle - ship loads of red - haired devils .
What d ' ye say , Tashtego ; are you the man to snap your spine in two - and - twenty pieces for the honour of old Gayhead ?
What d ' ye say ?"
" I say , pull like god - dam ,"-- cried the Indian .
Fiercely , but evenly incited by the taunts of the German , the Pequod ' s three boats now began ranging almost abreast ; and , so disposed , momentarily neared him .
In that fine , loose , chivalrous attitude of the headsman when drawing near to his prey , the three mates stood up proudly , occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry of , " There she slides , now !
Hurrah for the white - ash breeze !
Down with the Yarman !
Sail over him !"
But so decided an original start had Derick had , that spite of all their gallantry , he would have proved the victor in this race , had not a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught the blade of his midship oarsman .
While this clumsy lubber was striving to free his white - ash , and while , in consequence , Derick ' s boat was nigh to capsizing , and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage ;-- that was a good time for Starbuck , Stubb , and Flask .
With a shout , they took a mortal start forwards , and slantingly ranged up on the German ' s quarter .
An instant more , and all four boats were diagonically in the whale ' s immediate wake , while stretching from them , on both sides , was the foaming swell that he made .
It was a terrific , most pitiable , and maddening sight .
The whale was now going head out , and sending his spout before him in a continual tormented jet ; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of fright .
Now to this hand , now to that , he yawed in his faltering flight , and still at every billow that he broke , he spasmodically sank in the sea , or sideways rolled towards the sky his one beating fin .
So have I seen a bird with clipped wing making affrighted broken circles in the air , vainly striving to escape the piratical hawks .
But the bird has a voice , and with plaintive cries will make known her fear ; but the fear of this vast dumb brute of the sea , was chained up and enchanted in him ; he had no voice , save that choking respiration through his spiracle , and this made the sight of him unspeakably pitiable ; while still , in his amazing bulk , portcullis jaw , and omnipotent tail , there was enough to appal the stoutest man who so pitied .
Seeing now that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod ' s boats the advantage , and rather than be thus foiled of his game , Derick chose to hazard what to him must have seemed a most unusually long dart , ere the last chance would for ever escape .
But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke , than all three tigers -- Queequeg , Tashtego , Daggoo -- instinctively sprang to their feet , and standing in a diagonal row , simultaneously pointed their barbs ; and darted over the head of the German harpooneer , their three Nantucket irons entered the whale .
Blinding vapours of foam and white - fire !
The three boats , in the first fury of the whale ' s headlong rush , bumped the German ' s aside with such force , that both Derick and his baffled harpooneer were spilled out , and sailed over by the three flying keels .
" Don ' t be afraid , my butter - boxes ," cried Stubb , casting a passing glance upon them as he shot by ; " ye ' ll be picked up presently -- all right -- I saw some sharks astern -- St . Bernard ' s dogs , you know -- relieve distressed travellers .
Hurrah !
this is the way to sail now .
Every keel a sunbeam !
Hurrah !-- Here we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a mad cougar !
This puts me in mind of fastening to an elephant in a tilbury on a plain -- makes the wheel - spokes fly , boys , when you fasten to him that way ; and there ' s danger of being pitched out too , when you strike a hill .
Hurrah !
this is the way a fellow feels when he ' s going to Davy Jones -- all a rush down an endless inclined plane !
Hurrah !
this whale carries the everlasting mail !"
But the monster ' s run was a brief one .
Giving a sudden gasp , he tumultuously sounded .
With a grating rush , the three lines flew round the loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in them ; while so fearful were the harpooneers that this rapid sounding would soon exhaust the lines , that using all their dexterous might , they caught repeated smoking turns with the rope to hold on ; till at last -- owing to the perpendicular strain from the lead - lined chocks of the boats , whence the three ropes went straight down into the blue -- the gunwales of the bows were almost even with the water , while the three sterns tilted high in the air .
And the whale soon ceasing to sound , for some time they remained in that attitude , fearful of expending more line , though the position was a little ticklish .
But though boats have been taken down and lost in this way , yet it is this " holding on ," as it is called ; this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his live flesh from the back ; this it is that often torments the Leviathan into soon rising again to meet the sharp lance of his foes .
Yet not to speak of the peril of the thing , it is to be doubted whether this course is always the best ; for it is but reasonable to presume , that the longer the stricken whale stays under water , the more he is exhausted .
Because , owing to the enormous surface of him -- in a full grown sperm whale something less than 2000 square feet -- the pressure of the water is immense .
We all know what an astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under ; even here , above - ground , in the air ; how vast , then , the burden of a whale , bearing on his back a column of two hundred fathoms of ocean !
It must at least equal the weight of fifty atmospheres .
One whaleman has estimated it at the weight of twenty line - of - battle ships , with all their guns , and stores , and men on board .
As the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea , gazing down into its eternal blue noon ; and as not a single groan or cry of any sort , nay , not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths ; what landsman would have thought , that beneath all that silence and placidity , the utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in agony !
Not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows .
Seems it credible that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan was suspended like the big weight to an eight day clock .
Suspended ?
and to what ?
To three bits of board .
Is this the creature of whom it was once so triumphantly said --" Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons ?
or his head with fish - spears ?
The sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold , the spear , the dart , nor the habergeon : he esteemeth iron as straw ; the arrow cannot make him flee ; darts are counted as stubble ; he laugheth at the shaking of a spear !"
This the creature ?
this he ?
Oh !
that unfulfilments should follow the prophets .
For with the strength of a thousand thighs in his tail , Leviathan had run his head under the mountains of the sea , to hide him from the Pequod ' s fish - spears !
In that sloping afternoon sunlight , the shadows that the three boats sent down beneath the surface , must have been long enough and broad enough to shade half Xerxes ' army .
Who can tell how appalling to the wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over his head !
" Stand by , men ; he stirs ," cried Starbuck , as the three lines suddenly vibrated in the water , distinctly conducting upwards to them , as by magnetic wires , the life and death throbs of the whale , so that every oarsman felt them in his seat .
The next moment , relieved in great part from the downward strain at the bows , the boats gave a sudden bounce upwards , as a small icefield will , when a dense herd of white bears are scared from it into the sea .
" Haul in !
Haul in !"
cried Starbuck again ; " he ' s rising ."
The lines , of which , hardly an instant before , not one hand ' s breadth could have been gained , were now in long quick coils flung back all dripping into the boats , and soon the whale broke water within two ship ' s lengths of the hunters .
His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion .
In most land animals there are certain valves or flood - gates in many of their veins , whereby when wounded , the blood is in some degree at least instantly shut off in certain directions .
Not so with the whale ; one of whose peculiarities it is to have an entire non - valvular structure of the blood - vessels , so that when pierced even by so small a point as a harpoon , a deadly drain is at once begun upon his whole arterial system ; and when this is heightened by the extraordinary pressure of water at a great distance below the surface , his life may be said to pour from him in incessant streams .
Yet so vast is the quantity of blood in him , and so distant and numerous its interior fountains , that he will keep thus bleeding and bleeding for a considerable period ; even as in a drought a river will flow , whose source is in the well - springs of far - off and undiscernible hills .
Even now , when the boats pulled upon this whale , and perilously drew over his swaying flukes , and the lances were darted into him , they were followed by steady jets from the new made wound , which kept continually playing , while the natural spout - hole in his head was only at intervals , however rapid , sending its affrighted moisture into the air .
From this last vent no blood yet came , because no vital part of him had thus far been struck .
His life , as they significantly call it , was untouched .
As the boats now more closely surrounded him , the whole upper part of his form , with much of it that is ordinarily submerged , was plainly revealed .
His eyes , or rather the places where his eyes had been , were beheld .
As strange misgrown masses gather in the knot - holes of the noblest oaks when prostrate , so from the points which the whale ' s eyes had once occupied , now protruded blind bulbs , horribly pitiable to see .
But pity there was none .
For all his old age , and his one arm , and his blind eyes , he must die the death and be murdered , in order to light the gay bridals and other merry - makings of men , and also to illuminate the solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to all .
Still rolling in his blood , at last he partially disclosed a strangely discoloured bunch or protuberance , the size of a bushel , low down on the flank .
" A nice spot ," cried Flask ; " just let me prick him there once ."
" Avast !"
cried Starbuck , " there ' s no need of that !"
But humane Starbuck was too late .
At the instant of the dart an ulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound , and goaded by it into more than sufferable anguish , the whale now spouting thick blood , with swift fury blindly darted at the craft , bespattering them and their glorying crews all over with showers of gore , capsizing Flask ' s boat and marring the bows .
It was his death stroke .
For , by this time , so spent was he by loss of blood , that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had made ; lay panting on his side , impotently flapped with his stumped fin , then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world ; turned up the white secrets of his belly ; lay like a log , and died .
It was most piteous , that last expiring spout .
As when by unseen hands the water is gradually drawn off from some mighty fountain , and with half - stifled melancholy gurglings the spray - column lowers and lowers to the ground -- so the last long dying spout of the whale .
Soon , while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship , the body showed symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled .
Immediately , by Starbuck ' s orders , lines were secured to it at different points , so that ere long every boat was a buoy ; the sunken whale being suspended a few inches beneath them by the cords .
By very heedful management , when the ship drew nigh , the whale was transferred to her side , and was strongly secured there by the stiffest fluke - chains , for it was plain that unless artificially upheld , the body would at once sink to the bottom .
It so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with the spade , the entire length of a corroded harpoon was found imbedded in his flesh , on the lower part of the bunch before described .
But as the stumps of harpoons are frequently found in the dead bodies of captured whales , with the flesh perfectly healed around them , and no prominence of any kind to denote their place ; therefore , there must needs have been some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account for the ulceration alluded to .
But still more curious was the fact of a lance - head of stone being found in him , not far from the buried iron , the flesh perfectly firm about it .
Who had darted that stone lance ?
And when ?
It might have been darted by some Nor ' West Indian long before America was discovered .
What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous cabinet there is no telling .
But a sudden stop was put to further discoveries , by the ship ' s being unprecedentedly dragged over sideways to the sea , owing to the body ' s immensely increasing tendency to sink .
However , Starbuck , who had the ordering of affairs , hung on to it to the last ; hung on to it so resolutely , indeed , that when at length the ship would have been capsized , if still persisting in locking arms with the body ; then , when the command was given to break clear from it , such was the immovable strain upon the timber - heads to which the fluke - chains and cables were fastened , that it was impossible to cast them off .
Meantime everything in the Pequod was aslant .
To cross to the other side of the deck was like walking up the steep gabled roof of a house .
The ship groaned and gasped .
Many of the ivory inlayings of her bulwarks and cabins were started from their places , by the unnatural dislocation .
In vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the immovable fluke - chains , to pry them adrift from the timberheads ; and so low had the whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at all approached , while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed added to the sinking bulk , and the ship seemed on the point of going over .
" Hold on , hold on , won ' t ye ?"
cried Stubb to the body , " don ' t be in such a devil of a hurry to sink !
By thunder , men , we must do something or go for it .
No use prying there ; avast , I say with your handspikes , and run one of ye for a prayer book and a pen - knife , and cut the big chains ."
" Knife ?
Aye , aye ," cried Queequeg , and seizing the carpenter ' s heavy hatchet , he leaned out of a porthole , and steel to iron , began slashing at the largest fluke - chains .
But a few strokes , full of sparks , were given , when the exceeding strain effected the rest .
With a terrific snap , every fastening went adrift ; the ship righted , the carcase sank .
Now , this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed Sperm Whale is a very curious thing ; nor has any fisherman yet adequately accounted for it .
Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great buoyancy , with its side or belly considerably elevated above the surface .
If the only whales that thus sank were old , meagre , and broken - hearted creatures , their pads of lard diminished and all their bones heavy and rheumatic ; then you might with some reason assert that this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so sinking , consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him .
But it is not so .
For young whales , in the highest health , and swelling with noble aspirations , prematurely cut off in the warm flush and May of life , with all their panting lard about them ; even these brawny , buoyant heroes do sometimes sink .
Be it said , however , that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species .
Where one of that sort go down , twenty Right Whales do .
This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale ; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free .
But there are instances where , after the lapse of many hours or several days , the sunken whale again rises , more buoyant than in life .
But the reason of this is obvious .
Gases are generated in him ; he swells to a prodigious magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal balloon .
A line - of - battle ship could hardly keep him under then .
In the Shore Whaling , on soundings , among the Bays of New Zealand , when a Right Whale gives token of sinking , they fasten buoys to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again .
It was not long after the sinking of the body that a cry was heard from the Pequod ' s mast - heads , announcing that the Jungfrau was again lowering her boats ; though the only spout in sight was that of a Fin - Back , belonging to the species of uncapturable whales , because of its incredible power of swimming .
Nevertheless , the Fin - Back ' s spout is so similar to the Sperm Whale ' s , that by unskilful fishermen it is often mistaken for it .
And consequently Derick and all his host were now in valiant chase of this unnearable brute .
The Virgin crowding all sail , made after her four young keels , and thus they all disappeared far to leeward , still in bold , hopeful chase .
Oh !
many are the Fin - Backs , and many are the Dericks , my friend .
CHAPTER 82
The Honour and Glory of Whaling .
There are some enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the true method .
The more I dive into this matter of whaling , and push my researches up to the very spring - head of it so much the more am I impressed with its great honourableness and antiquity ; and especially when I find so many great demi - gods and heroes , prophets of all sorts , who one way or other have shed distinction upon it , I am transported with the reflection that I myself belong , though but subordinately , to so emblazoned a fraternity .
The gallant Perseus , a son of Jupiter , was the first whaleman ; and to the eternal honour of our calling be it said , that the first whale attacked by our brotherhood was not killed with any sordid intent .
Those were the knightly days of our profession , when we only bore arms to succor the distressed , and not to fill men ' s lamp - feeders .
Every one knows the fine story of Perseus and Andromeda ; how the lovely Andromeda , the daughter of a king , was tied to a rock on the sea - coast , and as Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off , Perseus , the prince of whalemen , intrepidly advancing , harpooned the monster , and delivered and married the maid .
It was an admirable artistic exploit , rarely achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day ; inasmuch as this Leviathan was slain at the very first dart .
And let no man doubt this Arkite story ; for in the ancient Joppa , now Jaffa , on the Syrian coast , in one of the Pagan temples , there stood for many ages the vast skeleton of a whale , which the city ' s legends and all the inhabitants asserted to be the identical bones of the monster that Perseus slew .
When the Romans took Joppa , the same skeleton was carried to Italy in triumph .
What seems most singular and suggestively important in this story , is this : it was from Joppa that Jonah set sail .
Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda -- indeed , by some supposed to be indirectly derived from it -- is that famous story of St . George and the Dragon ; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale ; for in many old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together , and often stand for each other .
" Thou art as a lion of the waters , and as a dragon of the sea ," saith Ezekiel ; hereby , plainly meaning a whale ; in truth , some versions of the Bible use that word itself .
Besides , it would much subtract from the glory of the exploit had St . George but encountered a crawling reptile of the land , instead of doing battle with the great monster of the deep .
Any man may kill a snake , but only a Perseus , a St . George , a Coffin , have the heart in them to march boldly up to a whale .
Let not the modern paintings of this scene mislead us ; for though the creature encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely represented of a griffin - like shape , and though the battle is depicted on land and the saint on horseback , yet considering the great ignorance of those times , when the true form of the whale was unknown to artists ; and considering that as in Perseus ' case , St . George ' s whale might have crawled up out of the sea on the beach ; and considering that the animal ridden by St . George might have been only a large seal , or sea - horse ; bearing all this in mind , it will not appear altogether incompatible with the sacred legend and the ancientest draughts of the scene , to hold this so - called dragon no other than the great Leviathan himself .
In fact , placed before the strict and piercing truth , this whole story will fare like that fish , flesh , and fowl idol of the Philistines , Dagon by name ; who being planted before the ark of Israel , his horse ' s head and both the palms of his hands fell off from him , and only the stump or fishy part of him remained .
Thus , then , one of our own noble stamp , even a whaleman , is the tutelary guardian of England ; and by good rights , we harpooneers of Nantucket should be enrolled in the most noble order of St . George .
And therefore , let not the knights of that honourable company ( none of whom , I venture to say , have ever had to do with a whale like their great patron ), let them never eye a Nantucketer with disdain , since even in our woollen frocks and tarred trowsers we are much better entitled to St . George ' s decoration than they .
Whether to admit Hercules among us or not , concerning this I long remained dubious : for though according to the Greek mythologies , that antique Crockett and Kit Carson -- that brawny doer of rejoicing good deeds , was swallowed down and thrown up by a whale ; still , whether that strictly makes a whaleman of him , that might be mooted .
It nowhere appears that he ever actually harpooned his fish , unless , indeed , from the inside .
Nevertheless , he may be deemed a sort of involuntary whaleman ; at any rate the whale caught him , if he did not the whale .
I claim him for one of our clan .
But , by the best contradictory authorities , this Grecian story of Hercules and the whale is considered to be derived from the still more ancient Hebrew story of Jonah and the whale ; and vice versa ; certainly they are very similar .
If I claim the demigod then , why not the prophet ?
Nor do heroes , saints , demigods , and prophets alone comprise the whole roll of our order .
Our grand master is still to be named ; for like royal kings of old times , we find the head waters of our fraternity in nothing short of the great gods themselves .
That wondrous oriental story is now to be rehearsed from the Shaster , which gives us the dread Vishnoo , one of the three persons in the godhead of the Hindoos ; gives us this divine Vishnoo himself for our Lord ;-- Vishnoo , who , by the first of his ten earthly incarnations , has for ever set apart and sanctified the whale .
When Brahma , or the God of Gods , saith the Shaster , resolved to recreate the world after one of its periodical dissolutions , he gave birth to Vishnoo , to preside over the work ; but the Vedas , or mystical books , whose perusal would seem to have been indispensable to Vishnoo before beginning the creation , and which therefore must have contained something in the shape of practical hints to young architects , these Vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters ; so Vishnoo became incarnate in a whale , and sounding down in him to the uttermost depths , rescued the sacred volumes .
Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman , then ?
even as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman ?
Perseus , St . George , Hercules , Jonah , and Vishnoo !
there ' s a member - roll for you !
What club but the whaleman ' s can head off like that ?
CHAPTER 83
Jonah Historically Regarded .
Reference was made to the historical story of Jonah and the whale in the preceding chapter .
Now some Nantucketers rather distrust this historical story of Jonah and the whale .
But then there were some sceptical Greeks and Romans , who , standing out from the orthodox pagans of their times , equally doubted the story of Hercules and the whale , and Arion and the dolphin ; and yet their doubting those traditions did not make those traditions one whit the less facts , for all that .
One old Sag - Harbor whaleman ' s chief reason for questioning the Hebrew story was this :-- He had one of those quaint old - fashioned Bibles , embellished with curious , unscientific plates ; one of which represented Jonah ' s whale with two spouts in his head -- a peculiarity only true with respect to a species of the Leviathan ( the Right Whale , and the varieties of that order ), concerning which the fishermen have this saying , " A penny roll would choke him "; his swallow is so very small .
But , to this , Bishop Jebb ' s anticipative answer is ready .
It is not necessary , hints the Bishop , that we consider Jonah as tombed in the whale ' s belly , but as temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth .
And this seems reasonable enough in the good Bishop .
For truly , the Right Whale ' s mouth would accommodate a couple of whist - tables , and comfortably seat all the players .
Possibly , too , Jonah might have ensconced himself in a hollow tooth ; but , on second thoughts , the Right Whale is toothless .
Another reason which Sag - Harbor ( he went by that name ) urged for his want of faith in this matter of the prophet , was something obscurely in reference to his incarcerated body and the whale ' s gastric juices .
But this objection likewise falls to the ground , because a German exegetist supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge in the floating body of a DEAD whale -- even as the French soldiers in the Russian campaign turned their dead horses into tents , and crawled into them .
Besides , it has been divined by other continental commentators , that when Jonah was thrown overboard from the Joppa ship , he straightway effected his escape to another vessel near by , some vessel with a whale for a figure - head ; and , I would add , possibly called " The Whale ," as some craft are nowadays christened the " Shark ," the " Gull ," the " Eagle ."
Nor have there been wanting learned exegetists who have opined that the whale mentioned in the book of Jonah merely meant a life - preserver -- an inflated bag of wind -- which the endangered prophet swam to , and so was saved from a watery doom .
Poor Sag - Harbor , therefore , seems worsted all round .
But he had still another reason for his want of faith .
It was this , if I remember right : Jonah was swallowed by the whale in the Mediterranean Sea , and after three days he was vomited up somewhere within three days ' journey of Nineveh , a city on the Tigris , very much more than three days ' journey across from the nearest point of the Mediterranean coast .
How is that ?
But was there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that short distance of Nineveh ?
Yes .
He might have carried him round by the way of the Cape of Good Hope .
But not to speak of the passage through the whole length of the Mediterranean , and another passage up the Persian Gulf and Red Sea , such a supposition would involve the complete circumnavigation of all Africa in three days , not to speak of the Tigris waters , near the site of Nineveh , being too shallow for any whale to swim in .
Besides , this idea of Jonah ' s weathering the Cape of Good Hope at so early a day would wrest the honour of the discovery of that great headland from Bartholomew Diaz , its reputed discoverer , and so make modern history a liar .
But all these foolish arguments of old Sag - Harbor only evinced his foolish pride of reason -- a thing still more reprehensible in him , seeing that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from the sun and the sea .
I say it only shows his foolish , impious pride , and abominable , devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy .
For by a Portuguese Catholic priest , this very idea of Jonah ' s going to Nineveh via the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of the general miracle .
And so it was .
Besides , to this day , the highly enlightened Turks devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah .
And some three centuries ago , an English traveller in old Harris ' s Voyages , speaks of a Turkish Mosque built in honour of Jonah , in which Mosque was a miraculous lamp that burnt without any oil .
CHAPTER 84
Pitchpoling .
To make them run easily and swiftly , the axles of carriages are anointed ; and for much the same purpose , some whalers perform an analogous operation upon their boat ; they grease the bottom .
Nor is it to be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm , it may possibly be of no contemptible advantage ; considering that oil and water are hostile ; that oil is a sliding thing , and that the object in view is to make the boat slide bravely .
Queequeg believed strongly in anointing his boat , and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau disappeared , took more than customary pains in that occupation ; crawling under its bottom , where it hung over the side , and rubbing in the unctuousness as though diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair from the craft ' s bald keel .
He seemed to be working in obedience to some particular presentiment .
Nor did it remain unwarranted by the event .
Towards noon whales were raised ; but so soon as the ship sailed down to them , they turned and fled with swift precipitancy ; a disordered flight , as of Cleopatra ' s barges from Actium .
Nevertheless , the boats pursued , and Stubb ' s was foremost .
By great exertion , Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron ; but the stricken whale , without at all sounding , still continued his horizontal flight , with added fleetness .
Such unintermitted strainings upon the planted iron must sooner or later inevitably extract it .
It became imperative to lance the flying whale , or be content to lose him .
But to haul the boat up to his flank was impossible , he swam so fast and furious .
What then remained ?
Of all the wondrous devices and dexterities , the sleights of hand and countless subtleties , to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced , none exceed that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling .
Small sword , or broad sword , in all its exercises boasts nothing like it .
It is only indispensable with an inveterate running whale ; its grand fact and feature is the wonderful distance to which the long lance is accurately darted from a violently rocking , jerking boat , under extreme headway .
Steel and wood included , the entire spear is some ten or twelve feet in length ; the staff is much slighter than that of the harpoon , and also of a lighter material -- pine .
It is furnished with a small rope called a warp , of considerable length , by which it can be hauled back to the hand after darting .
But before going further , it is important to mention here , that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance , yet it is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance , which in effect become serious drawbacks .
As a general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any pitchpoling comes into play .
Look now at Stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies , was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling .
Look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat ; wrapt in fleecy foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead .
Handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight , Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed .
Then holding the lance full before his waistband ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm , fifteen feet in the air .
He minds you somewhat of a juggler , balancing a long staff on his chin .
Next moment with a rapid , nameless impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale .
Instead of sparkling water , he now spouts red blood .
" That drove the spigot out of him !"
cried Stubb .
"' Tis July ' s immortal Fourth ; all fountains must run wine today !
Would now , it were old Orleans whiskey , or old Ohio , or unspeakable old Monongahela !
Then , Tashtego , lad , I ' d have ye hold a canakin to the jet , and we ' d drink round it !
Yea , verily , hearts alive , we ' d brew choice punch in the spread of his spout - hole there , and from that live punch - bowl quaff the living stuff ."
Again and again to such gamesome talk , the dexterous dart is repeated , the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in skilful leash .
The agonized whale goes into his flurry ; the tow - line is slackened , and the pitchpoler dropping astern , folds his hands , and mutely watches the monster die .
CHAPTER 85
The Fountain .
That for six thousand years -- and no one knows how many millions of ages before -- the great whales should have been spouting all over the sea , and sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the deep , as with so many sprinkling or mistifying pots ; and that for some centuries back , thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain of the whale , watching these sprinklings and spoutings -- that all this should be , and yet , that down to this blessed minute ( fifteen and a quarter minutes past one o ' clock P . M . of this sixteenth day of December , A . D . 1851 ), it should still remain a problem , whether these spoutings are , after all , really water , or nothing but vapour -- this is surely a noteworthy thing .
Let us , then , look at this matter , along with some interesting items contingent .
Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their gills , the finny tribes in general breathe the air which at all times is combined with the element in which they swim ; hence , a herring or a cod might live a century , and never once raise its head above the surface .
But owing to his marked internal structure which gives him regular lungs , like a human being ' s , the whale can only live by inhaling the disengaged air in the open atmosphere .
Wherefore the necessity for his periodical visits to the upper world .
But he cannot in any degree breathe through his mouth , for , in his ordinary attitude , the Sperm Whale ' s mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the surface ; and what is still more , his windpipe has no connexion with his mouth .
No , he breathes through his spiracle alone ; and this is on the top of his head .
If I say , that in any creature breathing is only a function indispensable to vitality , inasmuch as it withdraws from the air a certain element , which being subsequently brought into contact with the blood imparts to the blood its vivifying principle , I do not think I shall err ; though I may possibly use some superfluous scientific words .
Assume it , and it follows that if all the blood in a man could be aerated with one breath , he might then seal up his nostrils and not fetch another for a considerable time .
That is to say , he would then live without breathing .
Anomalous as it may seem , this is precisely the case with the whale , who systematically lives , by intervals , his full hour and more ( when at the bottom ) without drawing a single breath , or so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air ; for , remember , he has no gills .
How is this ?
Between his ribs and on each side of his spine he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of vermicelli - like vessels , which vessels , when he quits the surface , are completely distended with oxygenated blood .
So that for an hour or more , a thousand fathoms in the sea , he carries a surplus stock of vitality in him , just as the camel crossing the waterless desert carries a surplus supply of drink for future use in its four supplementary stomachs .
The anatomical fact of this labyrinth is indisputable ; and that the supposition founded upon it is reasonable and true , seems the more cogent to me , when I consider the otherwise inexplicable obstinacy of that leviathan in HAVING HIS SPOUTINGS OUT , as the fishermen phrase it .
This is what I mean .
If unmolested , upon rising to the surface , the Sperm Whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform with all his other unmolested risings .
Say he stays eleven minutes , and jets seventy times , that is , respires seventy breaths ; then whenever he rises again , he will be sure to have his seventy breaths over again , to a minute .
Now , if after he fetches a few breaths you alarm him , so that he sounds , he will be always dodging up again to make good his regular allowance of air .
And not till those seventy breaths are told , will he finally go down to stay out his full term below .
Remark , however , that in different individuals these rates are different ; but in any one they are alike .
Now , why should the whale thus insist upon having his spoutings out , unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air , ere descending for good ?
How obvious is it , too , that this necessity for the whale ' s rising exposes him to all the fatal hazards of the chase .
For not by hook or by net could this vast leviathan be caught , when sailing a thousand fathoms beneath the sunlight .
Not so much thy skill , then , O hunter , as the great necessities that strike the victory to thee !
In man , breathing is incessantly going on -- one breath only serving for two or three pulsations ; so that whatever other business he has to attend to , waking or sleeping , breathe he must , or die he will .
But the Sperm Whale only breathes about one seventh or Sunday of his time .
It has been said that the whale only breathes through his spout - hole ; if it could truthfully be added that his spouts are mixed with water , then I opine we should be furnished with the reason why his sense of smell seems obliterated in him ; for the only thing about him that at all answers to his nose is that identical spout - hole ; and being so clogged with two elements , it could not be expected to have the power of smelling .
But owing to the mystery of the spout -- whether it be water or whether it be vapour -- no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at on this head .
Sure it is , nevertheless , that the Sperm Whale has no proper olfactories .
But what does he want of them ?
No roses , no violets , no Cologne - water in the sea .
Furthermore , as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting canal , and as that long canal -- like the grand Erie Canal -- is furnished with a sort of locks ( that open and shut ) for the downward retention of air or the upward exclusion of water , therefore the whale has no voice ; unless you insult him by saying , that when he so strangely rumbles , he talks through his nose .
But then again , what has the whale to say ?
Seldom have I known any profound being that had anything to say to this world , unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting a living .
Oh !
happy that the world is such an excellent listener !
Now , the spouting canal of the Sperm Whale , chiefly intended as it is for the conveyance of air , and for several feet laid along , horizontally , just beneath the upper surface of his head , and a little to one side ; this curious canal is very much like a gas - pipe laid down in a city on one side of a street .
But the question returns whether this gas - pipe is also a water - pipe ; in other words , whether the spout of the Sperm Whale is the mere vapour of the exhaled breath , or whether that exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth , and discharged through the spiracle .
It is certain that the mouth indirectly communicates with the spouting canal ; but it cannot be proved that this is for the purpose of discharging water through the spiracle .
Because the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be , when in feeding he accidentally takes in water .
But the Sperm Whale ' s food is far beneath the surface , and there he cannot spout even if he would .
Besides , if you regard him very closely , and time him with your watch , you will find that when unmolested , there is an undeviating rhyme between the periods of his jets and the ordinary periods of respiration .
But why pester one with all this reasoning on the subject ?
Speak out !
You have seen him spout ; then declare what the spout is ; can you not tell water from air ?
My dear sir , in this world it is not so easy to settle these plain things .
I have ever found your plain things the knottiest of all .
And as for this whale spout , you might almost stand in it , and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely .
The central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping it ; and how can you certainly tell whether any water falls from it , when , always , when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view of his spout , he is in a prodigious commotion , the water cascading all around him .
And if at such times you should think that you really perceived drops of moisture in the spout , how do you know that they are not merely condensed from its vapour ; or how do you know that they are not those identical drops superficially lodged in the spout - hole fissure , which is countersunk into the summit of the whale ' s head ?
For even when tranquilly swimming through the mid - day sea in a calm , with his elevated hump sun - dried as a dromedary ' s in the desert ; even then , the whale always carries a small basin of water on his head , as under a blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled up with rain .
Nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious touching the precise nature of the whale spout .
It will not do for him to be peering into it , and putting his face in it .
You cannot go with your pitcher to this fountain and fill it , and bring it away .
For even when coming into slight contact with the outer , vapoury shreds of the jet , which will often happen , your skin will feverishly smart , from the acridness of the thing so touching it .
And I know one , who coming into still closer contact with the spout , whether with some scientific object in view , or otherwise , I cannot say , the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm .
Wherefore , among whalemen , the spout is deemed poisonous ; they try to evade it .
Another thing ; I have heard it said , and I do not much doubt it , that if the jet is fairly spouted into your eyes , it will blind you .
The wisest thing the investigator can do then , it seems to me , is to let this deadly spout alone .
Still , we can hypothesize , even if we cannot prove and establish .
My hypothesis is this : that the spout is nothing but mist .
And besides other reasons , to this conclusion I am impelled , by considerations touching the great inherent dignity and sublimity of the Sperm Whale ; I account him no common , shallow being , inasmuch as it is an undisputed fact that he is never found on soundings , or near shores ; all other whales sometimes are .
He is both ponderous and profound .
And I am convinced that from the heads of all ponderous profound beings , such as Plato , Pyrrho , the Devil , Jupiter , Dante , and so on , there always goes up a certain semi - visible steam , while in the act of thinking deep thoughts .
While composing a little treatise on Eternity , I had the curiosity to place a mirror before me ; and ere long saw reflected there , a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over my head .
The invariable moisture of my hair , while plunged in deep thought , after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic , of an August noon ; this seems an additional argument for the above supposition .
And how nobly it raises our conceit of the mighty , misty monster , to behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea ; his vast , mild head overhung by a canopy of vapour , engendered by his incommunicable contemplations , and that vapour -- as you will sometimes see it -- glorified by a rainbow , as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts .
For , d ' ye see , rainbows do not visit the clear air ; they only irradiate vapour .
And so , through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my mind , divine intuitions now and then shoot , enkindling my fog with a heavenly ray .
And for this I thank God ; for all have doubts ; many deny ; but doubts or denials , few along with them , have intuitions .
Doubts of all things earthly , and intuitions of some things heavenly ; this combination makes neither believer nor infidel , but makes a man who regards them both with equal eye .
CHAPTER 86
The Tail .
Other poets have warbled the praises of the soft eye of the antelope , and the lovely plumage of the bird that never alights ; less celestial , I celebrate a tail .
Reckoning the largest sized Sperm Whale ' s tail to begin at that point of the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man , it comprises upon its upper surface alone , an area of at least fifty square feet .
The compact round body of its root expands into two broad , firm , flat palms or flukes , gradually shoaling away to less than an inch in thickness .
At the crotch or junction , these flukes slightly overlap , then sideways recede from each other like wings , leaving a wide vacancy between .
In no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely defined than in the crescentic borders of these flukes .
At its utmost expansion in the full grown whale , the tail will considerably exceed twenty feet across .
The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded sinews ; but cut into it , and you find that three distinct strata compose it :-- upper , middle , and lower .
The fibres in the upper and lower layers , are long and horizontal ; those of the middle one , very short , and running crosswise between the outside layers .
This triune structure , as much as anything else , imparts power to the tail .
To the student of old Roman walls , the middle layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin course of tiles always alternating with the stone in those wonderful relics of the antique , and which undoubtedly contribute so much to the great strength of the masonry .
But as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough , the whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of muscular fibres and filaments , which passing on either side the loins and running down into the flukes , insensibly blend with them , and largely contribute to their might ; so that in the tail the confluent measureless force of the whole whale seems concentrated to a point .
Could annihilation occur to matter , this were the thing to do it .
Nor does this -- its amazing strength , at all tend to cripple the graceful flexion of its motions ; where infantileness of ease undulates through a Titanism of power .
On the contrary , those motions derive their most appalling beauty from it .
Real strength never impairs beauty or harmony , but it often bestows it ; and in everything imposingly beautiful , strength has much to do with the magic .
Take away the tied tendons that all over seem bursting from the marble in the carved Hercules , and its charm would be gone .
As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the naked corpse of Goethe , he was overwhelmed with the massive chest of the man , that seemed as a Roman triumphal arch .
When Angelo paints even God the Father in human form , mark what robustness is there .
And whatever they may reveal of the divine love in the Son , the soft , curled , hermaphroditical Italian pictures , in which his idea has been most successfully embodied ; these pictures , so destitute as they are of all brawniness , hint nothing of any power , but the mere negative , feminine one of submission and endurance , which on all hands it is conceded , form the peculiar practical virtues of his teachings .
Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of , that whether wielded in sport , or in earnest , or in anger , whatever be the mood it be in , its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace .
Therein no fairy ' s arm can transcend it .
Five great motions are peculiar to it .
First , when used as a fin for progression ; Second , when used as a mace in battle ; Third , in sweeping ; Fourth , in lobtailing ; Fifth , in peaking flukes .
First : Being horizontal in its position , the Leviathan ' s tail acts in a different manner from the tails of all other sea creatures .
It never wriggles .
In man or fish , wriggling is a sign of inferiority .
To the whale , his tail is the sole means of propulsion .
Scroll - wise coiled forwards beneath the body , and then rapidly sprung backwards , it is this which gives that singular darting , leaping motion to the monster when furiously swimming .
His side - fins only serve to steer by .
Second : It is a little significant , that while one sperm whale only fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw , nevertheless , in his conflicts with man , he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail .
In striking at a boat , he swiftly curves away his flukes from it , and the blow is only inflicted by the recoil .
If it be made in the unobstructed air , especially if it descend to its mark , the stroke is then simply irresistible .
No ribs of man or boat can withstand it .
Your only salvation lies in eluding it ; but if it comes sideways through the opposing water , then partly owing to the light buoyancy of the whale boat , and the elasticity of its materials , a cracked rib or a dashed plank or two , a sort of stitch in the side , is generally the most serious result .
These submerged side blows are so often received in the fishery , that they are accounted mere child ' s play .
Some one strips off a frock , and the hole is stopped .
Third : I cannot demonstrate it , but it seems to me , that in the whale the sense of touch is concentrated in the tail ; for in this respect there is a delicacy in it only equalled by the daintiness of the elephant ' s trunk .
This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the action of sweeping , when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft slowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface of the sea ; and if he feel but a sailor ' s whisker , woe to that sailor , whiskers and all .
What tenderness there is in that preliminary touch !
Had this tail any prehensile power , I should straightway bethink me of Darmonodes ' elephant that so frequented the flower - market , and with low salutations presented nosegays to damsels , and then caressed their zones .
On more accounts than one , a pity it is that the whale does not possess this prehensile virtue in his tail ; for I have heard of yet another elephant , that when wounded in the fight , curved round his trunk and extracted the dart .
Fourth : Stealing unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of the middle of solitary seas , you find him unbent from the vast corpulence of his dignity , and kitten - like , he plays on the ocean as if it were a hearth .
But still you see his power in his play .
The broad palms of his tail are flirted high into the air ; then smiting the surface , the thunderous concussion resounds for miles .
You would almost think a great gun had been discharged ; and if you noticed the light wreath of vapour from the spiracle at his other extremity , you would think that that was the smoke from the touch - hole .
Fifth : As in the ordinary floating posture of the leviathan the flukes lie considerably below the level of his back , they are then completely out of sight beneath the surface ; but when he is about to plunge into the deeps , his entire flukes with at least thirty feet of his body are tossed erect in the air , and so remain vibrating a moment , till they downwards shoot out of view .
Excepting the sublime BREACH -- somewhere else to be described -- this peaking of the whale ' s flukes is perhaps the grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature .
Out of the bottomless profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the highest heaven .
So in dreams , have I seen majestic Satan thrusting forth his tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell .
But in gazing at such scenes , it is all in all what mood you are in ; if in the Dantean , the devils will occur to you ; if in that of Isaiah , the archangels .
Standing at the mast - head of my ship during a sunrise that crimsoned sky and sea , I once saw a large herd of whales in the east , all heading towards the sun , and for a moment vibrating in concert with peaked flukes .
As it seemed to me at the time , such a grand embodiment of adoration of the gods was never beheld , even in Persia , the home of the fire worshippers .
As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African elephant , I then testified of the whale , pronouncing him the most devout of all beings .
For according to King Juba , the military elephants of antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunks uplifted in the profoundest silence .
The chance comparison in this chapter , between the whale and the elephant , so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk of the other are concerned , should not tend to place those two opposite organs on an equality , much less the creatures to which they respectively belong .
For as the mightiest elephant is but a terrier to Leviathan , so , compared with Leviathan ' s tail , his trunk is but the stalk of a lily .
The most direful blow from the elephant ' s trunk were as the playful tap of a fan , compared with the measureless crush and crash of the sperm whale ' s ponderous flukes , which in repeated instances have one after the other hurled entire boats with all their oars and crews into the air , very much as an Indian juggler tosses his balls .
*
* Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale and the elephant is preposterous , inasmuch as in that particular the elephant stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does to the elephant ; nevertheless , there are not wanting some points of curious similitude ; among these is the spout .
It is well known that the elephant will often draw up water or dust in his trunk , and then elevating it , jet it forth in a stream .
The more I consider this mighty tail , the more do I deplore my inability to express it .
At times there are gestures in it , which , though they would well grace the hand of man , remain wholly inexplicable .
In an extensive herd , so remarkable , occasionally , are these mystic gestures , that I have heard hunters who have declared them akin to Free - Mason signs and symbols ; that the whale , indeed , by these methods intelligently conversed with the world .
Nor are there wanting other motions of the whale in his general body , full of strangeness , and unaccountable to his most experienced assailant .
Dissect him how I may , then , I but go skin deep ; I know him not , and never will .
But if I know not even the tail of this whale , how understand his head ?
much more , how comprehend his face , when face he has none ?
Thou shalt see my back parts , my tail , he seems to say , but my face shall not be seen .
But I cannot completely make out his back parts ; and hint what he will about his face , I say again he has no face .
CHAPTER 87
The Grand Armada .
The long and narrow peninsula of Malacca , extending south - eastward from the territories of Birmah , forms the most southerly point of all Asia .
In a continuous line from that peninsula stretch the long islands of Sumatra , Java , Bally , and Timor ; which , with many others , form a vast mole , or rampart , lengthwise connecting Asia with Australia , and dividing the long unbroken Indian ocean from the thickly studded oriental archipelagoes .
This rampart is pierced by several sally - ports for the convenience of ships and whales ; conspicuous among which are the straits of Sunda and Malacca .
By the straits of Sunda , chiefly , vessels bound to China from the west , emerge into the China seas .
Those narrow straits of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java ; and standing midway in that vast rampart of islands , buttressed by that bold green promontory , known to seamen as Java Head ; they not a little correspond to the central gateway opening into some vast walled empire : and considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices , and silks , and jewels , and gold , and ivory , with which the thousand islands of that oriental sea are enriched , it seems a significant provision of nature , that such treasures , by the very formation of the land , should at least bear the appearance , however ineffectual , of being guarded from the all - grasping western world .
The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied with those domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the Mediterranean , the Baltic , and the Propontis .
Unlike the Danes , these Orientals do not demand the obsequious homage of lowered top - sails from the endless procession of ships before the wind , which for centuries past , by night and by day , have passed between the islands of Sumatra and Java , freighted with the costliest cargoes of the east .
But while they freely waive a ceremonial like this , they do by no means renounce their claim to more solid tribute .
Time out of mind the piratical proas of the Malays , lurking among the low shaded coves and islets of Sumatra , have sallied out upon the vessels sailing through the straits , fiercely demanding tribute at the point of their spears .
Though by the repeated bloody chastisements they have received at the hands of European cruisers , the audacity of these corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed ; yet , even at the present day , we occasionally hear of English and American vessels , which , in those waters , have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged .
With a fair , fresh wind , the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these straits ; Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea , and thence , cruising northwards , over waters known to be frequented here and there by the Sperm Whale , sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands , and gain the far coast of Japan , in time for the great whaling season there .
By these means , the circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost all the known Sperm Whale cruising grounds of the world , previous to descending upon the Line in the Pacific ; where Ahab , though everywhere else foiled in his pursuit , firmly counted upon giving battle to Moby Dick , in the sea he was most known to frequent ; and at a season when he might most reasonably be presumed to be haunting it .
But how now ?
in this zoned quest , does Ahab touch no land ?
does his crew drink air ?
Surely , he will stop for water .
Nay .
For a long time , now , the circus - running sun has raced within his fiery ring , and needs no sustenance but what ' s in himself .
So Ahab .
Mark this , too , in the whaler .
While other hulls are loaded down with alien stuff , to be transferred to foreign wharves ; the world - wandering whale - ship carries no cargo but herself and crew , their weapons and their wants .
She has a whole lake ' s contents bottled in her ample hold .
She is ballasted with utilities ; not altogether with unusable pig - lead and kentledge .
She carries years ' water in her .
Clear old prime Nantucket water ; which , when three years afloat , the Nantucketer , in the Pacific , prefers to drink before the brackish fluid , but yesterday rafted off in casks , from the Peruvian or Indian streams .
Hence it is , that , while other ships may have gone to China from New York , and back again , touching at a score of ports , the whale - ship , in all that interval , may not have sighted one grain of soil ; her crew having seen no man but floating seamen like themselves .
So that did you carry them the news that another flood had come ; they would only answer --" Well , boys , here ' s the ark !"
Now , as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast of Java , in the near vicinity of the Straits of Sunda ; indeed , as most of the ground , roundabout , was generally recognised by the fishermen as an excellent spot for cruising ; therefore , as the Pequod gained more and more upon Java Head , the look - outs were repeatedly hailed , and admonished to keep wide awake .
But though the green palmy cliffs of the land soon loomed on the starboard bow , and with delighted nostrils the fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air , yet not a single jet was descried .
Almost renouncing all thought of falling in with any game hereabouts , the ship had well nigh entered the straits , when the customary cheering cry was heard from aloft , and ere long a spectacle of singular magnificence saluted us .
But here be it premised , that owing to the unwearied activity with which of late they have been hunted over all four oceans , the Sperm Whales , instead of almost invariably sailing in small detached companies , as in former times , are now frequently met with in extensive herds , sometimes embracing so great a multitude , that it would almost seem as if numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and covenant for mutual assistance and protection .
To this aggregation of the Sperm Whale into such immense caravans , may be imputed the circumstance that even in the best cruising grounds , you may now sometimes sail for weeks and months together , without being greeted by a single spout ; and then be suddenly saluted by what sometimes seems thousands on thousands .
Broad on both bows , at the distance of some two or three miles , and forming a great semicircle , embracing one half of the level horizon , a continuous chain of whale - jets were up - playing and sparkling in the noon - day air .
Unlike the straight perpendicular twin - jets of the Right Whale , which , dividing at top , fall over in two branches , like the cleft drooping boughs of a willow , the single forward - slanting spout of the Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of white mist , continually rising and falling away to leeward .
Seen from the Pequod ' s deck , then , as she would rise on a high hill of the sea , this host of vapoury spouts , individually curling up into the air , and beheld through a blending atmosphere of bluish haze , showed like the thousand cheerful chimneys of some dense metropolis , descried of a balmy autumnal morning , by some horseman on a height .
As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in the mountains , accelerate their march , all eagerness to place that perilous passage in their rear , and once more expand in comparative security upon the plain ; even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward through the straits ; gradually contracting the wings of their semicircle , and swimming on , in one solid , but still crescentic centre .
Crowding all sail the Pequod pressed after them ; the harpooneers handling their weapons , and loudly cheering from the heads of their yet suspended boats .
If the wind only held , little doubt had they , that chased through these Straits of Sunda , the vast host would only deploy into the Oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of their number .
And who could tell whether , in that congregated caravan , Moby Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming , like the worshipped white - elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese !
So with stun - sail piled on stun - sail , we sailed along , driving these leviathans before us ; when , of a sudden , the voice of Tashtego was heard , loudly directing attention to something in our wake .
Corresponding to the crescent in our van , we beheld another in our rear .
It seemed formed of detached white vapours , rising and falling something like the spouts of the whales ; only they did not so completely come and go ; for they constantly hovered , without finally disappearing .
Levelling his glass at this sight , Ahab quickly revolved in his pivot - hole , crying , " Aloft there , and rig whips and buckets to wet the sails ;-- Malays , sir , and after us !"
As if too long lurking behind the headlands , till the Pequod should fairly have entered the straits , these rascally Asiatics were now in hot pursuit , to make up for their over - cautious delay .
But when the swift Pequod , with a fresh leading wind , was herself in hot chase ; how very kind of these tawny philanthropists to assist in speeding her on to her own chosen pursuit ,-- mere riding - whips and rowels to her , that they were .
As with glass under arm , Ahab to - and - fro paced the deck ; in his forward turn beholding the monsters he chased , and in the after one the bloodthirsty pirates chasing him ; some such fancy as the above seemed his .
And when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery defile in which the ship was then sailing , and bethought him that through that gate lay the route to his vengeance , and beheld , how that through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly end ; and not only that , but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their curses ;-- when all these conceits had passed through his brain , Ahab ' s brow was left gaunt and ribbed , like the black sand beach after some stormy tide has been gnawing it , without being able to drag the firm thing from its place .
But thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew ; and when , after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astern , the Pequod at last shot by the vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra side , emerging at last upon the broad waters beyond ; then , the harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had been gaining upon the ship , than to rejoice that the ship had so victoriously gained upon the Malays .
But still driving on in the wake of the whales , at length they seemed abating their speed ; gradually the ship neared them ; and the wind now dying away , word was passed to spring to the boats .
But no sooner did the herd , by some presumed wonderful instinct of the Sperm Whale , become notified of the three keels that were after them ,-- though as yet a mile in their rear ,-- than they rallied again , and forming in close ranks and battalions , so that their spouts all looked like flashing lines of stacked bayonets , moved on with redoubled velocity .
Stripped to our shirts and drawers , we sprang to the white - ash , and after several hours ' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase , when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating token that they were now at last under the influence of that strange perplexity of inert irresolution , which , when the fishermen perceive it in the whale , they say he is gallied .
The compact martial columns in which they had been hitherto rapidly and steadily swimming , were now broken up in one measureless rout ; and like King Porus ' elephants in the Indian battle with Alexander , they seemed going mad with consternation .
In all directions expanding in vast irregular circles , and aimlessly swimming hither and thither , by their short thick spoutings , they plainly betrayed their distraction of panic .
This was still more strangely evinced by those of their number , who , completely paralysed as it were , helplessly floated like water - logged dismantled ships on the sea .
Had these Leviathans been but a flock of simple sheep , pursued over the pasture by three fierce wolves , they could not possibly have evinced such excessive dismay .
But this occasional timidity is characteristic of almost all herding creatures .
Though banding together in tens of thousands , the lion - maned buffaloes of the West have fled before a solitary horseman .
Witness , too , all human beings , how when herded together in the sheepfold of a theatre ' s pit , they will , at the slightest alarm of fire , rush helter - skelter for the outlets , crowding , trampling , jamming , and remorselessly dashing each other to death .
Best , therefore , withhold any amazement at the strangely gallied whales before us , for there is no folly of the beasts of the earth which is not infinitely outdone by the madness of men .
Though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated , but collectively remained in one place .
As is customary in those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal .
In about three minutes ' time , Queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight for the heart of the herd .
Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery .
For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb .
As , blind and deaf , the whale plunged forward , as if by sheer power of speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him ; as we thus tore a white gash in the sea , on all sides menaced as we flew , by the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us ; our beset boat was like a ship mobbed by ice - isles in a tempest , and striving to steer through their complicated channels and straits , knowing not at what moment it may be locked in and crushed .
But not a bit daunted , Queequeg steered us manfully ; now sheering off from this monster directly across our route in advance ; now edging away from that , whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead , while all the time , Starbuck stood up in the bows , lance in hand , pricking out of our way whatever whales he could reach by short darts , for there was no time to make long ones .
Nor were the oarsmen quite idle , though their wonted duty was now altogether dispensed with .
They chiefly attended to the shouting part of the business .
" Out of the way , Commodore !"
cried one , to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface , and for an instant threatened to swamp us .
" Hard down with your tail , there !"
cried a second to another , which , close to our gunwale , seemed calmly cooling himself with his own fan - like extremity .
All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances , originally invented by the Nantucket Indians , called druggs .
Two thick squares of wood of equal size are stoutly clenched together , so that they cross each other ' s grain at right angles ; a line of considerable length is then attached to the middle of this block , and the other end of the line being looped , it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon .
It is chiefly among gallied whales that this drugg is used .
For then , more whales are close round you than you can possibly chase at one time .
But sperm whales are not every day encountered ; while you may , then , you must kill all you can .
And if you cannot kill them all at once , you must wing them , so that they can be afterwards killed at your leisure .
Hence it is , that at times like these the drugg , comes into requisition .
Our boat was furnished with three of them .
The first and second were successfully darted , and we saw the whales staggeringly running off , fettered by the enormous sidelong resistance of the towing drugg .
They were cramped like malefactors with the chain and ball .
But upon flinging the third , in the act of tossing overboard the clumsy wooden block , it caught under one of the seats of the boat , and in an instant tore it out and carried it away , dropping the oarsman in the boat ' s bottom as the seat slid from under him .
On both sides the sea came in at the wounded planks , but we stuffed two or three drawers and shirts in , and so stopped the leaks for the time .
It had been next to impossible to dart these drugged - harpoons , were it not that as we advanced into the herd , our whale ' s way greatly diminished ; moreover , that as we went still further and further from the circumference of commotion , the direful disorders seemed waning .
So that when at last the jerking harpoon drew out , and the towing whale sideways vanished ; then , with the tapering force of his parting momentum , we glided between two whales into the innermost heart of the shoal , as if from some mountain torrent we had slid into a serene valley lake .
Here the storms in the roaring glens between the outermost whales , were heard but not felt .
In this central expanse the sea presented that smooth satin - like surface , called a sleek , produced by the subtle moisture thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods .
Yes , we were now in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the heart of every commotion .
And still in the distracted distance we beheld the tumults of the outer concentric circles , and saw successive pods of whales , eight or ten in each , swiftly going round and round , like multiplied spans of horses in a ring ; and so closely shoulder to shoulder , that a Titanic circus - rider might easily have over - arched the middle ones , and so have gone round on their backs .
Owing to the density of the crowd of reposing whales , more immediately surrounding the embayed axis of the herd , no possible chance of escape was at present afforded us .
We must watch for a breach in the living wall that hemmed us in ; the wall that had only admitted us in order to shut us up .
Keeping at the centre of the lake , we were occasionally visited by small tame cows and calves ; the women and children of this routed host .
Now , inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving outer circles , and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in any one of those circles , the entire area at this juncture , embraced by the whole multitude , must have contained at least two or three square miles .
At any rate -- though indeed such a test at such a time might be deceptive -- spoutings might be discovered from our low boat that seemed playing up almost from the rim of the horizon .
I mention this circumstance , because , as if the cows and calves had been purposely locked up in this innermost fold ; and as if the wide extent of the herd had hitherto prevented them from learning the precise cause of its stopping ; or , possibly , being so young , unsophisticated , and every way innocent and inexperienced ; however it may have been , these smaller whales -- now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the lake -- evinced a wondrous fearlessness and confidence , or else a still becharmed panic which it was impossible not to marvel at .
Like household dogs they came snuffling round us , right up to our gunwales , and touching them ; till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly domesticated them .
Queequeg patted their foreheads ; Starbuck scratched their backs with his lance ; but fearful of the consequences , for the time refrained from darting it .
But far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface , another and still stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side .
For , suspended in those watery vaults , floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the whales , and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to become mothers .
The lake , as I have hinted , was to a considerable depth exceedingly transparent ; and as human infants while suckling will calmly and fixedly gaze away from the breast , as if leading two different lives at the time ; and while yet drawing mortal nourishment , be still spiritually feasting upon some unearthly reminiscence ;-- even so did the young of these whales seem looking up towards us , but not at us , as if we were but a bit of Gulfweed in their new - born sight .
Floating on their sides , the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us .
One of these little infants , that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a day old , might have measured some fourteen feet in length , and some six feet in girth .
He was a little frisky ; though as yet his body seemed scarce yet recovered from that irksome position it had so lately occupied in the maternal reticule ; where , tail to head , and all ready for the final spring , the unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar ' s bow .
The delicate side - fins , and the palms of his flukes , still freshly retained the plaited crumpled appearance of a baby ' s ears newly arrived from foreign parts .
" Line !
line !"
cried Queequeg , looking over the gunwale ; " him fast !
him fast !-- Who line him !
Who struck ?-- Two whale ; one big , one little !"
" What ails ye , man ?"
cried Starbuck .
" Look - e here ," said Queequeg , pointing down .
As when the stricken whale , that from the tub has reeled out hundreds of fathoms of rope ; as , after deep sounding , he floats up again , and shows the slackened curling line buoyantly rising and spiralling towards the air ; so now , Starbuck saw long coils of the umbilical cord of Madame Leviathan , by which the young cub seemed still tethered to its dam .
Not seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the chase , this natural line , with the maternal end loose , becomes entangled with the hempen one , so that the cub is thereby trapped .
Some of the subtlest secrets of the seas seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond .
We saw young Leviathan amours in the deep .
*
* The sperm whale , as with all other species of the Leviathan , but unlike most other fish , breeds indifferently at all seasons ; after a gestation which may probably be set down at nine months , producing but one at a time ; though in some few known instances giving birth to an Esau and Jacob :-- a contingency provided for in suckling by two teats , curiously situated , one on each side of the anus ; but the breasts themselves extend upwards from that .
When by chance these precious parts in a nursing whale are cut by the hunter ' s lance , the mother ' s pouring milk and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for rods .
The milk is very sweet and rich ; it has been tasted by man ; it might do well with strawberries .
When overflowing with mutual esteem , the whales salute MORE HOMINUM .
And thus , though surrounded by circle upon circle of consternations and affrights , did these inscrutable creatures at the centre freely and fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments ; yea , serenely revelled in dalliance and delight .
But even so , amid the tornadoed Atlantic of my being , do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm ; and while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me , deep down and deep inland there I still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy .
Meanwhile , as we thus lay entranced , the occasional sudden frantic spectacles in the distance evinced the activity of the other boats , still engaged in drugging the whales on the frontier of the host ; or possibly carrying on the war within the first circle , where abundance of room and some convenient retreats were afforded them .
But the sight of the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly darting to and fro across the circles , was nothing to what at last met our eyes .
It is sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly powerful and alert , to seek to hamstring him , as it were , by sundering or maiming his gigantic tail - tendon .
It is done by darting a short - handled cutting - spade , to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again .
A whale wounded ( as we afterwards learned ) in this part , but not effectually , as it seemed , had broken away from the boat , carrying along with him half of the harpoon line ; and in the extraordinary agony of the wound , he was now dashing among the revolving circles like the lone mounted desperado Arnold , at the battle of Saratoga , carrying dismay wherever he went .
But agonizing as was the wound of this whale , and an appalling spectacle enough , any way ; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemed to inspire the rest of the herd , was owing to a cause which at first the intervening distance obscured from us .
But at length we perceived that by one of the unimaginable accidents of the fishery , this whale had become entangled in the harpoon - line that he towed ; he had also run away with the cutting - spade in him ; and while the free end of the rope attached to that weapon , had permanently caught in the coils of the harpoon - line round his tail , the cutting - spade itself had worked loose from his flesh .
So that tormented to madness , he was now churning through the water , violently flailing with his flexible tail , and tossing the keen spade about him , wounding and murdering his own comrades .
This terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their stationary fright .
First , the whales forming the margin of our lake began to crowd a little , and tumble against each other , as if lifted by half spent billows from afar ; then the lake itself began faintly to heave and swell ; the submarine bridal - chambers and nurseries vanished ; in more and more contracting orbits the whales in the more central circles began to swim in thickening clusters .
Yes , the long calm was departing .
A low advancing hum was soon heard ; and then like to the tumultuous masses of block - ice when the great river Hudson breaks up in Spring , the entire host of whales came tumbling upon their inner centre , as if to pile themselves up in one common mountain .
Instantly Starbuck and Queequeg changed places ; Starbuck taking the stern .
" Oars !
Oars !"
he intensely whispered , seizing the helm --" gripe your oars , and clutch your souls , now !
My God , men , stand by !
Shove him off , you Queequeg -- the whale there !-- prick him !-- hit him !
Stand up -- stand up , and stay so !
Spring , men -- pull , men ; never mind their backs -- scrape them !-- scrape away !"
The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks , leaving a narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths .
But by desperate endeavor we at last shot into a temporary opening ; then giving way rapidly , and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet .
After many similar hair - breadth escapes , we at last swiftly glided into what had just been one of the outer circles , but now crossed by random whales , all violently making for one centre .
This lucky salvation was cheaply purchased by the loss of Queequeg ' s hat , who , while standing in the bows to prick the fugitive whales , had his hat taken clean from his head by the air - eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad flukes close by .
Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was , it soon resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement ; for having clumped together at last in one dense body , they then renewed their onward flight with augmented fleetness .
Further pursuit was useless ; but the boats still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged whales might be dropped astern , and likewise to secure one which Flask had killed and waifed .
The waif is a pennoned pole , two or three of which are carried by every boat ; and which , when additional game is at hand , are inserted upright into the floating body of a dead whale , both to mark its place on the sea , and also as token of prior possession , should the boats of any other ship draw near .
The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious saying in the Fishery ,-- the more whales the less fish .
Of all the drugged whales only one was captured .
The rest contrived to escape for the time , but only to be taken , as will hereafter be seen , by some other craft than the Pequod .
CHAPTER 88
Schools and Schoolmasters .
The previous chapter gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm Whales , and there was also then given the probable cause inducing those vast aggregations .
Now , though such great bodies are at times encountered , yet , as must have been seen , even at the present day , small detached bands are occasionally observed , embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each .
Such bands are known as schools .
They generally are of two sorts ; those composed almost entirely of females , and those mustering none but young vigorous males , or bulls , as they are familiarly designated .
In cavalier attendance upon the school of females , you invariably see a male of full grown magnitude , but not old ; who , upon any alarm , evinces his gallantry by falling in the rear and covering the flight of his ladies .
In truth , this gentleman is a luxurious Ottoman , swimming about over the watery world , surroundingly accompanied by all the solaces and endearments of the harem .
The contrast between this Ottoman and his concubines is striking ; because , while he is always of the largest leviathanic proportions , the ladies , even at full growth , are not more than one - third of the bulk of an average - sized male .
They are comparatively delicate , indeed ; I dare say , not to exceed half a dozen yards round the waist .
Nevertheless , it cannot be denied , that upon the whole they are hereditarily entitled to EMBONPOINT .
It is very curious to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent ramblings .
Like fashionables , they are for ever on the move in leisurely search of variety .
You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower of the Equatorial feeding season , having just returned , perhaps , from spending the summer in the Northern seas , and so cheating summer of all unpleasant weariness and warmth .
By the time they have lounged up and down the promenade of the Equator awhile , they start for the Oriental waters in anticipation of the cool season there , and so evade the other excessive temperature of the year .
When serenely advancing on one of these journeys , if any strange suspicious sights are seen , my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his interesting family .
Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan coming that way , presume to draw confidentially close to one of the ladies , with what prodigious fury the Bashaw assails him , and chases him away !
High times , indeed , if unprincipled young rakes like him are to be permitted to invade the sanctity of domestic bliss ; though do what the Bashaw will , he cannot keep the most notorious Lothario out of his bed ; for , alas !
all fish bed in common .
As ashore , the ladies often cause the most terrible duels among their rival admirers ; just so with the whales , who sometimes come to deadly battle , and all for love .
They fence with their long lower jaws , sometimes locking them together , and so striving for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their antlers .
Not a few are captured having the deep scars of these encounters ,-- furrowed heads , broken teeth , scolloped fins ; and in some instances , wrenched and dislocated mouths .
But supposing the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at the first rush of the harem ' s lord , then is it very diverting to watch that lord .
Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among them again and revels there awhile , still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario , like pious Solomon devoutly worshipping among his thousand concubines .
Granting other whales to be in sight , the fishermen will seldom give chase to one of these Grand Turks ; for these Grand Turks are too lavish of their strength , and hence their unctuousness is small .
As for the sons and the daughters they beget , why , those sons and daughters must take care of themselves ; at least , with only the maternal help .
For like certain other omnivorous roving lovers that might be named , my Lord Whale has no taste for the nursery , however much for the bower ; and so , being a great traveller , he leaves his anonymous babies all over the world ; every baby an exotic .
In good time , nevertheless , as the ardour of youth declines ; as years and dumps increase ; as reflection lends her solemn pauses ; in short , as a general lassitude overtakes the sated Turk ; then a love of ease and virtue supplants the love for maidens ; our Ottoman enters upon the impotent , repentant , admonitory stage of life , forswears , disbands the harem , and grown to an exemplary , sulky old soul , goes about all alone among the meridians and parallels saying his prayers , and warning each young Leviathan from his amorous errors .
Now , as the harem of whales is called by the fishermen a school , so is the lord and master of that school technically known as the schoolmaster .
It is therefore not in strict character , however admirably satirical , that after going to school himself , he should then go abroad inculcating not what he learned there , but the folly of it .
His title , schoolmaster , would very naturally seem derived from the name bestowed upon the harem itself , but some have surmised that the man who first thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale , must have read the memoirs of Vidocq , and informed himself what sort of a country - schoolmaster that famous Frenchman was in his younger days , and what was the nature of those occult lessons he inculcated into some of his pupils .
The same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale betakes himself in his advancing years , is true of all aged Sperm Whales .
Almost universally , a lone whale -- as a solitary Leviathan is called -- proves an ancient one .
Like venerable moss - bearded Daniel Boone , he will have no one near him but Nature herself ; and her he takes to wife in the wilderness of waters , and the best of wives she is , though she keeps so many moody secrets .
The schools composing none but young and vigorous males , previously mentioned , offer a strong contrast to the harem schools .
For while those female whales are characteristically timid , the young males , or forty - barrel - bulls , as they call them , are by far the most pugnacious of all Leviathans , and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter ; excepting those wondrous grey - headed , grizzled whales , sometimes met , and these will fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout .
The Forty - barrel - bull schools are larger than the harem schools .
Like a mob of young collegians , they are full of fight , fun , and wickedness , tumbling round the world at such a reckless , rollicking rate , that no prudent underwriter would insure them any more than he would a riotous lad at Yale or Harvard .
They soon relinquish this turbulence though , and when about three - fourths grown , break up , and separately go about in quest of settlements , that is , harems .
Another point of difference between the male and female schools is still more characteristic of the sexes .
Say you strike a Forty - barrel - bull -- poor devil !
all his comrades quit him .
But strike a member of the harem school , and her companions swim around her with every token of concern , sometimes lingering so near her and so long , as themselves to fall a prey .
CHAPTER 89
Fast - Fish and Loose - Fish .
The allusion to the waif and waif - poles in the last chapter but one , necessitates some account of the laws and regulations of the whale fishery , of which the waif may be deemed the grand symbol and badge .
It frequently happens that when several ships are cruising in company , a whale may be struck by one vessel , then escape , and be finally killed and captured by another vessel ; and herein are indirectly comprised many minor contingencies , all partaking of this one grand feature .
For example ,-- after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale , the body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm ; and drifting far away to leeward , be retaken by a second whaler , who , in a calm , snugly tows it alongside , without risk of life or line .
Thus the most vexatious and violent disputes would often arise between the fishermen , were there not some written or unwritten , universal , undisputed law applicable to all cases .
Perhaps the only formal whaling code authorized by legislative enactment , was that of Holland .
It was decreed by the States - General in A . D . 1695 .
But though no other nation has ever had any written whaling law , yet the American fishermen have been their own legislators and lawyers in this matter .
They have provided a system which for terse comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian ' s Pandects and the By - laws of the Chinese Society for the Suppression of Meddling with other People ' s Business .
Yes ; these laws might be engraven on a Queen Anne ' s forthing , or the barb of a harpoon , and worn round the neck , so small are they .
I .
A Fast - Fish belongs to the party fast to it .
II .
A Loose - Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it .
But what plays the mischief with this masterly code is the admirable brevity of it , which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to expound it .
First : What is a Fast - Fish ?
Alive or dead a fish is technically fast , when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat , by any medium at all controllable by the occupant or occupants ,-- a mast , an oar , a nine - inch cable , a telegraph wire , or a strand of cobweb , it is all the same .
Likewise a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif , or any other recognised symbol of possession ; so long as the party waifing it plainly evince their ability at any time to take it alongside , as well as their intention so to do .
These are scientific commentaries ; but the commentaries of the whalemen themselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks -- the Coke - upon - Littleton of the fist .
True , among the more upright and honourable whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases , where it would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim possession of a whale previously chased or killed by another party .
But others are by no means so scrupulous .
Some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale - trover litigated in England , wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard chase of a whale in the Northern seas ; and when indeed they ( the plaintiffs ) had succeeded in harpooning the fish ; they were at last , through peril of their lives , obliged to forsake not only their lines , but their boat itself .
Ultimately the defendants ( the crew of another ship ) came up with the whale , struck , killed , seized , and finally appropriated it before the very eyes of the plaintiffs .
And when those defendants were remonstrated with , their captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs ' teeth , and assured them that by way of doxology to the deed he had done , he would now retain their line , harpoons , and boat , which had remained attached to the whale at the time of the seizure .
Wherefore the plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale , line , harpoons , and boat .
Mr . Erskine was counsel for the defendants ; Lord Ellenborough was the judge .
In the course of the defence , the witty Erskine went on to illustrate his position , by alluding to a recent crim .
con .
case , wherein a gentleman , after in vain trying to bridle his wife ' s viciousness , had at last abandoned her upon the seas of life ; but in the course of years , repenting of that step , he instituted an action to recover possession of her .
Erskine was on the other side ; and he then supported it by saying , that though the gentleman had originally harpooned the lady , and had once had her fast , and only by reason of the great stress of her plunging viciousness , had at last abandoned her ; yet abandon her he did , so that she became a loose - fish ; and therefore when a subsequent gentleman re - harpooned her , the lady then became that subsequent gentleman ' s property , along with whatever harpoon might have been found sticking in her .
Now in the present case Erskine contended that the examples of the whale and the lady were reciprocally illustrative of each other .
These pleadings , and the counter pleadings , being duly heard , the very learned Judge in set terms decided , to wit ,-- That as for the boat , he awarded it to the plaintiffs , because they had merely abandoned it to save their lives ; but that with regard to the controverted whale , harpoons , and line , they belonged to the defendants ; the whale , because it was a Loose - Fish at the time of the final capture ; and the harpoons and line because when the fish made off with them , it ( the fish ) acquired a property in those articles ; and hence anybody who afterwards took the fish had a right to them .
Now the defendants afterwards took the fish ; ergo , the aforesaid articles were theirs .
A common man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge , might possibly object to it .
But ploughed up to the primary rock of the matter , the two great principles laid down in the twin whaling laws previously quoted , and applied and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough in the above cited case ; these two laws touching Fast - Fish and Loose - Fish , I say , will , on reflection , be found the fundamentals of all human jurisprudence ; for notwithstanding its complicated tracery of sculpture , the Temple of the Law , like the Temple of the Philistines , has but two props to stand on .
Is it not a saying in every one ' s mouth , Possession is half of the law : that is , regardless of how the thing came into possession ?
But often possession is the whole of the law .
What are the sinews and souls of Russian serfs and Republican slaves but Fast - Fish , whereof possession is the whole of the law ?
What to the rapacious landlord is the widow ' s last mite but a Fast - Fish ?
What is yonder undetected villain ' s marble mansion with a door - plate for a waif ; what is that but a Fast - Fish ?
What is the ruinous discount which Mordecai , the broker , gets from poor Woebegone , the bankrupt , on a loan to keep Woebegone ' s family from starvation ; what is that ruinous discount but a Fast - Fish ?
What is the Archbishop of Savesoul ' s income of L100 , 000 seized from the scant bread and cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken - backed laborers ( all sure of heaven without any of Savesoul ' s help ) what is that globular L100 , 000 but a Fast - Fish ?
What are the Duke of Dunder ' s hereditary towns and hamlets but Fast - Fish ?
What to that redoubted harpooneer , John Bull , is poor Ireland , but a Fast - Fish ?
What to that apostolic lancer , Brother Jonathan , is Texas but a Fast - Fish ?
And concerning all these , is not Possession the whole of the law ?
But if the doctrine of Fast - Fish be pretty generally applicable , the kindred doctrine of Loose - Fish is still more widely so .
That is internationally and universally applicable .
What was America in 1492 but a Loose - Fish , in which Columbus struck the Spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and mistress ?
What was Poland to the Czar ?
What Greece to the Turk ?
What India to England ?
What at last will Mexico be to the United States ?
All Loose - Fish .
What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but Loose - Fish ?
What all men ' s minds and opinions but Loose - Fish ?
What is the principle of religious belief in them but a Loose - Fish ?
What to the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but Loose - Fish ?
What is the great globe itself but a Loose - Fish ?
And what are you , reader , but a Loose - Fish and a Fast - Fish , too ?
CHAPTER 90
Heads or Tails .
" De balena vero sufficit , si rex habeat caput , et regina caudam ."
BRACTON , L . 3 , C . 3 .
Latin from the books of the Laws of England , which taken along with the context , means , that of all whales captured by anybody on the coast of that land , the King , as Honourary Grand Harpooneer , must have the head , and the Queen be respectfully presented with the tail .
A division which , in the whale , is much like halving an apple ; there is no intermediate remainder .
Now as this law , under a modified form , is to this day in force in England ; and as it offers in various respects a strange anomaly touching the general law of Fast and Loose - Fish , it is here treated of in a separate chapter , on the same courteous principle that prompts the English railways to be at the expense of a separate car , specially reserved for the accommodation of royalty .
In the first place , in curious proof of the fact that the above - mentioned law is still in force , I proceed to lay before you a circumstance that happened within the last two years .
It seems that some honest mariners of Dover , or Sandwich , or some one of the Cinque Ports , had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and beaching a fine whale which they had originally descried afar off from the shore .
Now the Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under the jurisdiction of a sort of policeman or beadle , called a Lord Warden .
Holding the office directly from the crown , I believe , all the royal emoluments incident to the Cinque Port territories become by assignment his .
By some writers this office is called a sinecure .
But not so .
Because the Lord Warden is busily employed at times in fobbing his perquisites ; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same fobbing of them .
Now when these poor sun - burnt mariners , bare - footed , and with their trowsers rolled high up on their eely legs , had wearily hauled their fat fish high and dry , promising themselves a good L150 from the precious oil and bone ; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with their wives , and good ale with their cronies , upon the strength of their respective shares ; up steps a very learned and most Christian and charitable gentleman , with a copy of Blackstone under his arm ; and laying it upon the whale ' s head , he says --" Hands off !
this fish , my masters , is a Fast - Fish .
I seize it as the Lord Warden ' s ."
Upon this the poor mariners in their respectful consternation -- so truly English -- knowing not what to say , fall to vigorously scratching their heads all round ; meanwhile ruefully glancing from the whale to the stranger .
But that did in nowise mend the matter , or at all soften the hard heart of the learned gentleman with the copy of Blackstone .
At length one of them , after long scratching about for his ideas , made bold to speak ,
" Please , sir , who is the Lord Warden ?"
" The Duke ."
" But the duke had nothing to do with taking this fish ?"
" It is his ."
" We have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is all that to go to the Duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters ?"
" It is his ."
" Is the Duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of getting a livelihood ?"
" It is his ."
" I thought to relieve my old bed - ridden mother by part of my share of this whale ."
" It is his ."
" Won ' t the Duke be content with a quarter or a half ?"
" It is his ."
In a word , the whale was seized and sold , and his Grace the Duke of Wellington received the money .
Thinking that viewed in some particular lights , the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be deemed , under the circumstances , a rather hard one , an honest clergyman of the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace , begging him to take the case of those unfortunate mariners into full consideration .
To which my Lord Duke in substance replied ( both letters were published ) that he had already done so , and received the money , and would be obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he ( the reverend gentleman ) would decline meddling with other people ' s business .
Is this the still militant old man , standing at the corners of the three kingdoms , on all hands coercing alms of beggars ?
It will readily be seen that in this case the alleged right of the Duke to the whale was a delegated one from the Sovereign .
We must needs inquire then on what principle the Sovereign is originally invested with that right .
The law itself has already been set forth .
But Plowdon gives us the reason for it .
Says Plowdon , the whale so caught belongs to the King and Queen , " because of its superior excellence ."
And by the soundest commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument in such matters .
But why should the King have the head , and the Queen the tail ?
A reason for that , ye lawyers !
In his treatise on " Queen - Gold ," or Queen - pinmoney , an old King ' s Bench author , one William Prynne , thus discourseth : " Ye tail is ye Queen ' s , that ye Queen ' s wardrobe may be supplied with ye whalebone ."
Now this was written at a time when the black limber bone of the Greenland or Right whale was largely used in ladies ' bodices .
But this same bone is not in the tail ; it is in the head , which is a sad mistake for a sagacious lawyer like Prynne .
But is the Queen a mermaid , to be presented with a tail ?
An allegorical meaning may lurk here .
There are two royal fish so styled by the English law writers -- the whale and the sturgeon ; both royal property under certain limitations , and nominally supplying the tenth branch of the crown ' s ordinary revenue .
I know not that any other author has hinted of the matter ; but by inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be divided in the same way as the whale , the King receiving the highly dense and elastic head peculiar to that fish , which , symbolically regarded , may possibly be humorously grounded upon some presumed congeniality .
And thus there seems a reason in all things , even in law .
CHAPTER 91
The Pequod Meets The Rose - Bud .
" In vain it was to rake for Ambergriese in the paunch of this Leviathan , insufferable fetor denying not inquiry ."
SIR T . BROWNE , V . E .
It was a week or two after the last whaling scene recounted , and when we were slowly sailing over a sleepy , vapoury , mid - day sea , that the many noses on the Pequod ' s deck proved more vigilant discoverers than the three pairs of eyes aloft .
A peculiar and not very pleasant smell was smelt in the sea .
" I will bet something now ," said Stubb , " that somewhere hereabouts are some of those drugged whales we tickled the other day .
I thought they would keel up before long ."
Presently , the vapours in advance slid aside ; and there in the distance lay a ship , whose furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must be alongside .
As we glided nearer , the stranger showed French colours from his peak ; and by the eddying cloud of vulture sea - fowl that circled , and hovered , and swooped around him , it was plain that the whale alongside must be what the fishermen call a blasted whale , that is , a whale that has died unmolested on the sea , and so floated an unappropriated corpse .
It may well be conceived , what an unsavory odor such a mass must exhale ; worse than an Assyrian city in the plague , when the living are incompetent to bury the departed .
So intolerable indeed is it regarded by some , that no cupidity could persuade them to moor alongside of it .
Yet are there those who will still do it ; notwithstanding the fact that the oil obtained from such subjects is of a very inferior quality , and by no means of the nature of attar - of - rose .
Coming still nearer with the expiring breeze , we saw that the Frenchman had a second whale alongside ; and this second whale seemed even more of a nosegay than the first .
In truth , it turned out to be one of those problematical whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort of prodigious dyspepsia , or indigestion ; leaving their defunct bodies almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil .
Nevertheless , in the proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn up his nose at such a whale as this , however much he may shun blasted whales in general .
The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger , that Stubb vowed he recognised his cutting spade - pole entangled in the lines that were knotted round the tail of one of these whales .
" There ' s a pretty fellow , now ," he banteringly laughed , standing in the ship ' s bows , " there ' s a jackal for ye !
I well know that these Crappoes of Frenchmen are but poor devils in the fishery ; sometimes lowering their boats for breakers , mistaking them for Sperm Whale spouts ; yes , and sometimes sailing from their port with their hold full of boxes of tallow candles , and cases of snuffers , foreseeing that all the oil they will get won ' t be enough to dip the Captain ' s wick into ; aye , we all know these things ; but look ye , here ' s a Crappo that is content with our leavings , the drugged whale there , I mean ; aye , and is content too with scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has there .
Poor devil !
I say , pass round a hat , some one , and let ' s make him a present of a little oil for dear charity ' s sake .
For what oil he ' ll get from that drugged whale there , wouldn ' t be fit to burn in a jail ; no , not in a condemned cell .
And as for the other whale , why , I ' ll agree to get more oil by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours , than he ' ll get from that bundle of bones ; though , now that I think of it , it may contain something worth a good deal more than oil ; yes , ambergris .
I wonder now if our old man has thought of that .
It ' s worth trying .
Yes , I ' m for it ;" and so saying he started for the quarter - deck .
By this time the faint air had become a complete calm ; so that whether or no , the Pequod was now fairly entrapped in the smell , with no hope of escaping except by its breezing up again .
Issuing from the cabin , Stubb now called his boat ' s crew , and pulled off for the stranger .
Drawing across her bow , he perceived that in accordance with the fanciful French taste , the upper part of her stem - piece was carved in the likeness of a huge drooping stalk , was painted green , and for thorns had copper spikes projecting from it here and there ; the whole terminating in a symmetrical folded bulb of a bright red colour .
Upon her head boards , in large gilt letters , he read " Bouton de Rose ,"-- Rose - button , or Rose - bud ; and this was the romantic name of this aromatic ship .
Though Stubb did not understand the BOUTON part of the inscription , yet the word ROSE , and the bulbous figure - head put together , sufficiently explained the whole to him .
" A wooden rose - bud , eh ?"
he cried with his hand to his nose , " that will do very well ; but how like all creation it smells !"
Now in order to hold direct communication with the people on deck , he had to pull round the bows to the starboard side , and thus come close to the blasted whale ; and so talk over it .
Arrived then at this spot , with one hand still to his nose , he bawled --" Bouton - de - Rose , ahoy !
are there any of you Bouton - de - Roses that speak English ?"
" Yes ," rejoined a Guernsey - man from the bulwarks , who turned out to be the chief - mate .
" Well , then , my Bouton - de - Rose - bud , have you seen the White Whale ?"
" WHAT whale ?"
" The WHITE Whale -- a Sperm Whale -- Moby Dick , have ye seen him ?
" Never heard of such a whale .
Cachalot Blanche !
White Whale -- no ."
" Very good , then ; good bye now , and I ' ll call again in a minute ."
Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod , and seeing Ahab leaning over the quarter - deck rail awaiting his report , he moulded his two hands into a trumpet and shouted --" No , Sir !
No !"
Upon which Ahab retired , and Stubb returned to the Frenchman .
He now perceived that the Guernsey - man , who had just got into the chains , and was using a cutting - spade , had slung his nose in a sort of bag .
" What ' s the matter with your nose , there ?"
said Stubb .
" Broke it ?"
" I wish it was broken , or that I didn ' t have any nose at all !"
answered the Guernsey - man , who did not seem to relish the job he was at very much .
" But what are you holding YOURS for ?"
" Oh , nothing !
It ' s a wax nose ; I have to hold it on .
Fine day , ain ' t it ?
Air rather gardenny , I should say ; throw us a bunch of posies , will ye , Bouton - de - Rose ?"
" What in the devil ' s name do you want here ?"
roared the Guernseyman , flying into a sudden passion .
" Oh !
keep cool -- cool ?
yes , that ' s the word !
why don ' t you pack those whales in ice while you ' re working at ' em ?
But joking aside , though ; do you know , Rose - bud , that it ' s all nonsense trying to get any oil out of such whales ?
As for that dried up one , there , he hasn ' t a gill in his whole carcase ."
" I know that well enough ; but , d ' ye see , the Captain here won ' t believe it ; this is his first voyage ; he was a Cologne manufacturer before .
But come aboard , and mayhap he ' ll believe you , if he won ' t me ; and so I ' ll get out of this dirty scrape ."
" Anything to oblige ye , my sweet and pleasant fellow ," rejoined Stubb , and with that he soon mounted to the deck .
There a queer scene presented itself .
The sailors , in tasselled caps of red worsted , were getting the heavy tackles in readiness for the whales .
But they worked rather slow and talked very fast , and seemed in anything but a good humor .
All their noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many jib - booms .
Now and then pairs of them would drop their work , and run up to the mast - head to get some fresh air .
Some thinking they would catch the plague , dipped oakum in coal - tar , and at intervals held it to their nostrils .
Others having broken the stems of their pipes almost short off at the bowl , were vigorously puffing tobacco - smoke , so that it constantly filled their olfactories .
Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding from the Captain ' s round - house abaft ; and looking in that direction saw a fiery face thrust from behind the door , which was held ajar from within .
This was the tormented surgeon , who , after in vain remonstrating against the proceedings of the day , had betaken himself to the Captain ' s round - house ( CABINET he called it ) to avoid the pest ; but still , could not help yelling out his entreaties and indignations at times .
Marking all this , Stubb argued well for his scheme , and turning to the Guernsey - man had a little chat with him , during which the stranger mate expressed his detestation of his Captain as a conceited ignoramus , who had brought them all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle .
Sounding him carefully , Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey - man had not the slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris .
He therefore held his peace on that head , but otherwise was quite frank and confidential with him , so that the two quickly concocted a little plan for both circumventing and satirizing the Captain , without his at all dreaming of distrusting their sincerity .
According to this little plan of theirs , the Guernsey - man , under cover of an interpreter ' s office , was to tell the Captain what he pleased , but as coming from Stubb ; and as for Stubb , he was to utter any nonsense that should come uppermost in him during the interview .
By this time their destined victim appeared from his cabin .
He was a small and dark , but rather delicate looking man for a sea - captain , with large whiskers and moustache , however ; and wore a red cotton velvet vest with watch - seals at his side .
To this gentleman , Stubb was now politely introduced by the Guernsey - man , who at once ostentatiously put on the aspect of interpreting between them .
" What shall I say to him first ?"
said he .
" Why ," said Stubb , eyeing the velvet vest and the watch and seals , " you may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort of babyish to me , though I don ' t pretend to be a judge ."
" He says , Monsieur ," said the Guernsey - man , in French , turning to his captain , " that only yesterday his ship spoke a vessel , whose captain and chief - mate , with six sailors , had all died of a fever caught from a blasted whale they had brought alongside ."
Upon this the captain started , and eagerly desired to know more .
" What now ?"
said the Guernsey - man to Stubb .
" Why , since he takes it so easy , tell him that now I have eyed him carefully , I ' m quite certain that he ' s no more fit to command a whale - ship than a St . Jago monkey .
In fact , tell him from me he ' s a baboon ."
" He vows and declares , Monsieur , that the other whale , the dried one , is far more deadly than the blasted one ; in fine , Monsieur , he conjures us , as we value our lives , to cut loose from these fish ."
Instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship .
" What now ?"
said the Guernsey - man , when the Captain had returned to them .
" Why , let me see ; yes , you may as well tell him now that -- that -- in fact , tell him I ' ve diddled him , and ( aside to himself ) perhaps somebody else ."
" He says , Monsieur , that he ' s very happy to have been of any service to us ."
Hearing this , the captain vowed that they were the grateful parties ( meaning himself and mate ) and concluded by inviting Stubb down into his cabin to drink a bottle of Bordeaux .
" He wants you to take a glass of wine with him ," said the interpreter .
" Thank him heartily ; but tell him it ' s against my principles to drink with the man I ' ve diddled .
In fact , tell him I must go ."
" He says , Monsieur , that his principles won ' t admit of his drinking ; but that if Monsieur wants to live another day to drink , then Monsieur had best drop all four boats , and pull the ship away from these whales , for it ' s so calm they won ' t drift ."
By this time Stubb was over the side , and getting into his boat , hailed the Guernsey - man to this effect ,-- that having a long tow - line in his boat , he would do what he could to help them , by pulling out the lighter whale of the two from the ship ' s side .
While the Frenchman ' s boats , then , were engaged in towing the ship one way , Stubb benevolently towed away at his whale the other way , ostentatiously slacking out a most unusually long tow - line .
Presently a breeze sprang up ; Stubb feigned to cast off from the whale ; hoisting his boats , the Frenchman soon increased his distance , while the Pequod slid in between him and Stubb ' s whale .
Whereupon Stubb quickly pulled to the floating body , and hailing the Pequod to give notice of his intentions , at once proceeded to reap the fruit of his unrighteous cunning .
Seizing his sharp boat - spade , he commenced an excavation in the body , a little behind the side fin .
You would almost have thought he was digging a cellar there in the sea ; and when at length his spade struck against the gaunt ribs , it was like turning up old Roman tiles and pottery buried in fat English loam .
His boat ' s crew were all in high excitement , eagerly helping their chief , and looking as anxious as gold - hunters .
And all the time numberless fowls were diving , and ducking , and screaming , and yelling , and fighting around them .
Stubb was beginning to look disappointed , especially as the horrible nosegay increased , when suddenly from out the very heart of this plague , there stole a faint stream of perfume , which flowed through the tide of bad smells without being absorbed by it , as one river will flow into and then along with another , without at all blending with it for a time .
" I have it , I have it ," cried Stubb , with delight , striking something in the subterranean regions , " a purse !
a purse !"
Dropping his spade , he thrust both hands in , and drew out handfuls of something that looked like ripe Windsor soap , or rich mottled old cheese ; very unctuous and savory withal .
You might easily dent it with your thumb ; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour .
And this , good friends , is ambergris , worth a gold guinea an ounce to any druggist .
Some six handfuls were obtained ; but more was unavoidably lost in the sea , and still more , perhaps , might have been secured were it not for impatient Ahab ' s loud command to Stubb to desist , and come on board , else the ship would bid them good bye .
CHAPTER 92
Ambergris .
Now this ambergris is a very curious substance , and so important as an article of commerce , that in 1791 a certain Nantucket - born Captain Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that subject .
For at that time , and indeed until a comparatively late day , the precise origin of ambergris remained , like amber itself , a problem to the learned .
Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for grey amber , yet the two substances are quite distinct .
For amber , though at times found on the sea - coast , is also dug up in some far inland soils , whereas ambergris is never found except upon the sea .
Besides , amber is a hard , transparent , brittle , odorless substance , used for mouth - pieces to pipes , for beads and ornaments ; but ambergris is soft , waxy , and so highly fragrant and spicy , that it is largely used in perfumery , in pastiles , precious candles , hair - powders , and pomatum .
The Turks use it in cooking , and also carry it to Mecca , for the same purpose that frankincense is carried to St . Peter ' s in Rome .
Some wine merchants drop a few grains into claret , to flavor it .
Who would think , then , that such fine ladies and gentlemen should regale themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of a sick whale !
Yet so it is .
By some , ambergris is supposed to be the cause , and by others the effect , of the dyspepsia in the whale .
How to cure such a dyspepsia it were hard to say , unless by administering three or four boat loads of Brandreth ' s pills , and then running out of harm ' s way , as laborers do in blasting rocks .
I have forgotten to say that there were found in this ambergris , certain hard , round , bony plates , which at first Stubb thought might be sailors ' trowsers buttons ; but it afterwards turned out that they were nothing more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner .
Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be found in the heart of such decay ; is this nothing ?
Bethink thee of that saying of St . Paul in Corinthians , about corruption and incorruption ; how that we are sown in dishonour , but raised in glory .
And likewise call to mind that saying of Paracelsus about what it is that maketh the best musk .
Also forget not the strange fact that of all things of ill - savor , Cologne - water , in its rudimental manufacturing stages , is the worst .
I should like to conclude the chapter with the above appeal , but cannot , owing to my anxiety to repel a charge often made against whalemen , and which , in the estimation of some already biased minds , might be considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said of the Frenchman ' s two whales .
Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous aspersion has been disproved , that the vocation of whaling is throughout a slatternly , untidy business .
But there is another thing to rebut .
They hint that all whales always smell bad .
Now how did this odious stigma originate ?
I opine , that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the Greenland whaling ships in London , more than two centuries ago .
Because those whalemen did not then , and do not now , try out their oil at sea as the Southern ships have always done ; but cutting up the fresh blubber in small bits , thrust it through the bung holes of large casks , and carry it home in that manner ; the shortness of the season in those Icy Seas , and the sudden and violent storms to which they are exposed , forbidding any other course .
The consequence is , that upon breaking into the hold , and unloading one of these whale cemeteries , in the Greenland dock , a savor is given forth somewhat similar to that arising from excavating an old city grave - yard , for the foundations of a Lying - in - Hospital .
I partly surmise also , that this wicked charge against whalers may be likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland , in former times , of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg , which latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack , in his great work on Smells , a text - book on that subject .
As its name imports ( smeer , fat ; berg , to put up ), this village was founded in order to afford a place for the blubber of the Dutch whale fleet to be tried out , without being taken home to Holland for that purpose .
It was a collection of furnaces , fat - kettles , and oil sheds ; and when the works were in full operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor .
But all this is quite different with a South Sea Sperm Whaler ; which in a voyage of four years perhaps , after completely filling her hold with oil , does not , perhaps , consume fifty days in the business of boiling out ; and in the state that it is casked , the oil is nearly scentless .
The truth is , that living or dead , if but decently treated , whales as a species are by no means creatures of ill odor ; nor can whalemen be recognised , as the people of the middle ages affected to detect a Jew in the company , by the nose .
Nor indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant , when , as a general thing , he enjoys such high health ; taking abundance of exercise ; always out of doors ; though , it is true , seldom in the open air .
I say , that the motion of a Sperm Whale ' s flukes above water dispenses a perfume , as when a musk - scented lady rustles her dress in a warm parlor .
What then shall I liken the Sperm Whale to for fragrance , considering his magnitude ?
Must it not be to that famous elephant , with jewelled tusks , and redolent with myrrh , which was led out of an Indian town to do honour to Alexander the Great ?
CHAPTER 93
The Castaway .
It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman , that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod ' s crew ; an event most lamentable ; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own .
Now , in the whale ship , it is not every one that goes in the boats .
Some few hands are reserved called ship - keepers , whose province it is to work the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale .
As a general thing , these ship - keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising the boats ' crews .
But if there happen to be an unduly slender , clumsy , or timorous wight in the ship , that wight is certain to be made a ship - keeper .
It was so in the Pequod with the little negro Pippin by nick - name , Pip by abbreviation .
Poor Pip !
ye have heard of him before ; ye must remember his tambourine on that dramatic midnight , so gloomy - jolly .
In outer aspect , Pip and Dough - Boy made a match , like a black pony and a white one , of equal developments , though of dissimilar colour , driven in one eccentric span .
But while hapless Dough - Boy was by nature dull and torpid in his intellects , Pip , though over tender - hearted , was at bottom very bright , with that pleasant , genial , jolly brightness peculiar to his tribe ; a tribe , which ever enjoy all holidays and festivities with finer , freer relish than any other race .
For blacks , the year ' s calendar should show naught but three hundred and sixty - five Fourth of Julys and New Year ' s Days .
Nor smile so , while I write that this little black was brilliant , for even blackness has its brilliancy ; behold yon lustrous ebony , panelled in king ' s cabinets .
But Pip loved life , and all life ' s peaceable securities ; so that the panic - striking business in which he had somehow unaccountably become entrapped , had most sadly blurred his brightness ; though , as ere long will be seen , what was thus temporarily subdued in him , in the end was destined to be luridly illumined by strange wild fires , that fictitiously showed him off to ten times the natural lustre with which in his native Tolland County in Connecticut , he had once enlivened many a fiddler ' s frolic on the green ; and at melodious even - tide , with his gay ha - ha !
had turned the round horizon into one star - belled tambourine .
So , though in the clear air of day , suspended against a blue - veined neck , the pure - watered diamond drop will healthful glow ; yet , when the cunning jeweller would show you the diamond in its most impressive lustre , he lays it against a gloomy ground , and then lights it up , not by the sun , but by some unnatural gases .
Then come out those fiery effulgences , infernally superb ; then the evil - blazing diamond , once the divinest symbol of the crystal skies , looks like some crown - jewel stolen from the King of Hell .
But let us to the story .
It came to pass , that in the ambergris affair Stubb ' s after - oarsman chanced so to sprain his hand , as for a time to become quite maimed ; and , temporarily , Pip was put into his place .
The first time Stubb lowered with him , Pip evinced much nervousness ; but happily , for that time , escaped close contact with the whale ; and therefore came off not altogether discreditably ; though Stubb observing him , took care , afterwards , to exhort him to cherish his courageousness to the utmost , for he might often find it needful .
Now upon the second lowering , the boat paddled upon the whale ; and as the fish received the darted iron , it gave its customary rap , which happened , in this instance , to be right under poor Pip ' s seat .
The involuntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap , paddle in hand , out of the boat ; and in such a way , that part of the slack whale line coming against his chest , he breasted it overboard with him , so as to become entangled in it , when at last plumping into the water .
That instant the stricken whale started on a fierce run , the line swiftly straightened ; and presto !
poor Pip came all foaming up to the chocks of the boat , remorselessly dragged there by the line , which had taken several turns around his chest and neck .
Tashtego stood in the bows .
He was full of the fire of the hunt .
He hated Pip for a poltroon .
Snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards Stubb , exclaimed interrogatively , " Cut ?"
Meantime Pip ' s blue , choked face plainly looked , Do , for God ' s sake !
All passed in a flash .
In less than half a minute , this entire thing happened .
" Damn him , cut !"
roared Stubb ; and so the whale was lost and Pip was saved .
So soon as he recovered himself , the poor little negro was assailed by yells and execrations from the crew .
Tranquilly permitting these irregular cursings to evaporate , Stubb then in a plain , business - like , but still half humorous manner , cursed Pip officially ; and that done , unofficially gave him much wholesome advice .
The substance was , Never jump from a boat , Pip , except -- but all the rest was indefinite , as the soundest advice ever is .
Now , in general , STICK TO THE BOAT , is your true motto in whaling ; but cases will sometimes happen when LEAP FROM THE BOAT , is still better .
Moreover , as if perceiving at last that if he should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip , he would be leaving him too wide a margin to jump in for the future ; Stubb suddenly dropped all advice , and concluded with a peremptory command , " Stick to the boat , Pip , or by the Lord , I won ' t pick you up if you jump ; mind that .
We can ' t afford to lose whales by the likes of you ; a whale would sell for thirty times what you would , Pip , in Alabama .
Bear that in mind , and don ' t jump any more ."
Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted , that though man loved his fellow , yet man is a money - making animal , which propensity too often interferes with his benevolence .
But we are all in the hands of the Gods ; and Pip jumped again .
It was under very similar circumstances to the first performance ; but this time he did not breast out the line ; and hence , when the whale started to run , Pip was left behind on the sea , like a hurried traveller ' s trunk .
Alas !
Stubb was but too true to his word .
It was a beautiful , bounteous , blue day ; the spangled sea calm and cool , and flatly stretching away , all round , to the horizon , like gold - beater ' s skin hammered out to the extremest .
Bobbing up and down in that sea , Pip ' s ebon head showed like a head of cloves .
No boat - knife was lifted when he fell so rapidly astern .
Stubb ' s inexorable back was turned upon him ; and the whale was winged .
In three minutes , a whole mile of shoreless ocean was between Pip and Stubb .
Out from the centre of the sea , poor Pip turned his crisp , curling , black head to the sun , another lonely castaway , though the loftiest and the brightest .
Now , in calm weather , to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the practised swimmer as to ride in a spring - carriage ashore .
But the awful lonesomeness is intolerable .
The intense concentration of self in the middle of such a heartless immensity , my God !
who can tell it ?
Mark , how when sailors in a dead calm bathe in the open sea -- mark how closely they hug their ship and only coast along her sides .
But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate ?
No ; he did not mean to , at least .
Because there were two boats in his wake , and he supposed , no doubt , that they would of course come up to Pip very quickly , and pick him up ; though , indeed , such considerations towards oarsmen jeopardized through their own timidity , is not always manifested by the hunters in all similar instances ; and such instances not unfrequently occur ; almost invariably in the fishery , a coward , so called , is marked with the same ruthless detestation peculiar to military navies and armies .
But it so happened , that those boats , without seeing Pip , suddenly spying whales close to them on one side , turned , and gave chase ; and Stubb ' s boat was now so far away , and he and all his crew so intent upon his fish , that Pip ' s ringed horizon began to expand around him miserably .
By the merest chance the ship itself at last rescued him ; but from that hour the little negro went about the deck an idiot ; such , at least , they said he was .
The sea had jeeringly kept his finite body up , but drowned the infinite of his soul .
Not drowned entirely , though .
Rather carried down alive to wondrous depths , where strange shapes of the unwarped primal world glided to and fro before his passive eyes ; and the miser - merman , Wisdom , revealed his hoarded heaps ; and among the joyous , heartless , ever - juvenile eternities , Pip saw the multitudinous , God - omnipresent , coral insects , that out of the firmament of waters heaved the colossal orbs .
He saw God ' s foot upon the treadle of the loom , and spoke it ; and therefore his shipmates called him mad .
So man ' s insanity is heaven ' s sense ; and wandering from all mortal reason , man comes at last to that celestial thought , which , to reason , is absurd and frantic ; and weal or woe , feels then uncompromised , indifferent as his God .
For the rest , blame not Stubb too hardly .
The thing is common in that fishery ; and in the sequel of the narrative , it will then be seen what like abandonment befell myself .
CHAPTER 94
A Squeeze of the Hand .
That whale of Stubb ' s , so dearly purchased , was duly brought to the Pequod ' s side , where all those cutting and hoisting operations previously detailed , were regularly gone through , even to the baling of the Heidelburgh Tun , or Case .
While some were occupied with this latter duty , others were employed in dragging away the larger tubs , so soon as filled with the sperm ; and when the proper time arrived , this same sperm was carefully manipulated ere going to the try - works , of which anon .
It had cooled and crystallized to such a degree , that when , with several others , I sat down before a large Constantine ' s bath of it , I found it strangely concreted into lumps , here and there rolling about in the liquid part .
It was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid .
A sweet and unctuous duty !
No wonder that in old times this sperm was such a favourite cosmetic .
Such a clearer !
such a sweetener !
such a softener !
such a delicious molifier !
After having my hands in it for only a few minutes , my fingers felt like eels , and began , as it were , to serpentine and spiralise .
As I sat there at my ease , cross - legged on the deck ; after the bitter exertion at the windlass ; under a blue tranquil sky ; the ship under indolent sail , and gliding so serenely along ; as I bathed my hands among those soft , gentle globules of infiltrated tissues , woven almost within the hour ; as they richly broke to my fingers , and discharged all their opulence , like fully ripe grapes their wine ; as I snuffed up that uncontaminated aroma ,-- literally and truly , like the smell of spring violets ; I declare to you , that for the time I lived as in a musky meadow ; I forgot all about our horrible oath ; in that inexpressible sperm , I washed my hands and my heart of it ; I almost began to credit the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue in allaying the heat of anger ; while bathing in that bath , I felt divinely free from all ill - will , or petulance , or malice , of any sort whatsoever .
Squeeze !
squeeze !
squeeze !
all the morning long ; I squeezed that sperm till I myself almost melted into it ; I squeezed that sperm till a strange sort of insanity came over me ; and I found myself unwittingly squeezing my co - laborers ' hands in it , mistaking their hands for the gentle globules .
Such an abounding , affectionate , friendly , loving feeling did this avocation beget ; that at last I was continually squeezing their hands , and looking up into their eyes sentimentally ; as much as to say ,-- Oh !
my dear fellow beings , why should we longer cherish any social acerbities , or know the slightest ill - humor or envy !
Come ; let us squeeze hands all round ; nay , let us all squeeze ourselves into each other ; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and sperm of kindness .
Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever !
For now , since by many prolonged , repeated experiences , I have perceived that in all cases man must eventually lower , or at least shift , his conceit of attainable felicity ; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy ; but in the wife , the heart , the bed , the table , the saddle , the fireside , the country ; now that I have perceived all this , I am ready to squeeze case eternally .
In thoughts of the visions of the night , I saw long rows of angels in paradise , each with his hands in a jar of spermaceti .
Now , while discoursing of sperm , it behooves to speak of other things akin to it , in the business of preparing the sperm whale for the try - works .
First comes white - horse , so called , which is obtained from the tapering part of the fish , and also from the thicker portions of his flukes .
It is tough with congealed tendons -- a wad of muscle -- but still contains some oil .
After being severed from the whale , the white - horse is first cut into portable oblongs ere going to the mincer .
They look much like blocks of Berkshire marble .
Plum - pudding is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the whale ' s flesh , here and there adhering to the blanket of blubber , and often participating to a considerable degree in its unctuousness .
It is a most refreshing , convivial , beautiful object to behold .
As its name imports , it is of an exceedingly rich , mottled tint , with a bestreaked snowy and golden ground , dotted with spots of the deepest crimson and purple .
It is plums of rubies , in pictures of citron .
Spite of reason , it is hard to keep yourself from eating it .
I confess , that once I stole behind the foremast to try it .
It tasted something as I should conceive a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might have tasted , supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison season , and that particular venison season contemporary with an unusually fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne .
There is another substance , and a very singular one , which turns up in the course of this business , but which I feel it to be very puzzling adequately to describe .
It is called slobgollion ; an appellation original with the whalemen , and even so is the nature of the substance .
It is an ineffably oozy , stringy affair , most frequently found in the tubs of sperm , after a prolonged squeezing , and subsequent decanting .
I hold it to be the wondrously thin , ruptured membranes of the case , coalescing .
Gurry , so called , is a term properly belonging to right whalemen , but sometimes incidentally used by the sperm fishermen .
It designates the dark , glutinous substance which is scraped off the back of the Greenland or right whale , and much of which covers the decks of those inferior souls who hunt that ignoble Leviathan .
Nippers .
Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale ' s vocabulary .
But as applied by whalemen , it becomes so .
A whaleman ' s nipper is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of Leviathan ' s tail : it averages an inch in thickness , and for the rest , is about the size of the iron part of a hoe .
Edgewise moved along the oily deck , it operates like a leathern squilgee ; and by nameless blandishments , as of magic , allures along with it all impurities .
But to learn all about these recondite matters , your best way is at once to descend into the blubber - room , and have a long talk with its inmates .
This place has previously been mentioned as the receptacle for the blanket - pieces , when stript and hoisted from the whale .
When the proper time arrives for cutting up its contents , this apartment is a scene of terror to all tyros , especially by night .
On one side , lit by a dull lantern , a space has been left clear for the workmen .
They generally go in pairs ,-- a pike - and - gaffman and a spade - man .
The whaling - pike is similar to a frigate ' s boarding - weapon of the same name .
The gaff is something like a boat - hook .
With his gaff , the gaffman hooks on to a sheet of blubber , and strives to hold it from slipping , as the ship pitches and lurches about .
Meanwhile , the spade - man stands on the sheet itself , perpendicularly chopping it into the portable horse - pieces .
This spade is sharp as hone can make it ; the spademan ' s feet are shoeless ; the thing he stands on will sometimes irresistibly slide away from him , like a sledge .
If he cuts off one of his own toes , or one of his assistants ', would you be very much astonished ?
Toes are scarce among veteran blubber - room men .
CHAPTER 95
The Cassock .
Had you stepped on board the Pequod at a certain juncture of this post - mortemizing of the whale ; and had you strolled forward nigh the windlass , pretty sure am I that you would have scanned with no small curiosity a very strange , enigmatical object , which you would have seen there , lying along lengthwise in the lee scuppers .
Not the wondrous cistern in the whale ' s huge head ; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower jaw ; not the miracle of his symmetrical tail ; none of these would so surprise you , as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone ,-- longer than a Kentuckian is tall , nigh a foot in diameter at the base , and jet - black as Yojo , the ebony idol of Queequeg .
And an idol , indeed , it is ; or , rather , in old times , its likeness was .
Such an idol as that found in the secret groves of Queen Maachah in Judea ; and for worshipping which , King Asa , her son , did depose her , and destroyed the idol , and burnt it for an abomination at the brook Kedron , as darkly set forth in the 15th chapter of the First Book of Kings .
Look at the sailor , called the mincer , who now comes along , and assisted by two allies , heavily backs the grandissimus , as the mariners call it , and with bowed shoulders , staggers off with it as if he were a grenadier carrying a dead comrade from the field .
Extending it upon the forecastle deck , he now proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt , as an African hunter the pelt of a boa .
This done he turns the pelt inside out , like a pantaloon leg ; gives it a good stretching , so as almost to double its diameter ; and at last hangs it , well spread , in the rigging , to dry .
Ere long , it is taken down ; when removing some three feet of it , towards the pointed extremity , and then cutting two slits for arm - holes at the other end , he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it .
The mincer now stands before you invested in the full canonicals of his calling .
Immemorial to all his order , this investiture alone will adequately protect him , while employed in the peculiar functions of his office .
That office consists in mincing the horse - pieces of blubber for the pots ; an operation which is conducted at a curious wooden horse , planted endwise against the bulwarks , and with a capacious tub beneath it , into which the minced pieces drop , fast as the sheets from a rapt orator ' s desk .
Arrayed in decent black ; occupying a conspicuous pulpit ; intent on bible leaves ; what a candidate for an archbishopric , what a lad for a Pope were this mincer !
*
* Bible leaves !
Bible leaves !
This is the invariable cry from the mates to the mincer .
It enjoins him to be careful , and cut his work into as thin slices as possible , inasmuch as by so doing the business of boiling out the oil is much accelerated , and its quantity considerably increased , besides perhaps improving it in quality .
CHAPTER 96
The Try - Works .
Besides her hoisted boats , an American whaler is outwardly distinguished by her try - works .
She presents the curious anomaly of the most solid masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting the completed ship .
It is as if from the open field a brick - kiln were transported to her planks .
The try - works are planted between the foremast and mainmast , the most roomy part of the deck .
The timbers beneath are of a peculiar strength , fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and mortar , some ten feet by eight square , and five in height .
The foundation does not penetrate the deck , but the masonry is firmly secured to the surface by ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all sides , and screwing it down to the timbers .
On the flanks it is cased with wood , and at top completely covered by a large , sloping , battened hatchway .
Removing this hatch we expose the great try - pots , two in number , and each of several barrels ' capacity .
When not in use , they are kept remarkably clean .
Sometimes they are polished with soapstone and sand , till they shine within like silver punch - bowls .
During the night - watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and coil themselves away there for a nap .
While employed in polishing them -- one man in each pot , side by side -- many confidential communications are carried on , over the iron lips .
It is a place also for profound mathematical meditation .
It was in the left hand try - pot of the Pequod , with the soapstone diligently circling round me , that I was first indirectly struck by the remarkable fact , that in geometry all bodies gliding along the cycloid , my soapstone for example , will descend from any point in precisely the same time .
Removing the fire - board from the front of the try - works , the bare masonry of that side is exposed , penetrated by the two iron mouths of the furnaces , directly underneath the pots .
These mouths are fitted with heavy doors of iron .
The intense heat of the fire is prevented from communicating itself to the deck , by means of a shallow reservoir extending under the entire inclosed surface of the works .
By a tunnel inserted at the rear , this reservoir is kept replenished with water as fast as it evaporates .
There are no external chimneys ; they open direct from the rear wall .
And here let us go back for a moment .
It was about nine o ' clock at night that the Pequod ' s try - works were first started on this present voyage .
It belonged to Stubb to oversee the business .
" All ready there ?
Off hatch , then , and start her .
You cook , fire the works ."
This was an easy thing , for the carpenter had been thrusting his shavings into the furnace throughout the passage .
Here be it said that in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try - works has to be fed for a time with wood .
After that no wood is used , except as a means of quick ignition to the staple fuel .
In a word , after being tried out , the crisp , shrivelled blubber , now called scraps or fritters , still contains considerable of its unctuous properties .
These fritters feed the flames .
Like a plethoric burning martyr , or a self - consuming misanthrope , once ignited , the whale supplies his own fuel and burns by his own body .
Would that he consumed his own smoke !
for his smoke is horrible to inhale , and inhale it you must , and not only that , but you must live in it for the time .
It has an unspeakable , wild , Hindoo odor about it , such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyres .
It smells like the left wing of the day of judgment ; it is an argument for the pit .
By midnight the works were in full operation .
We were clear from the carcase ; sail had been made ; the wind was freshening ; the wild ocean darkness was intense .
But that darkness was licked up by the fierce flames , which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues , and illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging , as with the famed Greek fire .
The burning ship drove on , as if remorselessly commissioned to some vengeful deed .
So the pitch and sulphur - freighted brigs of the bold Hydriote , Canaris , issuing from their midnight harbors , with broad sheets of flame for sails , bore down upon the Turkish frigates , and folded them in conflagrations .
The hatch , removed from the top of the works , now afforded a wide hearth in front of them .
Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of the pagan harpooneers , always the whale - ship ' s stokers .
With huge pronged poles they pitched hissing masses of blubber into the scalding pots , or stirred up the fires beneath , till the snaky flames darted , curling , out of the doors to catch them by the feet .
The smoke rolled away in sullen heaps .
To every pitch of the ship there was a pitch of the boiling oil , which seemed all eagerness to leap into their faces .
Opposite the mouth of the works , on the further side of the wide wooden hearth , was the windlass .
This served for a sea - sofa .
Here lounged the watch , when not otherwise employed , looking into the red heat of the fire , till their eyes felt scorched in their heads .
Their tawny features , now all begrimed with smoke and sweat , their matted beards , and the contrasting barbaric brilliancy of their teeth , all these were strangely revealed in the capricious emblazonings of the works .
As they narrated to each other their unholy adventures , their tales of terror told in words of mirth ; as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them , like the flames from the furnace ; as to and fro , in their front , the harpooneers wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged forks and dippers ; as the wind howled on , and the sea leaped , and the ship groaned and dived , and yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness of the sea and the night , and scornfully champed the white bone in her mouth , and viciously spat round her on all sides ; then the rushing Pequod , freighted with savages , and laden with fire , and burning a corpse , and plunging into that blackness of darkness , seemed the material counterpart of her monomaniac commander ' s soul .
So seemed it to me , as I stood at her helm , and for long hours silently guided the way of this fire - ship on the sea .
Wrapped , for that interval , in darkness myself , I but the better saw the redness , the madness , the ghastliness of others .
The continual sight of the fiend shapes before me , capering half in smoke and half in fire , these at last begat kindred visions in my soul , so soon as I began to yield to that unaccountable drowsiness which ever would come over me at a midnight helm .
But that night , in particular , a strange ( and ever since inexplicable ) thing occurred to me .
Starting from a brief standing sleep , I was horribly conscious of something fatally wrong .
The jaw - bone tiller smote my side , which leaned against it ; in my ears was the low hum of sails , just beginning to shake in the wind ; I thought my eyes were open ; I was half conscious of putting my fingers to the lids and mechanically stretching them still further apart .
But , spite of all this , I could see no compass before me to steer by ; though it seemed but a minute since I had been watching the card , by the steady binnacle lamp illuminating it .
Nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom , now and then made ghastly by flashes of redness .
Uppermost was the impression , that whatever swift , rushing thing I stood on was not so much bound to any haven ahead as rushing from all havens astern .
A stark , bewildered feeling , as of death , came over me .
Convulsively my hands grasped the tiller , but with the crazy conceit that the tiller was , somehow , in some enchanted way , inverted .
My God !
what is the matter with me ?
thought I .
Lo !
in my brief sleep I had turned myself about , and was fronting the ship ' s stern , with my back to her prow and the compass .
In an instant I faced back , just in time to prevent the vessel from flying up into the wind , and very probably capsizing her .
How glad and how grateful the relief from this unnatural hallucination of the night , and the fatal contingency of being brought by the lee !
Look not too long in the face of the fire , O man !
Never dream with thy hand on the helm !
Turn not thy back to the compass ; accept the first hint of the hitching tiller ; believe not the artificial fire , when its redness makes all things look ghastly .
To - morrow , in the natural sun , the skies will be bright ; those who glared like devils in the forking flames , the morn will show in far other , at least gentler , relief ; the glorious , golden , glad sun , the only true lamp -- all others but liars !
Nevertheless the sun hides not Virginia ' s Dismal Swamp , nor Rome ' s accursed Campagna , nor wide Sahara , nor all the millions of miles of deserts and of griefs beneath the moon .
The sun hides not the ocean , which is the dark side of this earth , and which is two thirds of this earth .
So , therefore , that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow in him , that mortal man cannot be true -- not true , or undeveloped .
With books the same .
The truest of all men was the Man of Sorrows , and the truest of all books is Solomon ' s , and Ecclesiastes is the fine hammered steel of woe .
" All is vanity ."
ALL .
This wilful world hath not got hold of unchristian Solomon ' s wisdom yet .
But he who dodges hospitals and jails , and walks fast crossing graveyards , and would rather talk of operas than hell ; calls Cowper , Young , Pascal , Rousseau , poor devils all of sick men ; and throughout a care - free lifetime swears by Rabelais as passing wise , and therefore jolly ;-- not that man is fitted to sit down on tomb - stones , and break the green damp mould with unfathomably wondrous Solomon .
But even Solomon , he says , " the man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall remain " ( I . E ., even while living ) " in the congregation of the dead ."
Give not thyself up , then , to fire , lest it invert thee , deaden thee ; as for the time it did me .
There is a wisdom that is woe ; but there is a woe that is madness .
And there is a Catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest gorges , and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces .
And even if he for ever flies within the gorge , that gorge is in the mountains ; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still higher than other birds upon the plain , even though they soar .
CHAPTER 97
The Lamp .
Had you descended from the Pequod ' s try - works to the Pequod ' s forecastle , where the off duty watch were sleeping , for one single moment you would have almost thought you were standing in some illuminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors .
There they lay in their triangular oaken vaults , each mariner a chiselled muteness ; a score of lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes .
In merchantmen , oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of queens .
To dress in the dark , and eat in the dark , and stumble in darkness to his pallet , this is his usual lot .
But the whaleman , as he seeks the food of light , so he lives in light .
He makes his berth an Aladdin ' s lamp , and lays him down in it ; so that in the pitchiest night the ship ' s black hull still houses an illumination .
See with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of lamps -- often but old bottles and vials , though -- to the copper cooler at the try - works , and replenishes them there , as mugs of ale at a vat .
He burns , too , the purest of oil , in its unmanufactured , and , therefore , unvitiated state ; a fluid unknown to solar , lunar , or astral contrivances ashore .
It is sweet as early grass butter in April .
He goes and hunts for his oil , so as to be sure of its freshness and genuineness , even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his own supper of game .
CHAPTER 98
Stowing Down and Clearing Up .
Already has it been related how the great leviathan is afar off descried from the mast - head ; how he is chased over the watery moors , and slaughtered in the valleys of the deep ; how he is then towed alongside and beheaded ; and how ( on the principle which entitled the headsman of old to the garments in which the beheaded was killed ) his great padded surtout becomes the property of his executioner ; how , in due time , he is condemned to the pots , and , like Shadrach , Meshach , and Abednego , his spermaceti , oil , and bone pass unscathed through the fire ;-- but now it remains to conclude the last chapter of this part of the description by rehearsing -- singing , if I may -- the romantic proceeding of decanting off his oil into the casks and striking them down into the hold , where once again leviathan returns to his native profundities , sliding along beneath the surface as before ; but , alas !
never more to rise and blow .
While still warm , the oil , like hot punch , is received into the six - barrel casks ; and while , perhaps , the ship is pitching and rolling this way and that in the midnight sea , the enormous casks are slewed round and headed over , end for end , and sometimes perilously scoot across the slippery deck , like so many land slides , till at last man - handled and stayed in their course ; and all round the hoops , rap , rap , go as many hammers as can play upon them , for now , EX OFFICIO , every sailor is a cooper .
At length , when the last pint is casked , and all is cool , then the great hatchways are unsealed , the bowels of the ship are thrown open , and down go the casks to their final rest in the sea .
This done , the hatches are replaced , and hermetically closed , like a closet walled up .
In the sperm fishery , this is perhaps one of the most remarkable incidents in all the business of whaling .
One day the planks stream with freshets of blood and oil ; on the sacred quarter - deck enormous masses of the whale ' s head are profanely piled ; great rusty casks lie about , as in a brewery yard ; the smoke from the try - works has besooted all the bulwarks ; the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness ; the entire ship seems great leviathan himself ; while on all hands the din is deafening .
But a day or two after , you look about you , and prick your ears in this self - same ship ; and were it not for the tell - tale boats and try - works , you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel , with a most scrupulously neat commander .
The unmanufactured sperm oil possesses a singularly cleansing virtue .
This is the reason why the decks never look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil .
Besides , from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale , a potent lye is readily made ; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back of the whale remains clinging to the side , that lye quickly exterminates it .
Hands go diligently along the bulwarks , and with buckets of water and rags restore them to their full tidiness .
The soot is brushed from the lower rigging .
All the numerous implements which have been in use are likewise faithfully cleansed and put away .
The great hatch is scrubbed and placed upon the try - works , completely hiding the pots ; every cask is out of sight ; all tackles are coiled in unseen nooks ; and when by the combined and simultaneous industry of almost the entire ship ' s company , the whole of this conscientious duty is at last concluded , then the crew themselves proceed to their own ablutions ; shift themselves from top to toe ; and finally issue to the immaculate deck , fresh and all aglow , as bridegrooms new - leaped from out the daintiest Holland .
Now , with elated step , they pace the planks in twos and threes , and humorously discourse of parlors , sofas , carpets , and fine cambrics ; propose to mat the deck ; think of having hanging to the top ; object not to taking tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle .
To hint to such musked mariners of oil , and bone , and blubber , were little short of audacity .
They know not the thing you distantly allude to .
Away , and bring us napkins !
But mark : aloft there , at the three mast heads , stand three men intent on spying out more whales , which , if caught , infallibly will again soil the old oaken furniture , and drop at least one small grease - spot somewhere .
Yes ; and many is the time , when , after the severest uninterrupted labors , which know no night ; continuing straight through for ninety - six hours ; when from the boat , where they have swelled their wrists with all day rowing on the Line ,-- they only step to the deck to carry vast chains , and heave the heavy windlass , and cut and slash , yea , and in their very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the combined fires of the equatorial sun and the equatorial try - works ; when , on the heel of all this , they have finally bestirred themselves to cleanse the ship , and make a spotless dairy room of it ; many is the time the poor fellows , just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks , are startled by the cry of " There she blows !"
and away they fly to fight another whale , and go through the whole weary thing again .
Oh !
my friends , but this is man - killing !
Yet this is life .
For hardly have we mortals by long toilings extracted from this world ' s vast bulk its small but valuable sperm ; and then , with weary patience , cleansed ourselves from its defilements , and learned to live here in clean tabernacles of the soul ; hardly is this done , when -- THERE SHE BLOWS !-- the ghost is spouted up , and away we sail to fight some other world , and go through young life ' s old routine again .
Oh !
the metempsychosis !
Oh !
Pythagoras , that in bright Greece , two thousand years ago , did die , so good , so wise , so mild ; I sailed with thee along the Peruvian coast last voyage -- and , foolish as I am , taught thee , a green simple boy , how to splice a rope !
CHAPTER 99
The Doubloon .
Ere now it has been related how Ahab was wont to pace his quarter - deck , taking regular turns at either limit , the binnacle and mainmast ; but in the multiplicity of other things requiring narration it has not been added how that sometimes in these walks , when most plunged in his mood , he was wont to pause in turn at each spot , and stand there strangely eyeing the particular object before him .
When he halted before the binnacle , with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the compass , that glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his purpose ; and when resuming his walk he again paused before the mainmast , then , as the same riveted glance fastened upon the riveted gold coin there , he still wore the same aspect of nailed firmness , only dashed with a certain wild longing , if not hopefulness .
But one morning , turning to pass the doubloon , he seemed to be newly attracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it , as though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in some monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them .
And some certain significance lurks in all things , else all things are little worth , and the round world itself but an empty cipher , except to sell by the cartload , as they do hills about Boston , to fill up some morass in the Milky Way .
Now this doubloon was of purest , virgin gold , raked somewhere out of the heart of gorgeous hills , whence , east and west , over golden sands , the head - waters of many a Pactolus flows .
And though now nailed amidst all the rustiness of iron bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes , yet , untouchable and immaculate to any foulness , it still preserved its Quito glow .
Nor , though placed amongst a ruthless crew and every hour passed by ruthless hands , and through the livelong nights shrouded with thick darkness which might cover any pilfering approach , nevertheless every sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left it last .
For it was set apart and sanctified to one awe - striking end ; and however wanton in their sailor ways , one and all , the mariners revered it as the white whale ' s talisman .
Sometimes they talked it over in the weary watch by night , wondering whose it was to be at last , and whether he would ever live to spend it .
Now those noble golden coins of South America are as medals of the sun and tropic token - pieces .
Here palms , alpacas , and volcanoes ; sun ' s disks and stars ; ecliptics , horns - of - plenty , and rich banners waving , are in luxuriant profusion stamped ; so that the precious gold seems almost to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories , by passing through those fancy mints , so Spanishly poetic .
It so chanced that the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy example of these things .
On its round border it bore the letters , REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR : QUITO .
So this bright coin came from a country planted in the middle of the world , and beneath the great equator , and named after it ; and it had been cast midway up the Andes , in the unwaning clime that knows no autumn .
Zoned by those letters you saw the likeness of three Andes ' summits ; from one a flame ; a tower on another ; on the third a crowing cock ; while arching over all was a segment of the partitioned zodiac , the signs all marked with their usual cabalistics , and the keystone sun entering the equinoctial point at Libra .
Before this equatorial coin , Ahab , not unobserved by others , was now pausing .
" There ' s something ever egotistical in mountain - tops and towers , and all other grand and lofty things ; look here ,-- three peaks as proud as Lucifer .
The firm tower , that is Ahab ; the volcano , that is Ahab ; the courageous , the undaunted , and victorious fowl , that , too , is Ahab ; all are Ahab ; and this round gold is but the image of the rounder globe , which , like a magician ' s glass , to each and every man in turn but mirrors back his own mysterious self .
Great pains , small gains for those who ask the world to solve them ; it cannot solve itself .
Methinks now this coined sun wears a ruddy face ; but see !
aye , he enters the sign of storms , the equinox !
and but six months before he wheeled out of a former equinox at Aries !
From storm to storm !
So be it , then .
Born in throes , ' t is fit that man should live in pains and die in pangs !
So be it , then !
Here ' s stout stuff for woe to work on .
So be it , then ."
" No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold , but devil ' s claws must have left their mouldings there since yesterday ," murmured Starbuck to himself , leaning against the bulwarks .
" The old man seems to read Belshazzar ' s awful writing .
I have never marked the coin inspectingly .
He goes below ; let me read .
A dark valley between three mighty , heaven - abiding peaks , that almost seem the Trinity , in some faint earthly symbol .
So in this vale of Death , God girds us round ; and over all our gloom , the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a hope .
If we bend down our eyes , the dark vale shows her mouldy soil ; but if we lift them , the bright sun meets our glance half way , to cheer .
Yet , oh , the great sun is no fixture ; and if , at midnight , we would fain snatch some sweet solace from him , we gaze for him in vain !
This coin speaks wisely , mildly , truly , but still sadly to me .
I will quit it , lest Truth shake me falsely ."
" There now ' s the old Mogul ," soliloquized Stubb by the try - works , " he ' s been twigging it ; and there goes Starbuck from the same , and both with faces which I should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long .
And all from looking at a piece of gold , which did I have it now on Negro Hill or in Corlaer ' s Hook , I ' d not look at it very long ere spending it .
Humph !
in my poor , insignificant opinion , I regard this as queer .
I have seen doubloons before now in my voyagings ; your doubloons of old Spain , your doubloons of Peru , your doubloons of Chili , your doubloons of Bolivia , your doubloons of Popayan ; with plenty of gold moidores and pistoles , and joes , and half joes , and quarter joes .
What then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killing wonderful ?
By Golconda !
let me read it once .
Halloa !
here ' s signs and wonders truly !
That , now , is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calls the zodiac , and what my almanac below calls ditto .
I ' ll get the almanac and as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll ' s arithmetic , I ' ll try my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer curvicues here with the Massachusetts calendar .
Here ' s the book .
Let ' s see now .
Signs and wonders ; and the sun , he ' s always among ' em .
Hem , hem , hem ; here they are -- here they go -- all alive :-- Aries , or the Ram ; Taurus , or the Bull and Jimimi !
here ' s Gemini himself , or the Twins .
Well ; the sun he wheels among ' em .
Aye , here on the coin he ' s just crossing the threshold between two of twelve sitting - rooms all in a ring .
Book !
you lie there ; the fact is , you books must know your places .
You ' ll do to give us the bare words and facts , but we come in to supply the thoughts .
That ' s my small experience , so far as the Massachusetts calendar , and Bowditch ' s navigator , and Daboll ' s arithmetic go .
Signs and wonders , eh ?
Pity if there is nothing wonderful in signs , and significant in wonders !
There ' s a clue somewhere ; wait a bit ; hist -- hark !
By Jove , I have it !
Look you , Doubloon , your zodiac here is the life of man in one round chapter ; and now I ' ll read it off , straight out of the book .
Come , Almanack !
To begin : there ' s Aries , or the Ram -- lecherous dog , he begets us ; then , Taurus , or the Bull -- he bumps us the first thing ; then Gemini , or the Twins -- that is , Virtue and Vice ; we try to reach Virtue , when lo !
comes Cancer the Crab , and drags us back ; and here , going from Virtue , Leo , a roaring Lion , lies in the path -- he gives a few fierce bites and surly dabs with his paw ; we escape , and hail Virgo , the Virgin !
that ' s our first love ; we marry and think to be happy for aye , when pop comes Libra , or the Scales -- happiness weighed and found wanting ; and while we are very sad about that , Lord !
how we suddenly jump , as Scorpio , or the Scorpion , stings us in the rear ; we are curing the wound , when whang come the arrows all round ; Sagittarius , or the Archer , is amusing himself .
As we pluck out the shafts , stand aside !
here ' s the battering - ram , Capricornus , or the Goat ; full tilt , he comes rushing , and headlong we are tossed ; when Aquarius , or the Water - bearer , pours out his whole deluge and drowns us ; and to wind up with Pisces , or the Fishes , we sleep .
There ' s a sermon now , writ in high heaven , and the sun goes through it every year , and yet comes out of it all alive and hearty .
Jollily he , aloft there , wheels through toil and trouble ; and so , alow here , does jolly Stubb .
Oh , jolly ' s the word for aye !
Adieu , Doubloon !
But stop ; here comes little King - Post ; dodge round the try - works , now , and let ' s hear what he ' ll have to say .
There ; he ' s before it ; he ' ll out with something presently .
So , so ; he ' s beginning ."
" I see nothing here , but a round thing made of gold , and whoever raises a certain whale , this round thing belongs to him .
So , what ' s all this staring been about ?
It is worth sixteen dollars , that ' s true ; and at two cents the cigar , that ' s nine hundred and sixty cigars .
I won ' t smoke dirty pipes like Stubb , but I like cigars , and here ' s nine hundred and sixty of them ; so here goes Flask aloft to spy ' em out ."
" Shall I call that wise or foolish , now ; if it be really wise it has a foolish look to it ; yet , if it be really foolish , then has it a sort of wiseish look to it .
But , avast ; here comes our old Manxman -- the old hearse - driver , he must have been , that is , before he took to the sea .
He luffs up before the doubloon ; halloa , and goes round on the other side of the mast ; why , there ' s a horse - shoe nailed on that side ; and now he ' s back again ; what does that mean ?
Hark !
he ' s muttering -- voice like an old worn - out coffee - mill .
Prick ears , and listen !"
" If the White Whale be raised , it must be in a month and a day , when the sun stands in some one of these signs .
I ' ve studied signs , and know their marks ; they were taught me two score years ago , by the old witch in Copenhagen .
Now , in what sign will the sun then be ?
The horse - shoe sign ; for there it is , right opposite the gold .
And what ' s the horse - shoe sign ?
The lion is the horse - shoe sign -- the roaring and devouring lion .
Ship , old ship !
my old head shakes to think of thee ."
" There ' s another rendering now ; but still one text .
All sorts of men in one kind of world , you see .
Dodge again !
here comes Queequeg -- all tattooing -- looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself .
What says the Cannibal ?
As I live he ' s comparing notes ; looking at his thigh bone ; thinks the sun is in the thigh , or in the calf , or in the bowels , I suppose , as the old women talk Surgeon ' s Astronomy in the back country .
And by Jove , he ' s found something there in the vicinity of his thigh -- I guess it ' s Sagittarius , or the Archer .
No : he don ' t know what to make of the doubloon ; he takes it for an old button off some king ' s trowsers .
But , aside again !
here comes that ghost - devil , Fedallah ; tail coiled out of sight as usual , oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual .
What does he say , with that look of his ?
Ah , only makes a sign to the sign and bows himself ; there is a sun on the coin -- fire worshipper , depend upon it .
Ho !
more and more .
This way comes Pip -- poor boy !
would he had died , or I ; he ' s half horrible to me .
He too has been watching all of these interpreters -- myself included -- and look now , he comes to read , with that unearthly idiot face .
Stand away again and hear him .
Hark !"
" I look , you look , he looks ; we look , ye look , they look ."
" Upon my soul , he ' s been studying Murray ' s Grammar !
Improving his mind , poor fellow !
But what ' s that he says now -- hist !"
" I look , you look , he looks ; we look , ye look , they look ."
" Why , he ' s getting it by heart -- hist !
again ."
" I look , you look , he looks ; we look , ye look , they look ."
" Well , that ' s funny ."
" And I , you , and he ; and we , ye , and they , are all bats ; and I ' m a crow , especially when I stand a ' top of this pine tree here .
Caw !
caw !
caw !
caw !
caw !
caw !
Ain ' t I a crow ?
And where ' s the scare - crow ?
There he stands ; two bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers , and two more poked into the sleeves of an old jacket ."
" Wonder if he means me ?-- complimentary !-- poor lad !-- I could go hang myself .
Any way , for the present , I ' ll quit Pip ' s vicinity .
I can stand the rest , for they have plain wits ; but he ' s too crazy - witty for my sanity .
So , so , I leave him muttering ."
" Here ' s the ship ' s navel , this doubloon here , and they are all on fire to unscrew it .
But , unscrew your navel , and what ' s the consequence ?
Then again , if it stays here , that is ugly , too , for when aught ' s nailed to the mast it ' s a sign that things grow desperate .
Ha , ha !
old Ahab !
the White Whale ; he ' ll nail ye !
This is a pine tree .
My father , in old Tolland county , cut down a pine tree once , and found a silver ring grown over in it ; some old darkey ' s wedding ring .
How did it get there ?
And so they ' ll say in the resurrection , when they come to fish up this old mast , and find a doubloon lodged in it , with bedded oysters for the shaggy bark .
Oh , the gold !
the precious , precious , gold !
the green miser ' ll hoard ye soon !
Hish !
hish !
God goes ' mong the worlds blackberrying .
Cook !
ho , cook !
and cook us !
Jenny !
hey , hey , hey , hey , hey , Jenny , Jenny !
and get your hoe - cake done !"
CHAPTER 100
Leg and Arm .
The Pequod , of Nantucket , Meets the Samuel Enderby , of London .
" Ship , ahoy !
Hast seen the White Whale ?"
So cried Ahab , once more hailing a ship showing English colours , bearing down under the stern .
Trumpet to mouth , the old man was standing in his hoisted quarter - boat , his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger captain , who was carelessly reclining in his own boat ' s bow .
He was a darkly - tanned , burly , good - natured , fine - looking man , of sixty or thereabouts , dressed in a spacious roundabout , that hung round him in festoons of blue pilot - cloth ; and one empty arm of this jacket streamed behind him like the broidered arm of a hussar ' s surcoat .
" Hast seen the White Whale !"
" See you this ?"
and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it , he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone , terminating in a wooden head like a mallet .
" Man my boat !"
cried Ahab , impetuously , and tossing about the oars near him --" Stand by to lower !"
In less than a minute , without quitting his little craft , he and his crew were dropped to the water , and were soon alongside of the stranger .
But here a curious difficulty presented itself .
In the excitement of the moment , Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own , and then it was always by an ingenious and very handy mechanical contrivance peculiar to the Pequod , and a thing not to be rigged and shipped in any other vessel at a moment ' s warning .
Now , it is no very easy matter for anybody -- except those who are almost hourly used to it , like whalemen -- to clamber up a ship ' s side from a boat on the open sea ; for the great swells now lift the boat high up towards the bulwarks , and then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson .
So , deprived of one leg , and the strange ship of course being altogether unsupplied with the kindly invention , Ahab now found himself abjectly reduced to a clumsy landsman again ; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain changeful height he could hardly hope to attain .
It has before been hinted , perhaps , that every little untoward circumstance that befell him , and which indirectly sprang from his luckless mishap , almost invariably irritated or exasperated Ahab .
And in the present instance , all this was heightened by the sight of the two officers of the strange ship , leaning over the side , by the perpendicular ladder of nailed cleets there , and swinging towards him a pair of tastefully - ornamented man - ropes ; for at first they did not seem to bethink them that a one - legged man must be too much of a cripple to use their sea bannisters .
But this awkwardness only lasted a minute , because the strange captain , observing at a glance how affairs stood , cried out , " I see , I see !-- avast heaving there !
Jump , boys , and swing over the cutting - tackle ."
As good luck would have it , they had had a whale alongside a day or two previous , and the great tackles were still aloft , and the massive curved blubber - hook , now clean and dry , was still attached to the end .
This was quickly lowered to Ahab , who at once comprehending it all , slid his solitary thigh into the curve of the hook ( it was like sitting in the fluke of an anchor , or the crotch of an apple tree ), and then giving the word , held himself fast , and at the same time also helped to hoist his own weight , by pulling hand - over - hand upon one of the running parts of the tackle .
Soon he was carefully swung inside the high bulwarks , and gently landed upon the capstan head .
With his ivory arm frankly thrust forth in welcome , the other captain advanced , and Ahab , putting out his ivory leg , and crossing the ivory arm ( like two sword - fish blades ) cried out in his walrus way , " Aye , aye , hearty !
let us shake bones together !-- an arm and a leg !-- an arm that never can shrink , d ' ye see ; and a leg that never can run .
Where did ' st thou see the White Whale ?-- how long ago ?"
" The White Whale ," said the Englishman , pointing his ivory arm towards the East , and taking a rueful sight along it , as if it had been a telescope ; " there I saw him , on the Line , last season ."
" And he took that arm off , did he ?"
asked Ahab , now sliding down from the capstan , and resting on the Englishman ' s shoulder , as he did so .
" Aye , he was the cause of it , at least ; and that leg , too ?"
" Spin me the yarn ," said Ahab ; " how was it ?"
" It was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the Line ," began the Englishman .
" I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time .
Well , one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales , and my boat fastened to one of them ; a regular circus horse he was , too , that went milling and milling round so , that my boat ' s crew could only trim dish , by sitting all their sterns on the outer gunwale .
Presently up breaches from the bottom of the sea a bouncing great whale , with a milky - white head and hump , all crows ' feet and wrinkles ."
" It was he , it was he !"
cried Ahab , suddenly letting out his suspended breath .
" And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin ."
" Aye , aye -- they were mine -- MY irons ," cried Ahab , exultingly --" but on !"
" Give me a chance , then ," said the Englishman , good - humoredly .
" Well , this old great - grandfather , with the white head and hump , runs all afoam into the pod , and goes to snapping furiously at my fast - line !
" Aye , I see !-- wanted to part it ; free the fast - fish -- an old trick -- I know him ."
" How it was exactly ," continued the one - armed commander , " I do not know ; but in biting the line , it got foul of his teeth , caught there somehow ; but we didn ' t know it then ; so that when we afterwards pulled on the line , bounce we came plump on to his hump !
instead of the other whale ' s ; that went off to windward , all fluking .
Seeing how matters stood , and what a noble great whale it was -- the noblest and biggest I ever saw , sir , in my life -- I resolved to capture him , spite of the boiling rage he seemed to be in .
And thinking the hap - hazard line would get loose , or the tooth it was tangled to might draw ( for I have a devil of a boat ' s crew for a pull on a whale - line ); seeing all this , I say , I jumped into my first mate ' s boat -- Mr . Mounttop ' s here ( by the way , Captain -- Mounttop ; Mounttop -- the captain );-- as I was saying , I jumped into Mounttop ' s boat , which , d ' ye see , was gunwale and gunwale with mine , then ; and snatching the first harpoon , let this old great - grandfather have it .
But , Lord , look you , sir -- hearts and souls alive , man -- the next instant , in a jiff , I was blind as a bat -- both eyes out -- all befogged and bedeadened with black foam -- the whale ' s tail looming straight up out of it , perpendicular in the air , like a marble steeple .
No use sterning all , then ; but as I was groping at midday , with a blinding sun , all crown - jewels ; as I was groping , I say , after the second iron , to toss it overboard -- down comes the tail like a Lima tower , cutting my boat in two , leaving each half in splinters ; and , flukes first , the white hump backed through the wreck , as though it was all chips .
We all struck out .
To escape his terrible flailings , I seized hold of my harpoon - pole sticking in him , and for a moment clung to that like a sucking fish .
But a combing sea dashed me off , and at the same instant , the fish , taking one good dart forwards , went down like a flash ; and the barb of that cursed second iron towing along near me caught me here " ( clapping his hand just below his shoulder ); " yes , caught me just here , I say , and bore me down to Hell ' s flames , I was thinking ; when , when , all of a sudden , thank the good God , the barb ript its way along the flesh -- clear along the whole length of my arm -- came out nigh my wrist , and up I floated ;-- and that gentleman there will tell you the rest ( by the way , captain -- Dr . Bunger , ship ' s surgeon : Bunger , my lad ,-- the captain ).
Now , Bunger boy , spin your part of the yarn ."
The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out , had been all the time standing near them , with nothing specific visible , to denote his gentlemanly rank on board .
His face was an exceedingly round but sober one ; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt , and patched trowsers ; and had thus far been dividing his attention between a marlingspike he held in one hand , and a pill - box held in the other , occasionally casting a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two crippled captains .
But , at his superior ' s introduction of him to Ahab , he politely bowed , and straightway went on to do his captain ' s bidding .
" It was a shocking bad wound ," began the whale - surgeon ; " and , taking my advice , Captain Boomer here , stood our old Sammy --"
" Samuel Enderby is the name of my ship ," interrupted the one - armed captain , addressing Ahab ; " go on , boy ."
" Stood our old Sammy off to the northward , to get out of the blazing hot weather there on the Line .
But it was no use -- I did all I could ; sat up with him nights ; was very severe with him in the matter of diet --"
" Oh , very severe !"
chimed in the patient himself ; then suddenly altering his voice , " Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night , till he couldn ' t see to put on the bandages ; and sending me to bed , half seas over , about three o ' clock in the morning .
Oh , ye stars !
he sat up with me indeed , and was very severe in my diet .
Oh !
a great watcher , and very dietetically severe , is Dr . Bunger .
( Bunger , you dog , laugh out !
why don ' t ye ?
You know you ' re a precious jolly rascal .)
But , heave ahead , boy , I ' d rather be killed by you than kept alive by any other man ."
" My captain , you must have ere this perceived , respected sir "-- said the imperturbable godly - looking Bunger , slightly bowing to Ahab --" is apt to be facetious at times ; he spins us many clever things of that sort .
But I may as well say -- en passant , as the French remark -- that I myself -- that is to say , Jack Bunger , late of the reverend clergy -- am a strict total abstinence man ; I never drink --"
" Water !"
cried the captain ; " he never drinks it ; it ' s a sort of fits to him ; fresh water throws him into the hydrophobia ; but go on -- go on with the arm story ."
" Yes , I may as well ," said the surgeon , coolly .
" I was about observing , sir , before Captain Boomer ' s facetious interruption , that spite of my best and severest endeavors , the wound kept getting worse and worse ; the truth was , sir , it was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw ; more than two feet and several inches long .
I measured it with the lead line .
In short , it grew black ; I knew what was threatened , and off it came .
But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there ; that thing is against all rule "-- pointing at it with the marlingspike --" that is the captain ' s work , not mine ; he ordered the carpenter to make it ; he had that club - hammer there put to the end , to knock some one ' s brains out with , I suppose , as he tried mine once .
He flies into diabolical passions sometimes .
Do ye see this dent , sir "-- removing his hat , and brushing aside his hair , and exposing a bowl - like cavity in his skull , but which bore not the slightest scarry trace , or any token of ever having been a wound --" Well , the captain there will tell you how that came here ; he knows ."
" No , I don ' t ," said the captain , " but his mother did ; he was born with it .
Oh , you solemn rogue , you -- you Bunger !
was there ever such another Bunger in the watery world ?
Bunger , when you die , you ought to die in pickle , you dog ; you should be preserved to future ages , you rascal ."
" What became of the White Whale ?"
now cried Ahab , who thus far had been impatiently listening to this by - play between the two Englishmen .
" Oh !"
cried the one - armed captain , " oh , yes !
Well ; after he sounded , we didn ' t see him again for some time ; in fact , as I before hinted , I didn ' t then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick , till some time afterwards , when coming back to the Line , we heard about Moby Dick -- as some call him -- and then I knew it was he ."
" Did ' st thou cross his wake again ?"
" Twice ."
" But could not fasten ?"
" Didn ' t want to try to : ain ' t one limb enough ?
What should I do without this other arm ?
And I ' m thinking Moby Dick doesn ' t bite so much as he swallows ."
" Well , then ," interrupted Bunger , " give him your left arm for bait to get the right .
Do you know , gentlemen "-- very gravely and mathematically bowing to each Captain in succession --" Do you know , gentlemen , that the digestive organs of the whale are so inscrutably constructed by Divine Providence , that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest even a man ' s arm ?
And he knows it too .
So that what you take for the White Whale ' s malice is only his awkwardness .
For he never means to swallow a single limb ; he only thinks to terrify by feints .
But sometimes he is like the old juggling fellow , formerly a patient of mine in Ceylon , that making believe swallow jack - knives , once upon a time let one drop into him in good earnest , and there it stayed for a twelvemonth or more ; when I gave him an emetic , and he heaved it up in small tacks , d ' ye see .
No possible way for him to digest that jack - knife , and fully incorporate it into his general bodily system .
Yes , Captain Boomer , if you are quick enough about it , and have a mind to pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of giving decent burial to the other , why in that case the arm is yours ; only let the whale have another chance at you shortly , that ' s all ."
" No , thank ye , Bunger ," said the English Captain , " he ' s welcome to the arm he has , since I can ' t help it , and didn ' t know him then ; but not to another one .
No more White Whales for me ; I ' ve lowered for him once , and that has satisfied me .
There would be great glory in killing him , I know that ; and there is a ship - load of precious sperm in him , but , hark ye , he ' s best let alone ; don ' t you think so , Captain ?"
-- glancing at the ivory leg .
" He is .
But he will still be hunted , for all that .
What is best let alone , that accursed thing is not always what least allures .
He ' s all a magnet !
How long since thou saw ' st him last ?
Which way heading ?"
" Bless my soul , and curse the foul fiend ' s ," cried Bunger , stoopingly walking round Ahab , and like a dog , strangely snuffing ; " this man ' s blood -- bring the thermometer !-- it ' s at the boiling point !-- his pulse makes these planks beat !-- sir !"
-- taking a lancet from his pocket , and drawing near to Ahab ' s arm .
" Avast !"
roared Ahab , dashing him against the bulwarks --" Man the boat !
Which way heading ?"
" Good God !"
cried the English Captain , to whom the question was put .
" What ' s the matter ?
He was heading east , I think .-- Is your Captain crazy ?"
whispering Fedallah .
But Fedallah , putting a finger on his lip , slid over the bulwarks to take the boat ' s steering oar , and Ahab , swinging the cutting - tackle towards him , commanded the ship ' s sailors to stand by to lower .
In a moment he was standing in the boat ' s stern , and the Manilla men were springing to their oars .
In vain the English Captain hailed him .
With back to the stranger ship , and face set like a flint to his own , Ahab stood upright till alongside of the Pequod .
CHAPTER 101
The Decanter .
Ere the English ship fades from sight , be it set down here , that she hailed from London , and was named after the late Samuel Enderby , merchant of that city , the original of the famous whaling house of Enderby & Sons ; a house which in my poor whaleman ' s opinion , comes not far behind the united royal houses of the Tudors and Bourbons , in point of real historical interest .
How long , prior to the year of our Lord 1775 , this great whaling house was in existence , my numerous fish - documents do not make plain ; but in that year ( 1775 ) it fitted out the first English ships that ever regularly hunted the Sperm Whale ; though for some score of years previous ( ever since 1726 ) our valiant Coffins and Maceys of Nantucket and the Vineyard had in large fleets pursued that Leviathan , but only in the North and South Atlantic : not elsewhere .
Be it distinctly recorded here , that the Nantucketers were the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel the great Sperm Whale ; and that for half a century they were the only people of the whole globe who so harpooned him .
In 1778 , a fine ship , the Amelia , fitted out for the express purpose , and at the sole charge of the vigorous Enderbys , boldly rounded Cape Horn , and was the first among the nations to lower a whale - boat of any sort in the great South Sea .
The voyage was a skilful and lucky one ; and returning to her berth with her hold full of the precious sperm , the Amelia ' s example was soon followed by other ships , English and American , and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the Pacific were thrown open .
But not content with this good deed , the indefatigable house again bestirred itself : Samuel and all his Sons -- how many , their mother only knows -- and under their immediate auspices , and partly , I think , at their expense , the British government was induced to send the sloop - of - war Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South Sea .
Commanded by a naval Post - Captain , the Rattler made a rattling voyage of it , and did some service ; how much does not appear .
But this is not all .
In 1819 , the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own , to go on a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan .
That ship -- well called the " Syren "-- made a noble experimental cruise ; and it was thus that the great Japanese Whaling Ground first became generally known .
The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a Captain Coffin , a Nantucketer .
All honour to the Enderbies , therefore , whose house , I think , exists to the present day ; though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago have slipped his cable for the great South Sea of the other world .
The ship named after him was worthy of the honour , being a very fast sailer and a noble craft every way .
I boarded her once at midnight somewhere off the Patagonian coast , and drank good flip down in the forecastle .
It was a fine gam we had , and they were all trumps -- every soul on board .
A short life to them , and a jolly death .
And that fine gam I had -- long , very long after old Ahab touched her planks with his ivory heel -- it minds me of the noble , solid , Saxon hospitality of that ship ; and may my parson forget me , and the devil remember me , if I ever lose sight of it .
Flip ?
Did I say we had flip ?
Yes , and we flipped it at the rate of ten gallons the hour ; and when the squall came ( for it ' s squally off there by Patagonia ), and all hands -- visitors and all -- were called to reef topsails , we were so top - heavy that we had to swing each other aloft in bowlines ; and we ignorantly furled the skirts of our jackets into the sails , so that we hung there , reefed fast in the howling gale , a warning example to all drunken tars .
However , the masts did not go overboard ; and by and by we scrambled down , so sober , that we had to pass the flip again , though the savage salt spray bursting down the forecastle scuttle , rather too much diluted and pickled it to my taste .
The beef was fine -- tough , but with body in it .
They said it was bull - beef ; others , that it was dromedary beef ; but I do not know , for certain , how that was .
They had dumplings too ; small , but substantial , symmetrically globular , and indestructible dumplings .
I fancied that you could feel them , and roll them about in you after they were swallowed .
If you stooped over too far forward , you risked their pitching out of you like billiard - balls .
The bread -- but that couldn ' t be helped ; besides , it was an anti - scorbutic ; in short , the bread contained the only fresh fare they had .
But the forecastle was not very light , and it was very easy to step over into a dark corner when you ate it .
But all in all , taking her from truck to helm , considering the dimensions of the cook ' s boilers , including his own live parchment boilers ; fore and aft , I say , the Samuel Enderby was a jolly ship ; of good fare and plenty ; fine flip and strong ; crack fellows all , and capital from boot heels to hat - band .
But why was it , think ye , that the Samuel Enderby , and some other English whalers I know of -- not all though -- were such famous , hospitable ships ; that passed round the beef , and the bread , and the can , and the joke ; and were not soon weary of eating , and drinking , and laughing ?
I will tell you .
The abounding good cheer of these English whalers is matter for historical research .
Nor have I been at all sparing of historical whale research , when it has seemed needed .
The English were preceded in the whale fishery by the Hollanders , Zealanders , and Danes ; from whom they derived many terms still extant in the fishery ; and what is yet more , their fat old fashions , touching plenty to eat and drink .
For , as a general thing , the English merchant - ship scrimps her crew ; but not so the English whaler .
Hence , in the English , this thing of whaling good cheer is not normal and natural , but incidental and particular ; and , therefore , must have some special origin , which is here pointed out , and will be still further elucidated .
During my researches in the Leviathanic histories , I stumbled upon an ancient Dutch volume , which , by the musty whaling smell of it , I knew must be about whalers .
The title was , " Dan Coopman ," wherefore I concluded that this must be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam cooper in the fishery , as every whale ship must carry its cooper .
I was reinforced in this opinion by seeing that it was the production of one " Fitz Swackhammer ."
But my friend Dr . Snodhead , a very learned man , professor of Low Dutch and High German in the college of Santa Claus and St . Pott ' s , to whom I handed the work for translation , giving him a box of sperm candles for his trouble -- this same Dr . Snodhead , so soon as he spied the book , assured me that " Dan Coopman " did not mean " The Cooper ," but " The Merchant ."
In short , this ancient and learned Low Dutch book treated of the commerce of Holland ; and , among other subjects , contained a very interesting account of its whale fishery .
And in this chapter it was , headed , " Smeer ," or " Fat ," that I found a long detailed list of the outfits for the larders and cellars of 180 sail of Dutch whalemen ; from which list , as translated by Dr . Snodhead , I transcribe the following :
400 , 000 lbs .
of beef .
60 , 000 lbs .
Friesland pork .
150 , 000 lbs .
of stock fish .
550 , 000 lbs .
of biscuit .
72 , 000 lbs .
of soft bread .
2 , 800 firkins of butter .
20 , 000 lbs .
Texel & Leyden cheese .
144 , 000 lbs .
cheese ( probably an inferior article ).
550 ankers of Geneva .
10 , 800 barrels of beer .
Most statistical tables are parchingly dry in the reading ; not so in the present case , however , where the reader is flooded with whole pipes , barrels , quarts , and gills of good gin and good cheer .
At the time , I devoted three days to the studious digesting of all this beer , beef , and bread , during which many profound thoughts were incidentally suggested to me , capable of a transcendental and Platonic application ; and , furthermore , I compiled supplementary tables of my own , touching the probable quantity of stock - fish , etc ., consumed by every Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and Spitzbergen whale fishery .
In the first place , the amount of butter , and Texel and Leyden cheese consumed , seems amazing .
I impute it , though , to their naturally unctuous natures , being rendered still more unctuous by the nature of their vocation , and especially by their pursuing their game in those frigid Polar Seas , on the very coasts of that Esquimaux country where the convivial natives pledge each other in bumpers of train oil .
The quantity of beer , too , is very large , 10 , 800 barrels .
Now , as those polar fisheries could only be prosecuted in the short summer of that climate , so that the whole cruise of one of these Dutch whalemen , including the short voyage to and from the Spitzbergen sea , did not much exceed three months , say , and reckoning 30 men to each of their fleet of 180 sail , we have 5 , 400 Low Dutch seamen in all ; therefore , I say , we have precisely two barrels of beer per man , for a twelve weeks ' allowance , exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 ankers of gin .
Now , whether these gin and beer harpooneers , so fuddled as one might fancy them to have been , were the right sort of men to stand up in a boat ' s head , and take good aim at flying whales ; this would seem somewhat improbable .
Yet they did aim at them , and hit them too .
But this was very far North , be it remembered , where beer agrees well with the constitution ; upon the Equator , in our southern fishery , beer would be apt to make the harpooneer sleepy at the mast - head and boozy in his boat ; and grievous loss might ensue to Nantucket and New Bedford .
But no more ; enough has been said to show that the old Dutch whalers of two or three centuries ago were high livers ; and that the English whalers have not neglected so excellent an example .
For , say they , when cruising in an empty ship , if you can get nothing better out of the world , get a good dinner out of it , at least .
And this empties the decanter .
CHAPTER 102
A Bower in the Arsacides .
Hitherto , in descriptively treating of the Sperm Whale , I have chiefly dwelt upon the marvels of his outer aspect ; or separately and in detail upon some few interior structural features .
But to a large and thorough sweeping comprehension of him , it behooves me now to unbutton him still further , and untagging the points of his hose , unbuckling his garters , and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of the joints of his innermost bones , set him before you in his ultimatum ; that is to say , in his unconditional skeleton .
But how now , Ishmael ?
How is it , that you , a mere oarsman in the fishery , pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the whale ?
Did erudite Stubb , mounted upon your capstan , deliver lectures on the anatomy of the Cetacea ; and by help of the windlass , hold up a specimen rib for exhibition ?
Explain thyself , Ishmael .
Can you land a full - grown whale on your deck for examination , as a cook dishes a roast - pig ?
Surely not .
A veritable witness have you hitherto been , Ishmael ; but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone ; the privilege of discoursing upon the joists and beams ; the rafters , ridge - pole , sleepers , and under - pinnings , making up the frame - work of leviathan ; and belike of the tallow - vats , dairy - rooms , butteries , and cheeseries in his bowels .
I confess , that since Jonah , few whalemen have penetrated very far beneath the skin of the adult whale ; nevertheless , I have been blessed with an opportunity to dissect him in miniature .
In a ship I belonged to , a small cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his poke or bag , to make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons , and for the heads of the lances .
Think you I let that chance go , without using my boat - hatchet and jack - knife , and breaking the seal and reading all the contents of that young cub ?
And as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their gigantic , full grown development , for that rare knowledge I am indebted to my late royal friend Tranquo , king of Tranque , one of the Arsacides .
For being at Tranque , years ago , when attached to the trading - ship Dey of Algiers , I was invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays with the lord of Tranque , at his retired palm villa at Pupella ; a sea - side glen not very far distant from what our sailors called Bamboo - Town , his capital .
Among many other fine qualities , my royal friend Tranquo , being gifted with a devout love for all matters of barbaric vertu , had brought together in Pupella whatever rare things the more ingenious of his people could invent ; chiefly carved woods of wonderful devices , chiselled shells , inlaid spears , costly paddles , aromatic canoes ; and all these distributed among whatever natural wonders , the wonder - freighted , tribute - rendering waves had cast upon his shores .
Chief among these latter was a great Sperm Whale , which , after an unusually long raging gale , had been found dead and stranded , with his head against a cocoa - nut tree , whose plumage - like , tufted droopings seemed his verdant jet .
When the vast body had at last been stripped of its fathom - deep enfoldings , and the bones become dust dry in the sun , then the skeleton was carefully transported up the Pupella glen , where a grand temple of lordly palms now sheltered it .
The ribs were hung with trophies ; the vertebrae were carved with Arsacidean annals , in strange hieroglyphics ; in the skull , the priests kept up an unextinguished aromatic flame , so that the mystic head again sent forth its vapoury spout ; while , suspended from a bough , the terrific lower jaw vibrated over all the devotees , like the hair - hung sword that so affrighted Damocles .
It was a wondrous sight .
The wood was green as mosses of the Icy Glen ; the trees stood high and haughty , feeling their living sap ; the industrious earth beneath was as a weaver ' s loom , with a gorgeous carpet on it , whereof the ground - vine tendrils formed the warp and woof , and the living flowers the figures .
All the trees , with all their laden branches ; all the shrubs , and ferns , and grasses ; the message - carrying air ; all these unceasingly were active .
Through the lacings of the leaves , the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the unwearied verdure .
Oh , busy weaver !
unseen weaver !-- pause !-- one word !-- whither flows the fabric ?
what palace may it deck ?
wherefore all these ceaseless toilings ?
Speak , weaver !-- stay thy hand !-- but one single word with thee !
Nay -- the shuttle flies -- the figures float from forth the loom ; the freshet - rushing carpet for ever slides away .
The weaver - god , he weaves ; and by that weaving is he deafened , that he hears no mortal voice ; and by that humming , we , too , who look on the loom are deafened ; and only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that speak through it .
For even so it is in all material factories .
The spoken words that are inaudible among the flying spindles ; those same words are plainly heard without the walls , bursting from the opened casements .
Thereby have villainies been detected .
Ah , mortal !
then , be heedful ; for so , in all this din of the great world ' s loom , thy subtlest thinkings may be overheard afar .
Now , amid the green , life - restless loom of that Arsacidean wood , the great , white , worshipped skeleton lay lounging -- a gigantic idler !
Yet , as the ever - woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around him , the mighty idler seemed the cunning weaver ; himself all woven over with the vines ; every month assuming greener , fresher verdure ; but himself a skeleton .
Life folded Death ; Death trellised Life ; the grim god wived with youthful Life , and begat him curly - headed glories .
Now , when with royal Tranquo I visited this wondrous whale , and saw the skull an altar , and the artificial smoke ascending from where the real jet had issued , I marvelled that the king should regard a chapel as an object of vertu .
He laughed .
But more I marvelled that the priests should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine .
To and fro I paced before this skeleton -- brushed the vines aside -- broke through the ribs -- and with a ball of Arsacidean twine , wandered , eddied long amid its many winding , shaded colonnades and arbours .
But soon my line was out ; and following it back , I emerged from the opening where I entered .
I saw no living thing within ; naught was there but bones .
Cutting me a green measuring - rod , I once more dived within the skeleton .
From their arrow - slit in the skull , the priests perceived me taking the altitude of the final rib , " How now !"
they shouted ; " Dar ' st thou measure this our god !
That ' s for us ."
" Aye , priests -- well , how long do ye make him , then ?"
But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them , concerning feet and inches ; they cracked each other ' s sconces with their yard - sticks -- the great skull echoed -- and seizing that lucky chance , I quickly concluded my own admeasurements .
These admeasurements I now propose to set before you .
But first , be it recorded , that , in this matter , I am not free to utter any fancied measurement I please .
Because there are skeleton authorities you can refer to , to test my accuracy .
There is a Leviathanic Museum , they tell me , in Hull , England , one of the whaling ports of that country , where they have some fine specimens of fin - backs and other whales .
Likewise , I have heard that in the museum of Manchester , in New Hampshire , they have what the proprietors call " the only perfect specimen of a Greenland or River Whale in the United States ."
Moreover , at a place in Yorkshire , England , Burton Constable by name , a certain Sir Clifford Constable has in his possession the skeleton of a Sperm Whale , but of moderate size , by no means of the full - grown magnitude of my friend King Tranquo ' s .
In both cases , the stranded whales to which these two skeletons belonged , were originally claimed by their proprietors upon similar grounds .
King Tranquo seizing his because he wanted it ; and Sir Clifford , because he was lord of the seignories of those parts .
Sir Clifford ' s whale has been articulated throughout ; so that , like a great chest of drawers , you can open and shut him , in all his bony cavities -- spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan -- and swing all day upon his lower jaw .
Locks are to be put upon some of his trap - doors and shutters ; and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of keys at his side .
Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep at the whispering gallery in the spinal column ; threepence to hear the echo in the hollow of his cerebellum ; and sixpence for the unrivalled view from his forehead .
The skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are copied verbatim from my right arm , where I had them tattooed ; as in my wild wanderings at that period , there was no other secure way of preserving such valuable statistics .
But as I was crowded for space , and wished the other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was then composing -- at least , what untattooed parts might remain -- I did not trouble myself with the odd inches ; nor , indeed , should inches at all enter into a congenial admeasurement of the whale .
CHAPTER 103
Measurement of The Whale ' s Skeleton .
In the first place , I wish to lay before you a particular , plain statement , touching the living bulk of this leviathan , whose skeleton we are briefly to exhibit .
Such a statement may prove useful here .
According to a careful calculation I have made , and which I partly base upon Captain Scoresby ' s estimate , of seventy tons for the largest sized Greenland whale of sixty feet in length ; according to my careful calculation , I say , a Sperm Whale of the largest magnitude , between eighty - five and ninety feet in length , and something less than forty feet in its fullest circumference , such a whale will weigh at least ninety tons ; so that , reckoning thirteen men to a ton , he would considerably outweigh the combined population of a whole village of one thousand one hundred inhabitants .
Think you not then that brains , like yoked cattle , should be put to this leviathan , to make him at all budge to any landsman ' s imagination ?
Having already in various ways put before you his skull , spout - hole , jaw , teeth , tail , forehead , fins , and divers other parts , I shall now simply point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of his unobstructed bones .
But as the colossal skull embraces so very large a proportion of the entire extent of the skeleton ; as it is by far the most complicated part ; and as nothing is to be repeated concerning it in this chapter , you must not fail to carry it in your mind , or under your arm , as we proceed , otherwise you will not gain a complete notion of the general structure we are about to view .
In length , the Sperm Whale ' s skeleton at Tranque measured seventy - two Feet ; so that when fully invested and extended in life , he must have been ninety feet long ; for in the whale , the skeleton loses about one fifth in length compared with the living body .
Of this seventy - two feet , his skull and jaw comprised some twenty feet , leaving some fifty feet of plain back - bone .
Attached to this back - bone , for something less than a third of its length , was the mighty circular basket of ribs which once enclosed his vitals .
To me this vast ivory - ribbed chest , with the long , unrelieved spine , extending far away from it in a straight line , not a little resembled the hull of a great ship new - laid upon the stocks , when only some twenty of her naked bow - ribs are inserted , and the keel is otherwise , for the time , but a long , disconnected timber .
The ribs were ten on a side .
The first , to begin from the neck , was nearly six feet long ; the second , third , and fourth were each successively longer , till you came to the climax of the fifth , or one of the middle ribs , which measured eight feet and some inches .
From that part , the remaining ribs diminished , till the tenth and last only spanned five feet and some inches .
In general thickness , they all bore a seemly correspondence to their length .
The middle ribs were the most arched .
In some of the Arsacides they are used for beams whereon to lay footpath bridges over small streams .
In considering these ribs , I could not but be struck anew with the circumstance , so variously repeated in this book , that the skeleton of the whale is by no means the mould of his invested form .
The largest of the Tranque ribs , one of the middle ones , occupied that part of the fish which , in life , is greatest in depth .
Now , the greatest depth of the invested body of this particular whale must have been at least sixteen feet ; whereas , the corresponding rib measured but little more than eight feet .
So that this rib only conveyed half of the true notion of the living magnitude of that part .
Besides , for some way , where I now saw but a naked spine , all that had been once wrapped round with tons of added bulk in flesh , muscle , blood , and bowels .
Still more , for the ample fins , I here saw but a few disordered joints ; and in place of the weighty and majestic , but boneless flukes , an utter blank !
How vain and foolish , then , thought I , for timid untravelled man to try to comprehend aright this wondrous whale , by merely poring over his dead attenuated skeleton , stretched in this peaceful wood .
No .
Only in the heart of quickest perils ; only when within the eddyings of his angry flukes ; only on the profound unbounded sea , can the fully invested whale be truly and livingly found out .
But the spine .
For that , the best way we can consider it is , with a crane , to pile its bones high up on end .
No speedy enterprise .
But now it ' s done , it looks much like Pompey ' s Pillar .
There are forty and odd vertebrae in all , which in the skeleton are not locked together .
They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on a Gothic spire , forming solid courses of heavy masonry .
The largest , a middle one , is in width something less than three feet , and in depth more than four .
The smallest , where the spine tapers away into the tail , is only two inches in width , and looks something like a white billiard - ball .
I was told that there were still smaller ones , but they had been lost by some little cannibal urchins , the priest ' s children , who had stolen them to play marbles with .
Thus we see how that the spine of even the hugest of living things tapers off at last into simple child ' s play .
CHAPTER 104
The Fossil Whale .
From his mighty bulk the whale affords a most congenial theme whereon to enlarge , amplify , and generally expatiate .
Would you , you could not compress him .
By good rights he should only be treated of in imperial folio .
Not to tell over again his furlongs from spiracle to tail , and the yards he measures about the waist ; only think of the gigantic involutions of his intestines , where they lie in him like great cables and hawsers coiled away in the subterranean orlop - deck of a line - of - battle - ship .
Since I have undertaken to manhandle this Leviathan , it behooves me to approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the enterprise ; not overlooking the minutest seminal germs of his blood , and spinning him out to the uttermost coil of his bowels .
Having already described him in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities , it now remains to magnify him in an archaeological , fossiliferous , and antediluvian point of view .
Applied to any other creature than the Leviathan -- to an ant or a flea -- such portly terms might justly be deemed unwarrantably grandiloquent .
But when Leviathan is the text , the case is altered .
Fain am I to stagger to this emprise under the weightiest words of the dictionary .
And here be it said , that whenever it has been convenient to consult one in the course of these dissertations , I have invariably used a huge quarto edition of Johnson , expressly purchased for that purpose ; because that famous lexicographer ' s uncommon personal bulk more fitted him to compile a lexicon to be used by a whale author like me .
One often hears of writers that rise and swell with their subject , though it may seem but an ordinary one .
How , then , with me , writing of this Leviathan ?
Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard capitals .
Give me a condor ' s quill !
Give me Vesuvius ' crater for an inkstand !
Friends , hold my arms !
For in the mere act of penning my thoughts of this Leviathan , they weary me , and make me faint with their outreaching comprehensiveness of sweep , as if to include the whole circle of the sciences , and all the generations of whales , and men , and mastodons , past , present , and to come , with all the revolving panoramas of empire on earth , and throughout the whole universe , not excluding its suburbs .
Such , and so magnifying , is the virtue of a large and liberal theme !
We expand to its bulk .
To produce a mighty book , you must choose a mighty theme .
No great and enduring volume can ever be written on the flea , though many there be who have tried it .
Ere entering upon the subject of Fossil Whales , I present my credentials as a geologist , by stating that in my miscellaneous time I have been a stone - mason , and also a great digger of ditches , canals and wells , wine - vaults , cellars , and cisterns of all sorts .
Likewise , by way of preliminary , I desire to remind the reader , that while in the earlier geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now almost completely extinct ; the subsequent relics discovered in what are called the Tertiary formations seem the connecting , or at any rate intercepted links , between the antichronical creatures , and those whose remote posterity are said to have entered the Ark ; all the Fossil Whales hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period , which is the last preceding the superficial formations .
And though none of them precisely answer to any known species of the present time , they are yet sufficiently akin to them in general respects , to justify their taking rank as Cetacean fossils .
Detached broken fossils of pre - adamite whales , fragments of their bones and skeletons , have within thirty years past , at various intervals , been found at the base of the Alps , in Lombardy , in France , in England , in Scotland , and in the States of Louisiana , Mississippi , and Alabama .
Among the more curious of such remains is part of a skull , which in the year 1779 was disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris , a short street opening almost directly upon the palace of the Tuileries ; and bones disinterred in excavating the great docks of Antwerp , in Napoleon ' s time .
Cuvier pronounced these fragments to have belonged to some utterly unknown Leviathanic species .
But by far the most wonderful of all Cetacean relics was the almost complete vast skeleton of an extinct monster , found in the year 1842 , on the plantation of Judge Creagh , in Alabama .
The awe - stricken credulous slaves in the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen angels .
The Alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile , and bestowed upon it the name of Basilosaurus .
But some specimen bones of it being taken across the sea to Owen , the English Anatomist , it turned out that this alleged reptile was a whale , though of a departed species .
A significant illustration of the fact , again and again repeated in this book , that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the shape of his fully invested body .
So Owen rechristened the monster Zeuglodon ; and in his paper read before the London Geological Society , pronounced it , in substance , one of the most extraordinary creatures which the mutations of the globe have blotted out of existence .
When I stand among these mighty Leviathan skeletons , skulls , tusks , jaws , ribs , and vertebrae , all characterized by partial resemblances to the existing breeds of sea - monsters ; but at the same time bearing on the other hand similar affinities to the annihilated antichronical Leviathans , their incalculable seniors ; I am , by a flood , borne back to that wondrous period , ere time itself can be said to have begun ; for time began with man .
Here Saturn ' s grey chaos rolls over me , and I obtain dim , shuddering glimpses into those Polar eternities ; when wedged bastions of ice pressed hard upon what are now the Tropics ; and in all the 25 , 000 miles of this world ' s circumference , not an inhabitable hand ' s breadth of land was visible .
Then the whole world was the whale ' s ; and , king of creation , he left his wake along the present lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs .
Who can show a pedigree like Leviathan ?
Ahab ' s harpoon had shed older blood than the Pharaoh ' s .
Methuselah seems a school - boy .
I look round to shake hands with Shem .
I am horror - struck at this antemosaic , unsourced existence of the unspeakable terrors of the whale , which , having been before all time , must needs exist after all humane ages are over .
But not alone has this Leviathan left his pre - adamite traces in the stereotype plates of nature , and in limestone and marl bequeathed his ancient bust ; but upon Egyptian tablets , whose antiquity seems to claim for them an almost fossiliferous character , we find the unmistakable print of his fin .
In an apartment of the great temple of Denderah , some fifty years ago , there was discovered upon the granite ceiling a sculptured and painted planisphere , abounding in centaurs , griffins , and dolphins , similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial globe of the moderns .
Gliding among them , old Leviathan swam as of yore ; was there swimming in that planisphere , centuries before Solomon was cradled .
Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity of the whale , in his own osseous post - diluvian reality , as set down by the venerable John Leo , the old Barbary traveller .
" Not far from the Sea - side , they have a Temple , the Rafters and Beams of which are made of Whale - Bones ; for Whales of a monstrous size are oftentimes cast up dead upon that shore .
The Common People imagine , that by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the temple , no Whale can pass it without immediate death .
But the truth of the Matter is , that on either side of the Temple , there are Rocks that shoot two Miles into the Sea , and wound the Whales when they light upon ' em .
They keep a Whale ' s Rib of an incredible length for a Miracle , which lying upon the Ground with its convex part uppermost , makes an Arch , the Head of which cannot be reached by a Man upon a Camel ' s Back .
This Rib ( says John Leo ) is said to have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it .
Their Historians affirm , that a Prophet who prophesy ' d of Mahomet , came from this Temple , and some do not stand to assert , that the Prophet Jonas was cast forth by the Whale at the Base of the Temple ."
In this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you , reader , and if you be a Nantucketer , and a whaleman , you will silently worship there .
CHAPTER 105
Does the Whale ' s Magnitude Diminish ?-- Will He Perish ?
Inasmuch , then , as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us from the head - waters of the Eternities , it may be fitly inquired , whether , in the long course of his generations , he has not degenerated from the original bulk of his sires .
But upon investigation we find , that not only are the whales of the present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are found in the Tertiary system ( embracing a distinct geological period prior to man ), but of the whales found in that Tertiary system , those belonging to its latter formations exceed in size those of its earlier ones .
Of all the pre - adamite whales yet exhumed , by far the largest is the Alabama one mentioned in the last chapter , and that was less than seventy feet in length in the skeleton .
Whereas , we have already seen , that the tape - measure gives seventy - two feet for the skeleton of a large sized modern whale .
And I have heard , on whalemen ' s authority , that Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at the time of capture .
But may it not be , that while the whales of the present hour are an advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods ; may it not be , that since Adam ' s time they have degenerated ?
Assuredly , we must conclude so , if we are to credit the accounts of such gentlemen as Pliny , and the ancient naturalists generally .
For Pliny tells us of Whales that embraced acres of living bulk , and Aldrovandus of others which measured eight hundred feet in length -- Rope Walks and Thames Tunnels of Whales !
And even in the days of Banks and Solander , Cooke ' s naturalists , we find a Danish member of the Academy of Sciences setting down certain Iceland Whales ( reydan - siskur , or Wrinkled Bellies ) at one hundred and twenty yards ; that is , three hundred and sixty feet .
And Lacepede , the French naturalist , in his elaborate history of whales , in the very beginning of his work ( page 3 ), sets down the Right Whale at one hundred metres , three hundred and twenty - eight feet .
And this work was published so late as A . D . 1825 .
But will any whaleman believe these stories ?
No .
The whale of to - day is as big as his ancestors in Pliny ' s time .
And if ever I go where Pliny is , I , a whaleman ( more than he was ), will make bold to tell him so .
Because I cannot understand how it is , that while the Egyptian mummies that were buried thousands of years before even Pliny was born , do not measure so much in their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks ; and while the cattle and other animals sculptured on the oldest Egyptian and Nineveh tablets , by the relative proportions in which they are drawn , just as plainly prove that the high - bred , stall - fed , prize cattle of Smithfield , not only equal , but far exceed in magnitude the fattest of Pharaoh ' s fat kine ; in the face of all this , I will not admit that of all animals the whale alone should have degenerated .
But still another inquiry remains ; one often agitated by the more recondite Nantucketers .
Whether owing to the almost omniscient look - outs at the mast - heads of the whaleships , now penetrating even through Behring ' s straits , and into the remotest secret drawers and lockers of the world ; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along all continental coasts ; the moot point is , whether Leviathan can long endure so wide a chase , and so remorseless a havoc ; whether he must not at last be exterminated from the waters , and the last whale , like the last man , smoke his last pipe , and then himself evaporate in the final puff .
Comparing the humped herds of whales with the humped herds of buffalo , which , not forty years ago , overspread by tens of thousands the prairies of Illinois and Missouri , and shook their iron manes and scowled with their thunder - clotted brows upon the sites of populous river - capitals , where now the polite broker sells you land at a dollar an inch ; in such a comparison an irresistible argument would seem furnished , to show that the hunted whale cannot now escape speedy extinction .
But you must look at this matter in every light .
Though so short a period ago -- not a good lifetime -- the census of the buffalo in Illinois exceeded the census of men now in London , and though at the present day not one horn or hoof of them remains in all that region ; and though the cause of this wondrous extermination was the spear of man ; yet the far different nature of the whale - hunt peremptorily forbids so inglorious an end to the Leviathan .
Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whales for forty - eight months think they have done extremely well , and thank God , if at last they carry home the oil of forty fish .
Whereas , in the days of the old Canadian and Indian hunters and trappers of the West , when the far west ( in whose sunset suns still rise ) was a wilderness and a virgin , the same number of moccasined men , for the same number of months , mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships , would have slain not forty , but forty thousand and more buffaloes ; a fact that , if need were , could be statistically stated .
Nor , considered aright , does it seem any argument in favour of the gradual extinction of the Sperm Whale , for example , that in former years ( the latter part of the last century , say ) these Leviathans , in small pods , were encountered much oftener than at present , and , in consequence , the voyages were not so prolonged , and were also much more remunerative .
Because , as has been elsewhere noticed , those whales , influenced by some views to safety , now swim the seas in immense caravans , so that to a large degree the scattered solitaries , yokes , and pods , and schools of other days are now aggregated into vast but widely separated , unfrequent armies .
That is all .
And equally fallacious seems the conceit , that because the so - called whale - bone whales no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding with them , hence that species also is declining .
For they are only being driven from promontory to cape ; and if one coast is no longer enlivened with their jets , then , be sure , some other and remoter strand has been very recently startled by the unfamiliar spectacle .
Furthermore : concerning these last mentioned Leviathans , they have two firm fortresses , which , in all human probability , will for ever remain impregnable .
And as upon the invasion of their valleys , the frosty Swiss have retreated to their mountains ; so , hunted from the savannas and glades of the middle seas , the whale - bone whales can at last resort to their Polar citadels , and diving under the ultimate glassy barriers and walls there , come up among icy fields and floes ; and in a charmed circle of everlasting December , bid defiance to all pursuit from man .
But as perhaps fifty of these whale - bone whales are harpooned for one cachalot , some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions .
But though for some time past a number of these whales , not less than 13 , 000 , have been annually slain on the nor '- west coast by the Americans alone ; yet there are considerations which render even this circumstance of little or no account as an opposing argument in this matter .
Natural as it is to be somewhat incredulous concerning the populousness of the more enormous creatures of the globe , yet what shall we say to Harto , the historian of Goa , when he tells us that at one hunting the King of Siam took 4 , 000 elephants ; that in those regions elephants are numerous as droves of cattle in the temperate climes .
And there seems no reason to doubt that if these elephants , which have now been hunted for thousands of years , by Semiramis , by Porus , by Hannibal , and by all the successive monarchs of the East -- if they still survive there in great numbers , much more may the great whale outlast all hunting , since he has a pasture to expatiate in , which is precisely twice as large as all Asia , both Americas , Europe and Africa , New Holland , and all the Isles of the sea combined .
Moreover : we are to consider , that from the presumed great longevity of whales , their probably attaining the age of a century and more , therefore at any one period of time , several distinct adult generations must be contemporary .
And what that is , we may soon gain some idea of , by imagining all the grave - yards , cemeteries , and family vaults of creation yielding up the live bodies of all the men , women , and children who were alive seventy - five years ago ; and adding this countless host to the present human population of the globe .
Wherefore , for all these things , we account the whale immortal in his species , however perishable in his individuality .
He swam the seas before the continents broke water ; he once swam over the site of the Tuileries , and Windsor Castle , and the Kremlin .
In Noah ' s flood he despised Noah ' s Ark ; and if ever the world is to be again flooded , like the Netherlands , to kill off its rats , then the eternal whale will still survive , and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorial flood , spout his frothed defiance to the skies .
CHAPTER 106
Ahab ' s Leg .
The precipitating manner in which Captain Ahab had quitted the Samuel Enderby of London , had not been unattended with some small violence to his own person .
He had lighted with such energy upon a thwart of his boat that his ivory leg had received a half - splintering shock .
And when after gaining his own deck , and his own pivot - hole there , he so vehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman ( it was , as ever , something about his not steering inflexibly enough ); then , the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and wrench , that though it still remained entire , and to all appearances lusty , yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy .
And , indeed , it seemed small matter for wonder , that for all his pervading , mad recklessness , Ahab did at times give careful heed to the condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood .
For it had not been very long prior to the Pequod ' s sailing from Nantucket , that he had been found one night lying prone upon the ground , and insensible ; by some unknown , and seemingly inexplicable , unimaginable casualty , his ivory limb having been so violently displaced , that it had stake - wise smitten , and all but pierced his groin ; nor was it without extreme difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely cured .
Nor , at the time , had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind , that all the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of a former woe ; and he too plainly seemed to see , that as the most poisonous reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as the sweetest songster of the grove ; so , equally with every felicity , all miserable events do naturally beget their like .
Yea , more than equally , thought Ahab ; since both the ancestry and posterity of Grief go further than the ancestry and posterity of Joy .
For , not to hint of this : that it is an inference from certain canonic teachings , that while some natural enjoyments here shall have no children born to them for the other world , but , on the contrary , shall be followed by the joy - childlessness of all hell ' s despair ; whereas , some guilty mortal miseries shall still fertilely beget to themselves an eternally progressive progeny of griefs beyond the grave ; not at all to hint of this , there still seems an inequality in the deeper analysis of the thing .
For , thought Ahab , while even the highest earthly felicities ever have a certain unsignifying pettiness lurking in them , but , at bottom , all heartwoes , a mystic significance , and , in some men , an archangelic grandeur ; so do their diligent tracings - out not belie the obvious deduction .
To trail the genealogies of these high mortal miseries , carries us at last among the sourceless primogenitures of the gods ; so that , in the face of all the glad , hay - making suns , and soft cymballing , round harvest - moons , we must needs give in to this : that the gods themselves are not for ever glad .
The ineffaceable , sad birth - mark in the brow of man , is but the stamp of sorrow in the signers .
Unwittingly here a secret has been divulged , which perhaps might more properly , in set way , have been disclosed before .
With many other particulars concerning Ahab , always had it remained a mystery to some , why it was , that for a certain period , both before and after the sailing of the Pequod , he had hidden himself away with such Grand - Lama - like exclusiveness ; and , for that one interval , sought speechless refuge , as it were , among the marble senate of the dead .
Captain Peleg ' s bruited reason for this thing appeared by no means adequate ; though , indeed , as touching all Ahab ' s deeper part , every revelation partook more of significant darkness than of explanatory light .
But , in the end , it all came out ; this one matter did , at least .
That direful mishap was at the bottom of his temporary recluseness .
And not only this , but to that ever - contracting , dropping circle ashore , who , for any reason , possessed the privilege of a less banned approach to him ; to that timid circle the above hinted casualty -- remaining , as it did , moodily unaccounted for by Ahab -- invested itself with terrors , not entirely underived from the land of spirits and of wails .
So that , through their zeal for him , they had all conspired , so far as in them lay , to muffle up the knowledge of this thing from others ; and hence it was , that not till a considerable interval had elapsed , did it transpire upon the Pequod ' s decks .
But be all this as it may ; let the unseen , ambiguous synod in the air , or the vindictive princes and potentates of fire , have to do or not with earthly Ahab , yet , in this present matter of his leg , he took plain practical procedures ;-- he called the carpenter .
And when that functionary appeared before him , he bade him without delay set about making a new leg , and directed the mates to see him supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw - ivory ( Sperm Whale ) which had thus far been accumulated on the voyage , in order that a careful selection of the stoutest , clearest - grained stuff might be secured .
This done , the carpenter received orders to have the leg completed that night ; and to provide all the fittings for it , independent of those pertaining to the distrusted one in use .
Moreover , the ship ' s forge was ordered to be hoisted out of its temporary idleness in the hold ; and , to accelerate the affair , the blacksmith was commanded to proceed at once to the forging of whatever iron contrivances might be needed .
CHAPTER 107
The Carpenter .
Seat thyself sultanically among the moons of Saturn , and take high abstracted man alone ; and he seems a wonder , a grandeur , and a woe .
But from the same point , take mankind in mass , and for the most part , they seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates , both contemporary and hereditary .
But most humble though he was , and far from furnishing an example of the high , humane abstraction ; the Pequod ' s carpenter was no duplicate ; hence , he now comes in person on this stage .
Like all sea - going ship carpenters , and more especially those belonging to whaling vessels , he was , to a certain off - handed , practical extent , alike experienced in numerous trades and callings collateral to his own ; the carpenter ' s pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk of all those numerous handicrafts which more or less have to do with wood as an auxiliary material .
But , besides the application to him of the generic remark above , this carpenter of the Pequod was singularly efficient in those thousand nameless mechanical emergencies continually recurring in a large ship , upon a three or four years ' voyage , in uncivilized and far - distant seas .
For not to speak of his readiness in ordinary duties :-- repairing stove boats , sprung spars , reforming the shape of clumsy - bladed oars , inserting bull ' s eyes in the deck , or new tree - nails in the side planks , and other miscellaneous matters more directly pertaining to his special business ; he was moreover unhesitatingly expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes , both useful and capricious .
The one grand stage where he enacted all his various parts so manifold , was his vice - bench ; a long rude ponderous table furnished with several vices , of different sizes , and both of iron and of wood .
At all times except when whales were alongside , this bench was securely lashed athwartships against the rear of the Try - works .
A belaying pin is found too large to be easily inserted into its hole : the carpenter claps it into one of his ever - ready vices , and straightway files it smaller .
A lost land - bird of strange plumage strays on board , and is made a captive : out of clean shaved rods of right - whale bone , and cross - beams of sperm whale ivory , the carpenter makes a pagoda - looking cage for it .
An oarsman sprains his wrist : the carpenter concocts a soothing lotion .
Stubb longed for vermillion stars to be painted upon the blade of his every oar ; screwing each oar in his big vice of wood , the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation .
A sailor takes a fancy to wear shark - bone ear - rings : the carpenter drills his ears .
Another has the toothache : the carpenter out pincers , and clapping one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there ; but the poor fellow unmanageably winces under the unconcluded operation ; whirling round the handle of his wooden vice , the carpenter signs him to clap his jaw in that , if he would have him draw the tooth .
Thus , this carpenter was prepared at all points , and alike indifferent and without respect in all .
Teeth he accounted bits of ivory ; heads he deemed but top - blocks ; men themselves he lightly held for capstans .
But while now upon so wide a field thus variously accomplished and with such liveliness of expertness in him , too ; all this would seem to argue some uncommon vivacity of intelligence .
But not precisely so .
For nothing was this man more remarkable , than for a certain impersonal stolidity as it were ; impersonal , I say ; for it so shaded off into the surrounding infinite of things , that it seemed one with the general stolidity discernible in the whole visible world ; which while pauselessly active in uncounted modes , still eternally holds its peace , and ignores you , though you dig foundations for cathedrals .
Yet was this half - horrible stolidity in him , involving , too , as it appeared , an all - ramifying heartlessness ;-- yet was it oddly dashed at times , with an old , crutch - like , antediluvian , wheezing humorousness , not unstreaked now and then with a certain grizzled wittiness ; such as might have served to pass the time during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle of Noah ' s ark .
Was it that this old carpenter had been a life - long wanderer , whose much rolling , to and fro , not only had gathered no moss ; but what is more , had rubbed off whatever small outward clingings might have originally pertained to him ?
He was a stript abstract ; an unfractioned integral ; uncompromised as a new - born babe ; living without premeditated reference to this world or the next .
You might almost say , that this strange uncompromisedness in him involved a sort of unintelligence ; for in his numerous trades , he did not seem to work so much by reason or by instinct , or simply because he had been tutored to it , or by any intermixture of all these , even or uneven ; but merely by a kind of deaf and dumb , spontaneous literal process .
He was a pure manipulator ; his brain , if he had ever had one , must have early oozed along into the muscles of his fingers .
He was like one of those unreasoning but still highly useful , MULTUM IN PARVO , Sheffield contrivances , assuming the exterior -- though a little swelled -- of a common pocket knife ; but containing , not only blades of various sizes , but also screw - drivers , cork - screws , tweezers , awls , pens , rulers , nail - filers , countersinkers .
So , if his superiors wanted to use the carpenter for a screw - driver , all they had to do was to open that part of him , and the screw was fast : or if for tweezers , take him up by the legs , and there they were .
Yet , as previously hinted , this omnitooled , open - and - shut carpenter , was , after all , no mere machine of an automaton .
If he did not have a common soul in him , he had a subtle something that somehow anomalously did its duty .
What that was , whether essence of quicksilver , or a few drops of hartshorn , there is no telling .
But there it was ; and there it had abided for now some sixty years or more .
And this it was , this same unaccountable , cunning life - principle in him ; this it was , that kept him a great part of the time soliloquizing ; but only like an unreasoning wheel , which also hummingly soliloquizes ; or rather , his body was a sentry - box and this soliloquizer on guard there , and talking all the time to keep himself awake .
CHAPTER 108
Ahab and the Carpenter .
The Deck -- First Night Watch .
( CARPENTER STANDING BEFORE HIS VICE - BENCH , AND BY THE LIGHT OF TWO LANTERNS BUSILY FILING THE IVORY JOIST FOR THE LEG , WHICH JOIST IS FIRMLY FIXED IN THE VICE .
SLABS OF IVORY , LEATHER STRAPS , PADS , SCREWS , AND VARIOUS TOOLS OF ALL SORTS LYING ABOUT THE BENCH .
FORWARD , THE RED FLAME OF THE FORGE IS SEEN , WHERE THE BLACKSMITH IS AT WORK .)
Drat the file , and drat the bone !
That is hard which should be soft , and that is soft which should be hard .
So we go , who file old jaws and shinbones .
Let ' s try another .
Aye , now , this works better ( SNEEZES ).
Halloa , this bone dust is ( SNEEZES )-- why it ' s ( SNEEZES )-- yes it ' s ( SNEEZES )-- bless my soul , it won ' t let me speak !
This is what an old fellow gets now for working in dead lumber .
Saw a live tree , and you don ' t get this dust ; amputate a live bone , and you don ' t get it ( SNEEZES ).
Come , come , you old Smut , there , bear a hand , and let ' s have that ferule and buckle - screw ; I ' ll be ready for them presently .
Lucky now ( SNEEZES ) there ' s no knee - joint to make ; that might puzzle a little ; but a mere shinbone -- why it ' s easy as making hop - poles ; only I should like to put a good finish on .
Time , time ; if I but only had the time , I could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever ( SNEEZES ) scraped to a lady in a parlor .
Those buckskin legs and calves of legs I ' ve seen in shop windows wouldn ' t compare at all .
They soak water , they do ; and of course get rheumatic , and have to be doctored ( SNEEZES ) with washes and lotions , just like live legs .
There ; before I saw it off , now , I must call his old Mogulship , and see whether the length will be all right ; too short , if anything , I guess .
Ha !
that ' s the heel ; we are in luck ; here he comes , or it ' s somebody else , that ' s certain .
AHAB ( ADVANCING )
( DURING THE ENSUING SCENE , THE CARPENTER CONTINUES SNEEZING AT TIMES )
Well , manmaker !
Just in time , sir .
If the captain pleases , I will now mark the length .
Let me measure , sir .
Measured for a leg !
good .
Well , it ' s not the first time .
About it !
There ; keep thy finger on it .
This is a cogent vice thou hast here , carpenter ; let me feel its grip once .
So , so ; it does pinch some .
Oh , sir , it will break bones -- beware , beware !
No fear ; I like a good grip ; I like to feel something in this slippery world that can hold , man .
What ' s Prometheus about there ?-- the blacksmith , I mean -- what ' s he about ?
He must be forging the buckle - screw , sir , now .
Right .
It ' s a partnership ; he supplies the muscle part .
He makes a fierce red flame there !
Aye , sir ; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work .
Um - m .
So he must .
I do deem it now a most meaning thing , that that old Greek , Prometheus , who made men , they say , should have been a blacksmith , and animated them with fire ; for what ' s made in fire must properly belong to fire ; and so hell ' s probable .
How the soot flies !
This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of .
Carpenter , when he ' s through with that buckle , tell him to forge a pair of steel shoulder - blades ; there ' s a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack .
Sir ?
Hold ; while Prometheus is about it , I ' ll order a complete man after a desirable pattern .
Imprimis , fifty feet high in his socks ; then , chest modelled after the Thames Tunnel ; then , legs with roots to ' em , to stay in one place ; then , arms three feet through the wrist ; no heart at all , brass forehead , and about a quarter of an acre of fine brains ; and let me see -- shall I order eyes to see outwards ?
No , but put a sky - light on top of his head to illuminate inwards .
There , take the order , and away .
Now , what ' s he speaking about , and who ' s he speaking to , I should like to know ?
Shall I keep standing here ?
( ASIDE ).
' Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome ; here ' s one .
No , no , no ; I must have a lantern .
Ho , ho !
That ' s it , hey ?
Here are two , sir ; one will serve my turn .
What art thou thrusting that thief - catcher into my face for , man ?
Thrusted light is worse than presented pistols .
I thought , sir , that you spoke to carpenter .
Carpenter ?
why that ' s -- but no ;-- a very tidy , and , I may say , an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here , carpenter ;-- or would ' st thou rather work in clay ?
Sir ?-- Clay ?
clay , sir ?
That ' s mud ; we leave clay to ditchers , sir .
The fellow ' s impious !
What art thou sneezing about ?
Bone is rather dusty , sir .
Take the hint , then ; and when thou art dead , never bury thyself under living people ' s noses .
Sir ?-- oh !
ah !-- I guess so ;-- yes -- dear !
Look ye , carpenter , I dare say thou callest thyself a right good workmanlike workman , eh ?
Well , then , will it speak thoroughly well for thy work , if , when I come to mount this leg thou makest , I shall nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical place with it ; that is , carpenter , my old lost leg ; the flesh and blood one , I mean .
Canst thou not drive that old Adam away ?
Truly , sir , I begin to understand somewhat now .
Yes , I have heard something curious on that score , sir ; how that a dismasted man never entirely loses the feeling of his old spar , but it will be still pricking him at times .
May I humbly ask if it be really so , sir ?
It is , man .
Look , put thy live leg here in the place where mine once was ; so , now , here is only one distinct leg to the eye , yet two to the soul .
Where thou feelest tingling life ; there , exactly there , there to a hair , do I .
Is ' t a riddle ?
I should humbly call it a poser , sir .
Hist , then .
How dost thou know that some entire , living , thinking thing may not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where thou now standest ; aye , and standing there in thy spite ?
In thy most solitary hours , then , dost thou not fear eavesdroppers ?
Hold , don ' t speak !
And if I still feel the smart of my crushed leg , though it be now so long dissolved ; then , why mayst not thou , carpenter , feel the fiery pains of hell for ever , and without a body ?
Hah !
Good Lord !
Truly , sir , if it comes to that , I must calculate over again ; I think I didn ' t carry a small figure , sir .
Look ye , pudding - heads should never grant premises .-- How long before the leg is done ?
Perhaps an hour , sir .
Bungle away at it then , and bring it to me ( TURNS TO GO ).
Oh , Life !
Here I am , proud as Greek god , and yet standing debtor to this blockhead for a bone to stand on !
Cursed be that mortal inter - indebtedness which will not do away with ledgers .
I would be free as air ; and I ' m down in the whole world ' s books .
I am so rich , I could have given bid for bid with the wealthiest Praetorians at the auction of the Roman empire ( which was the world ' s ); and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongue I brag with .
By heavens !
I ' ll get a crucible , and into it , and dissolve myself down to one small , compendious vertebra .
So .
CARPENTER ( RESUMING HIS WORK ).
Well , well , well !
Stubb knows him best of all , and Stubb always says he ' s queer ; says nothing but that one sufficient little word queer ; he ' s queer , says Stubb ; he ' s queer -- queer , queer ; and keeps dinning it into Mr . Starbuck all the time -- queer -- sir -- queer , queer , very queer .
And here ' s his leg !
Yes , now that I think of it , here ' s his bedfellow !
has a stick of whale ' s jaw - bone for a wife !
And this is his leg ; he ' ll stand on this .
What was that now about one leg standing in three places , and all three places standing in one hell -- how was that ?
Oh !
I don ' t wonder he looked so scornful at me !
I ' m a sort of strange - thoughted sometimes , they say ; but that ' s only haphazard - like .
Then , a short , little old body like me , should never undertake to wade out into deep waters with tall , heron - built captains ; the water chucks you under the chin pretty quick , and there ' s a great cry for life - boats .
And here ' s the heron ' s leg !
long and slim , sure enough !
Now , for most folks one pair of legs lasts a lifetime , and that must be because they use them mercifully , as a tender - hearted old lady uses her roly - poly old coach - horses .
But Ahab ; oh he ' s a hard driver .
Look , driven one leg to death , and spavined the other for life , and now wears out bone legs by the cord .
Halloa , there , you Smut !
bear a hand there with those screws , and let ' s finish it before the resurrection fellow comes a - calling with his horn for all legs , true or false , as brewery - men go round collecting old beer barrels , to fill ' em up again .
What a leg this is !
It looks like a real live leg , filed down to nothing but the core ; he ' ll be standing on this to - morrow ; he ' ll be taking altitudes on it .
Halloa !
I almost forgot the little oval slate , smoothed ivory , where he figures up the latitude .
So , so ; chisel , file , and sand - paper , now !
CHAPTER 109
Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin .
According to usage they were pumping the ship next morning ; and lo !
no inconsiderable oil came up with the water ; the casks below must have sprung a bad leak .
Much concern was shown ; and Starbuck went down into the cabin to report this unfavourable affair .
*
* In Sperm - whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board , it is a regular semiweekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold , and drench the casks with sea - water ; which afterwards , at varying intervals , is removed by the ship ' s pumps .
Hereby the casks are sought to be kept damply tight ; while by the changed character of the withdrawn water , the mariners readily detect any serious leakage in the precious cargo .
Now , from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and the Bashee Isles , between which lies one of the tropical outlets from the China waters into the Pacific .
And so Starbuck found Ahab with a general chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him ; and another separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the Japanese islands -- Niphon , Matsmai , and Sikoke .
With his snow - white new ivory leg braced against the screwed leg of his table , and with a long pruning - hook of a jack - knife in his hand , the wondrous old man , with his back to the gangway door , was wrinkling his brow , and tracing his old courses again .
" Who ' s there ?"
hearing the footstep at the door , but not turning round to it .
" On deck !
Begone !"
" Captain Ahab mistakes ; it is I .
The oil in the hold is leaking , sir .
We must up Burtons and break out ."
" Up Burtons and break out ?
Now that we are nearing Japan ; heave - to here for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops ?"
" Either do that , sir , or waste in one day more oil than we may make good in a year .
What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth saving , sir ."
" So it is , so it is ; if we get it ."
" I was speaking of the oil in the hold , sir ."
" And I was not speaking or thinking of that at all .
Begone !
Let it leak !
I ' m all aleak myself .
Aye !
leaks in leaks !
not only full of leaky casks , but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship ; and that ' s a far worse plight than the Pequod ' s , man .
Yet I don ' t stop to plug my leak ; for who can find it in the deep - loaded hull ; or how hope to plug it , even if found , in this life ' s howling gale ?
Starbuck !
I ' ll not have the Burtons hoisted ."
" What will the owners say , sir ?"
" Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and outyell the Typhoons .
What cares Ahab ?
Owners , owners ?
Thou art always prating to me , Starbuck , about those miserly owners , as if the owners were my conscience .
But look ye , the only real owner of anything is its commander ; and hark ye , my conscience is in this ship ' s keel .-- On deck !"
" Captain Ahab ," said the reddening mate , moving further into the cabin , with a daring so strangely respectful and cautious that it almost seemed not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward manifestation of itself , but within also seemed more than half distrustful of itself ; " A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would quickly enough resent in a younger man ; aye , and in a happier , Captain Ahab ."
" Devils !
Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me ?-- On deck !"
" Nay , sir , not yet ; I do entreat .
And I do dare , sir -- to be forbearing !
Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto , Captain Ahab ?"
Ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack ( forming part of most South - Sea - men ' s cabin furniture ), and pointing it towards Starbuck , exclaimed : " There is one God that is Lord over the earth , and one Captain that is lord over the Pequod .-- On deck !"
For an instant in the flashing eyes of the mate , and his fiery cheeks , you would have almost thought that he had really received the blaze of the levelled tube .
But , mastering his emotion , he half calmly rose , and as he quitted the cabin , paused for an instant and said : " Thou hast outraged , not insulted me , sir ; but for that I ask thee not to beware of Starbuck ; thou wouldst but laugh ; but let Ahab beware of Ahab ; beware of thyself , old man ."
" He waxes brave , but nevertheless obeys ; most careful bravery that !"
murmured Ahab , as Starbuck disappeared .
" What ' s that he said -- Ahab beware of Ahab -- there ' s something there !"
Then unconsciously using the musket for a staff , with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the little cabin ; but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed , and returning the gun to the rack , he went to the deck .
" Thou art but too good a fellow , Starbuck ," he said lowly to the mate ; then raising his voice to the crew : " Furl the t ' gallant - sails , and close - reef the top - sails , fore and aft ; back the main - yard ; up Burton , and break out in the main - hold ."
It were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was , that as respecting Starbuck , Ahab thus acted .
It may have been a flash of honesty in him ; or mere prudential policy which , under the circumstance , imperiously forbade the slightest symptom of open disaffection , however transient , in the important chief officer of his ship .
However it was , his orders were executed ; and the Burtons were hoisted .
CHAPTER 110
Queequeg in His Coffin .
Upon searching , it was found that the casks last struck into the hold were perfectly sound , and that the leak must be further off .
So , it being calm weather , they broke out deeper and deeper , disturbing the slumbers of the huge ground - tier butts ; and from that black midnight sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above .
So deep did they go ; and so ancient , and corroded , and weedy the aspect of the lowermost puncheons , that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner - stone cask containing coins of Captain Noah , with copies of the posted placards , vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood .
Tierce after tierce , too , of water , and bread , and beef , and shooks of staves , and iron bundles of hoops , were hoisted out , till at last the piled decks were hard to get about ; and the hollow hull echoed under foot , as if you were treading over empty catacombs , and reeled and rolled in the sea like an air - freighted demijohn .
Top - heavy was the ship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle in his head .
Well was it that the Typhoons did not visit them then .
Now , at this time it was that my poor pagan companion , and fast bosom - friend , Queequeg , was seized with a fever , which brought him nigh to his endless end .
Be it said , that in this vocation of whaling , sinecures are unknown ; dignity and danger go hand in hand ; till you get to be Captain , the higher you rise the harder you toil .
So with poor Queequeg , who , as harpooneer , must not only face all the rage of the living whale , but -- as we have elsewhere seen -- mount his dead back in a rolling sea ; and finally descend into the gloom of the hold , and bitterly sweating all day in that subterraneous confinement , resolutely manhandle the clumsiest casks and see to their stowage .
To be short , among whalemen , the harpooneers are the holders , so called .
Poor Queequeg !
when the ship was about half disembowelled , you should have stooped over the hatchway , and peered down upon him there ; where , stripped to his woollen drawers , the tattooed savage was crawling about amid that dampness and slime , like a green spotted lizard at the bottom of a well .
And a well , or an ice - house , it somehow proved to him , poor pagan ; where , strange to say , for all the heat of his sweatings , he caught a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever ; and at last , after some days ' suffering , laid him in his hammock , close to the very sill of the door of death .
How he wasted and wasted away in those few long - lingering days , till there seemed but little left of him but his frame and tattooing .
But as all else in him thinned , and his cheek - bones grew sharper , his eyes , nevertheless , seemed growing fuller and fuller ; they became of a strange softness of lustre ; and mildly but deeply looked out at you there from his sickness , a wondrous testimony to that immortal health in him which could not die , or be weakened .
And like circles on the water , which , as they grow fainter , expand ; so his eyes seemed rounding and rounding , like the rings of Eternity .
An awe that cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the side of this waning savage , and saw as strange things in his face , as any beheld who were bystanders when Zoroaster died .
For whatever is truly wondrous and fearful in man , never yet was put into words or books .
And the drawing near of Death , which alike levels all , alike impresses all with a last revelation , which only an author from the dead could adequately tell .
So that -- let us say it again -- no dying Chaldee or Greek had higher and holier thoughts than those , whose mysterious shades you saw creeping over the face of poor Queequeg , as he quietly lay in his swaying hammock , and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his final rest , and the ocean ' s invisible flood - tide lifted him higher and higher towards his destined heaven .
Not a man of the crew but gave him up ; and , as for Queequeg himself , what he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favour he asked .
He called one to him in the grey morning watch , when the day was just breaking , and taking his hand , said that while in Nantucket he had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood , like the rich war - wood of his native isle ; and upon inquiry , he had learned that all whalemen who died in Nantucket , were laid in those same dark canoes , and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him ; for it was not unlike the custom of his own race , who , after embalming a dead warrior , stretched him out in his canoe , and so left him to be floated away to the starry archipelagoes ; for not only do they believe that the stars are isles , but that far beyond all visible horizons , their own mild , uncontinented seas , interflow with the blue heavens ; and so form the white breakers of the milky way .
He added , that he shuddered at the thought of being buried in his hammock , according to the usual sea - custom , tossed like something vile to the death - devouring sharks .
No : he desired a canoe like those of Nantucket , all the more congenial to him , being a whaleman , that like a whale - boat these coffin - canoes were without a keel ; though that involved but uncertain steering , and much lee - way adown the dim ages .
Now , when this strange circumstance was made known aft , the carpenter was at once commanded to do Queequeg ' s bidding , whatever it might include .
There was some heathenish , coffin - coloured old lumber aboard , which , upon a long previous voyage , had been cut from the aboriginal groves of the Lackaday islands , and from these dark planks the coffin was recommended to be made .
No sooner was the carpenter apprised of the order , than taking his rule , he forthwith with all the indifferent promptitude of his character , proceeded into the forecastle and took Queequeg ' s measure with great accuracy , regularly chalking Queequeg ' s person as he shifted the rule .
" Ah !
poor fellow !
he ' ll have to die now ," ejaculated the Long Island sailor .
Going to his vice - bench , the carpenter for convenience sake and general reference , now transferringly measured on it the exact length the coffin was to be , and then made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches at its extremities .
This done , he marshalled the planks and his tools , and to work .
When the last nail was driven , and the lid duly planed and fitted , he lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it , inquiring whether they were ready for it yet in that direction .
Overhearing the indignant but half - humorous cries with which the people on deck began to drive the coffin away , Queequeg , to every one ' s consternation , commanded that the thing should be instantly brought to him , nor was there any denying him ; seeing that , of all mortals , some dying men are the most tyrannical ; and certainly , since they will shortly trouble us so little for evermore , the poor fellows ought to be indulged .
Leaning over in his hammock , Queequeg long regarded the coffin with an attentive eye .
He then called for his harpoon , had the wooden stock drawn from it , and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along with one of the paddles of his boat .
All by his own request , also , biscuits were then ranged round the sides within : a flask of fresh water was placed at the head , and a small bag of woody earth scraped up in the hold at the foot ; and a piece of sail - cloth being rolled up for a pillow , Queequeg now entreated to be lifted into his final bed , that he might make trial of its comforts , if any it had .
He lay without moving a few minutes , then told one to go to his bag and bring out his little god , Yojo .
Then crossing his arms on his breast with Yojo between , he called for the coffin lid ( hatch he called it ) to be placed over him .
The head part turned over with a leather hinge , and there lay Queequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in view .
" Rarmai " ( it will do ; it is easy ), he murmured at last , and signed to be replaced in his hammock .
But ere this was done , Pip , who had been slily hovering near by all this while , drew nigh to him where he lay , and with soft sobbings , took him by the hand ; in the other , holding his tambourine .
" Poor rover !
will ye never have done with all this weary roving ?
where go ye now ?
But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where the beaches are only beat with water - lilies , will ye do one little errand for me ?
Seek out one Pip , who ' s now been missing long : I think he ' s in those far Antilles .
If ye find him , then comfort him ; for he must be very sad ; for look !
he ' s left his tambourine behind ;-- I found it .
Rig - a - dig , dig , dig !
Now , Queequeg , die ; and I ' ll beat ye your dying march ."
" I have heard ," murmured Starbuck , gazing down the scuttle , " that in violent fevers , men , all ignorance , have talked in ancient tongues ; and that when the mystery is probed , it turns out always that in their wholly forgotten childhood those ancient tongues had been really spoken in their hearing by some lofty scholars .
So , to my fond faith , poor Pip , in this strange sweetness of his lunacy , brings heavenly vouchers of all our heavenly homes .
Where learned he that , but there ?-- Hark !
he speaks again : but more wildly now ."
" Form two and two !
Let ' s make a General of him !
Ho , where ' s his harpoon ?
Lay it across here .-- Rig - a - dig , dig , dig !
huzza !
Oh for a game cock now to sit upon his head and crow !
Queequeg dies game !-- mind ye that ; Queequeg dies game !-- take ye good heed of that ; Queequeg dies game !
I say ; game , game , game !
but base little Pip , he died a coward ; died all a ' shiver ;-- out upon Pip !
Hark ye ; if ye find Pip , tell all the Antilles he ' s a runaway ; a coward , a coward , a coward !
Tell them he jumped from a whale - boat !
I ' d never beat my tambourine over base Pip , and hail him General , if he were once more dying here .
No , no !
shame upon all cowards -- shame upon them !
Let ' em go drown like Pip , that jumped from a whale - boat .
Shame !
shame !"
During all this , Queequeg lay with closed eyes , as if in a dream .
Pip was led away , and the sick man was replaced in his hammock .
But now that he had apparently made every preparation for death ; now that his coffin was proved a good fit , Queequeg suddenly rallied ; soon there seemed no need of the carpenter ' s box : and thereupon , when some expressed their delighted surprise , he , in substance , said , that the cause of his sudden convalescence was this ;-- at a critical moment , he had just recalled a little duty ashore , which he was leaving undone ; and therefore had changed his mind about dying : he could not die yet , he averred .
They asked him , then , whether to live or die was a matter of his own sovereign will and pleasure .
He answered , certainly .
In a word , it was Queequeg ' s conceit , that if a man made up his mind to live , mere sickness could not kill him : nothing but a whale , or a gale , or some violent , ungovernable , unintelligent destroyer of that sort .
Now , there is this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized ; that while a sick , civilized man may be six months convalescing , generally speaking , a sick savage is almost half - well again in a day .
So , in good time my Queequeg gained strength ; and at length after sitting on the windlass for a few indolent days ( but eating with a vigorous appetite ) he suddenly leaped to his feet , threw out his arms and legs , gave himself a good stretching , yawned a little bit , and then springing into the head of his hoisted boat , and poising a harpoon , pronounced himself fit for a fight .
With a wild whimsiness , he now used his coffin for a sea - chest ; and emptying into it his canvas bag of clothes , set them in order there .
Many spare hours he spent , in carving the lid with all manner of grotesque figures and drawings ; and it seemed that hereby he was striving , in his rude way , to copy parts of the twisted tattooing on his body .
And this tattooing had been the work of a departed prophet and seer of his island , who , by those hieroglyphic marks , had written out on his body a complete theory of the heavens and the earth , and a mystical treatise on the art of attaining truth ; so that Queequeg in his own proper person was a riddle to unfold ; a wondrous work in one volume ; but whose mysteries not even himself could read , though his own live heart beat against them ; and these mysteries were therefore destined in the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon they were inscribed , and so be unsolved to the last .
And this thought it must have been which suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his , when one morning turning away from surveying poor Queequeg --" Oh , devilish tantalization of the gods !"
CHAPTER 111
The Pacific .
When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at last upon the great South Sea ; were it not for other things , I could have greeted my dear Pacific with uncounted thanks , for now the long supplication of my youth was answered ; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a thousand leagues of blue .
There is , one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea , whose gently awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath ; like those fabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried Evangelist St . John .
And meet it is , that over these sea - pastures , wide - rolling watery prairies and Potters ' Fields of all four continents , the waves should rise and fall , and ebb and flow unceasingly ; for here , millions of mixed shades and shadows , drowned dreams , somnambulisms , reveries ; all that we call lives and souls , lie dreaming , dreaming , still ; tossing like slumberers in their beds ; the ever - rolling waves but made so by their restlessness .
To any meditative Magian rover , this serene Pacific , once beheld , must ever after be the sea of his adoption .
It rolls the midmost waters of the world , the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms .
The same waves wash the moles of the new - built Californian towns , but yesterday planted by the recentest race of men , and lave the faded but still gorgeous skirts of Asiatic lands , older than Abraham ; while all between float milky - ways of coral isles , and low - lying , endless , unknown Archipelagoes , and impenetrable Japans .
Thus this mysterious , divine Pacific zones the world ' s whole bulk about ; makes all coasts one bay to it ; seems the tide - beating heart of earth .
Lifted by those eternal swells , you needs must own the seductive god , bowing your head to Pan .
But few thoughts of Pan stirred Ahab ' s brain , as standing like an iron statue at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging , with one nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the Bashee isles ( in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking ), and with the other consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea ; that sea in which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming .
Launched at length upon these almost final waters , and gliding towards the Japanese cruising - ground , the old man ' s purpose intensified itself .
His firm lips met like the lips of a vice ; the Delta of his forehead ' s veins swelled like overladen brooks ; in his very sleep , his ringing cry ran through the vaulted hull , " Stern all !
the White Whale spouts thick blood !"
CHAPTER 112
The Blacksmith .
Availing himself of the mild , summer - cool weather that now reigned in these latitudes , and in preparation for the peculiarly active pursuits shortly to be anticipated , Perth , the begrimed , blistered old blacksmith , had not removed his portable forge to the hold again , after concluding his contributory work for Ahab ' s leg , but still retained it on deck , fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast ; being now almost incessantly invoked by the headsmen , and harpooneers , and bowsmen to do some little job for them ; altering , or repairing , or new shaping their various weapons and boat furniture .
Often he would be surrounded by an eager circle , all waiting to be served ; holding boat - spades , pike - heads , harpoons , and lances , and jealously watching his every sooty movement , as he toiled .
Nevertheless , this old man ' s was a patient hammer wielded by a patient arm .
No murmur , no impatience , no petulance did come from him .
Silent , slow , and solemn ; bowing over still further his chronically broken back , he toiled away , as if toil were life itself , and the heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating of his heart .
And so it was .-- Most miserable !
A peculiar walk in this old man , a certain slight but painful appearing yawing in his gait , had at an early period of the voyage excited the curiosity of the mariners .
And to the importunity of their persisted questionings he had finally given in ; and so it came to pass that every one now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate .
Belated , and not innocently , one bitter winter ' s midnight , on the road running between two country towns , the blacksmith half - stupidly felt the deadly numbness stealing over him , and sought refuge in a leaning , dilapidated barn .
The issue was , the loss of the extremities of both feet .
Out of this revelation , part by part , at last came out the four acts of the gladness , and the one long , and as yet uncatastrophied fifth act of the grief of his life ' s drama .
He was an old man , who , at the age of nearly sixty , had postponedly encountered that thing in sorrow ' s technicals called ruin .
He had been an artisan of famed excellence , and with plenty to do ; owned a house and garden ; embraced a youthful , daughter - like , loving wife , and three blithe , ruddy children ; every Sunday went to a cheerful - looking church , planted in a grove .
But one night , under cover of darkness , and further concealed in a most cunning disguisement , a desperate burglar slid into his happy home , and robbed them all of everything .
And darker yet to tell , the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into his family ' s heart .
It was the Bottle Conjuror !
Upon the opening of that fatal cork , forth flew the fiend , and shrivelled up his home .
Now , for prudent , most wise , and economic reasons , the blacksmith ' s shop was in the basement of his dwelling , but with a separate entrance to it ; so that always had the young and loving healthy wife listened with no unhappy nervousness , but with vigorous pleasure , to the stout ringing of her young - armed old husband ' s hammer ; whose reverberations , muffled by passing through the floors and walls , came up to her , not unsweetly , in her nursery ; and so , to stout Labor ' s iron lullaby , the blacksmith ' s infants were rocked to slumber .
Oh , woe on woe !
Oh , Death , why canst thou not sometimes be timely ?
Hadst thou taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came upon him , then had the young widow had a delicious grief , and her orphans a truly venerable , legendary sire to dream of in their after years ; and all of them a care - killing competency .
But Death plucked down some virtuous elder brother , on whose whistling daily toil solely hung the responsibilities of some other family , and left the worse than useless old man standing , till the hideous rot of life should make him easier to harvest .
Why tell the whole ?
The blows of the basement hammer every day grew more and more between ; and each blow every day grew fainter than the last ; the wife sat frozen at the window , with tearless eyes , glitteringly gazing into the weeping faces of her children ; the bellows fell ; the forge choked up with cinders ; the house was sold ; the mother dived down into the long church - yard grass ; her children twice followed her thither ; and the houseless , familyless old man staggered off a vagabond in crape ; his every woe unreverenced ; his grey head a scorn to flaxen curls !
Death seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this ; but Death is only a launching into the region of the strange Untried ; it is but the first salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote , the Wild , the Watery , the Unshored ; therefore , to the death - longing eyes of such men , who still have left in them some interior compunctions against suicide , does the all - contributed and all - receptive ocean alluringly spread forth his whole plain of unimaginable , taking terrors , and wonderful , new - life adventures ; and from the hearts of infinite Pacifics , the thousand mermaids sing to them --" Come hither , broken - hearted ; here is another life without the guilt of intermediate death ; here are wonders supernatural , without dying for them .
Come hither !
bury thyself in a life which , to your now equally abhorred and abhorring , landed world , is more oblivious than death .
Come hither !
put up THY gravestone , too , within the churchyard , and come hither , till we marry thee !"
Hearkening to these voices , East and West , by early sunrise , and by fall of eve , the blacksmith ' s soul responded , Aye , I come !
And so Perth went a - whaling .
CHAPTER 113
The Forge .
With matted beard , and swathed in a bristling shark - skin apron , about mid - day , Perth was standing between his forge and anvil , the latter placed upon an iron - wood log , with one hand holding a pike - head in the coals , and with the other at his forge ' s lungs , when Captain Ahab came along , carrying in his hand a small rusty - looking leathern bag .
While yet a little distance from the forge , moody Ahab paused ; till at last , Perth , withdrawing his iron from the fire , began hammering it upon the anvil -- the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering flights , some of which flew close to Ahab .
" Are these thy Mother Carey ' s chickens , Perth ?
they are always flying in thy wake ; birds of good omen , too , but not to all ;-- look here , they burn ; but thou -- thou liv ' st among them without a scorch ."
" Because I am scorched all over , Captain Ahab ," answered Perth , resting for a moment on his hammer ; " I am past scorching ; not easily can ' st thou scorch a scar ."
" Well , well ; no more .
Thy shrunk voice sounds too calmly , sanely woeful to me .
In no Paradise myself , I am impatient of all misery in others that is not mad .
Thou should ' st go mad , blacksmith ; say , why dost thou not go mad ?
How can ' st thou endure without being mad ?
Do the heavens yet hate thee , that thou can ' st not go mad ?-- What wert thou making there ?"
" Welding an old pike - head , sir ; there were seams and dents in it ."
" And can ' st thou make it all smooth again , blacksmith , after such hard usage as it had ?"
" I think so , sir ."
" And I suppose thou can ' st smoothe almost any seams and dents ; never mind how hard the metal , blacksmith ?"
" Aye , sir , I think I can ; all seams and dents but one ."
" Look ye here , then ," cried Ahab , passionately advancing , and leaning with both hands on Perth ' s shoulders ; " look ye here -- HERE -- can ye smoothe out a seam like this , blacksmith ," sweeping one hand across his ribbed brow ; " if thou could ' st , blacksmith , glad enough would I lay my head upon thy anvil , and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes .
Answer !
Can ' st thou smoothe this seam ?"
" Oh !
that is the one , sir !
Said I not all seams and dents but one ?"
" Aye , blacksmith , it is the one ; aye , man , it is unsmoothable ; for though thou only see ' st it here in my flesh , it has worked down into the bone of my skull -- THAT is all wrinkles !
But , away with child ' s play ; no more gaffs and pikes to - day .
Look ye here !"
jingling the leathern bag , as if it were full of gold coins .
" I , too , want a harpoon made ; one that a thousand yoke of fiends could not part , Perth ; something that will stick in a whale like his own fin - bone .
There ' s the stuff ," flinging the pouch upon the anvil .
" Look ye , blacksmith , these are the gathered nail - stubbs of the steel shoes of racing horses ."
" Horse - shoe stubbs , sir ?
Why , Captain Ahab , thou hast here , then , the best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work ."
" I know it , old man ; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the melted bones of murderers .
Quick !
forge me the harpoon .
And forge me first , twelve rods for its shank ; then wind , and twist , and hammer these twelve together like the yarns and strands of a tow - line .
Quick !
I ' ll blow the fire ."
When at last the twelve rods were made , Ahab tried them , one by one , by spiralling them , with his own hand , round a long , heavy iron bolt .
" A flaw !"
rejecting the last one .
" Work that over again , Perth ."
This done , Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one , when Ahab stayed his hand , and said he would weld his own iron .
As , then , with regular , gasping hems , he hammered on the anvil , Perth passing to him the glowing rods , one after the other , and the hard pressed forge shooting up its intense straight flame , the Parsee passed silently , and bowing over his head towards the fire , seemed invoking some curse or some blessing on the toil .
But , as Ahab looked up , he slid aside .
" What ' s that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for ?"
muttered Stubb , looking on from the forecastle .
" That Parsee smells fire like a fusee ; and smells of it himself , like a hot musket ' s powder - pan ."
At last the shank , in one complete rod , received its final heat ; and as Perth , to temper it , plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near by , the scalding steam shot up into Ahab ' s bent face .
" Would ' st thou brand me , Perth ?"
wincing for a moment with the pain ; " have I been but forging my own branding - iron , then ?"
" Pray God , not that ; yet I fear something , Captain Ahab .
Is not this harpoon for the White Whale ?"
" For the white fiend !
But now for the barbs ; thou must make them thyself , man .
Here are my razors -- the best of steel ; here , and make the barbs sharp as the needle - sleet of the Icy Sea ."
For a moment , the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain not use them .
" Take them , man , I have no need for them ; for I now neither shave , sup , nor pray till -- but here -- to work !"
Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape , and welded by Perth to the shank , the steel soon pointed the end of the iron ; and as the blacksmith was about giving the barbs their final heat , prior to tempering them , he cried to Ahab to place the water - cask near .
" No , no -- no water for that ; I want it of the true death - temper .
Ahoy , there !
Tashtego , Queequeg , Daggoo !
What say ye , pagans !
Will ye give me as much blood as will cover this barb ?"
holding it high up .
A cluster of dark nods replied , Yes .
Three punctures were made in the heathen flesh , and the White Whale ' s barbs were then tempered .
" Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris , sed in nomine diaboli !"
deliriously howled Ahab , as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the baptismal blood .
Now , mustering the spare poles from below , and selecting one of hickory , with the bark still investing it , Ahab fitted the end to the socket of the iron .
A coil of new tow - line was then unwound , and some fathoms of it taken to the windlass , and stretched to a great tension .
Pressing his foot upon it , till the rope hummed like a harp - string , then eagerly bending over it , and seeing no strandings , Ahab exclaimed , " Good !
and now for the seizings ."
At one extremity the rope was unstranded , and the separate spread yarns were all braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon ; the pole was then driven hard up into the socket ; from the lower end the rope was traced half - way along the pole ' s length , and firmly secured so , with intertwistings of twine .
This done , pole , iron , and rope -- like the Three Fates -- remained inseparable , and Ahab moodily stalked away with the weapon ; the sound of his ivory leg , and the sound of the hickory pole , both hollowly ringing along every plank .
But ere he entered his cabin , light , unnatural , half - bantering , yet most piteous sound was heard .
Oh , Pip !
thy wretched laugh , thy idle but unresting eye ; all thy strange mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the black tragedy of the melancholy ship , and mocked it !
CHAPTER 114
The Gilder .
Penetrating further and further into the heart of the Japanese cruising ground , the Pequod was soon all astir in the fishery .
Often , in mild , pleasant weather , for twelve , fifteen , eighteen , and twenty hours on the stretch , they were engaged in the boats , steadily pulling , or sailing , or paddling after the whales , or for an interlude of sixty or seventy minutes calmly awaiting their uprising ; though with but small success for their pains .
At such times , under an abated sun ; afloat all day upon smooth , slow heaving swells ; seated in his boat , light as a birch canoe ; and so sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves , that like hearth - stone cats they purr against the gunwale ; these are the times of dreamy quietude , when beholding the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of the ocean ' s skin , one forgets the tiger heart that pants beneath it ; and would not willingly remember , that this velvet paw but conceals a remorseless fang .
These are the times , when in his whale - boat the rover softly feels a certain filial , confident , land - like feeling towards the sea ; that he regards it as so much flowery earth ; and the distant ship revealing only the tops of her masts , seems struggling forward , not through high rolling waves , but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie : as when the western emigrants ' horses only show their erected ears , while their hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure .
The long - drawn virgin vales ; the mild blue hill - sides ; as over these there steals the hush , the hum ; you almost swear that play - wearied children lie sleeping in these solitudes , in some glad May - time , when the flowers of the woods are plucked .
And all this mixes with your most mystic mood ; so that fact and fancy , half - way meeting , interpenetrate , and form one seamless whole .
Nor did such soothing scenes , however temporary , fail of at least as temporary an effect on Ahab .
But if these secret golden keys did seem to open in him his own secret golden treasuries , yet did his breath upon them prove but tarnishing .
Oh , grassy glades !
oh , ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul ; in ye ,-- though long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life ,-- in ye , men yet may roll , like young horses in new morning clover ; and for some few fleeting moments , feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them .
Would to God these blessed calms would last .
But the mingled , mingling threads of life are woven by warp and woof : calms crossed by storms , a storm for every calm .
There is no steady unretracing progress in this life ; we do not advance through fixed gradations , and at the last one pause :-- through infancy ' s unconscious spell , boyhood ' s thoughtless faith , adolescence ' doubt ( the common doom ), then scepticism , then disbelief , resting at last in manhood ' s pondering repose of If .
But once gone through , we trace the round again ; and are infants , boys , and men , and Ifs eternally .
Where lies the final harbor , whence we unmoor no more ?
In what rapt ether sails the world , of which the weariest will never weary ?
Where is the foundling ' s father hidden ?
Our souls are like those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them : the secret of our paternity lies in their grave , and we must there to learn it .
And that same day , too , gazing far down from his boat ' s side into that same golden sea , Starbuck lowly murmured :--
" Loveliness unfathomable , as ever lover saw in his young bride ' s eye !-- Tell me not of thy teeth - tiered sharks , and thy kidnapping cannibal ways .
Let faith oust fact ; let fancy oust memory ; I look deep down and do believe ."
And Stubb , fish - like , with sparkling scales , leaped up in that same golden light :--
" I am Stubb , and Stubb has his history ; but here Stubb takes oaths that he has always been jolly !"
CHAPTER 115
The Pequod Meets The Bachelor .
And jolly enough were the sights and the sounds that came bearing down before the wind , some few weeks after Ahab ' s harpoon had been welded .
It was a Nantucket ship , the Bachelor , which had just wedged in her last cask of oil , and bolted down her bursting hatches ; and now , in glad holiday apparel , was joyously , though somewhat vain - gloriously , sailing round among the widely - separated ships on the ground , previous to pointing her prow for home .
The three men at her mast - head wore long streamers of narrow red bunting at their hats ; from the stern , a whale - boat was suspended , bottom down ; and hanging captive from the bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the last whale they had slain .
Signals , ensigns , and jacks of all colours were flying from her rigging , on every side .
Sideways lashed in each of her three basketed tops were two barrels of sperm ; above which , in her top - mast cross - trees , you saw slender breakers of the same precious fluid ; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen lamp .
As was afterwards learned , the Bachelor had met with the most surprising success ; all the more wonderful , for that while cruising in the same seas numerous other vessels had gone entire months without securing a single fish .
Not only had barrels of beef and bread been given away to make room for the far more valuable sperm , but additional supplemental casks had been bartered for , from the ships she had met ; and these were stowed along the deck , and in the captain ' s and officers ' state - rooms .
Even the cabin table itself had been knocked into kindling - wood ; and the cabin mess dined off the broad head of an oil - butt , lashed down to the floor for a centrepiece .
In the forecastle , the sailors had actually caulked and pitched their chests , and filled them ; it was humorously added , that the cook had clapped a head on his largest boiler , and filled it ; that the steward had plugged his spare coffee - pot and filled it ; that the harpooneers had headed the sockets of their irons and filled them ; that indeed everything was filled with sperm , except the captain ' s pantaloons pockets , and those he reserved to thrust his hands into , in self - complacent testimony of his entire satisfaction .
As this glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod , the barbarian sound of enormous drums came from her forecastle ; and drawing still nearer , a crowd of her men were seen standing round her huge try - pots , which , covered with the parchment - like POKE or stomach skin of the black fish , gave forth a loud roar to every stroke of the clenched hands of the crew .
On the quarter - deck , the mates and harpooneers were dancing with the olive - hued girls who had eloped with them from the Polynesian Isles ; while suspended in an ornamented boat , firmly secured aloft between the foremast and mainmast , three Long Island negroes , with glittering fiddle - bows of whale ivory , were presiding over the hilarious jig .
Meanwhile , others of the ship ' s company were tumultuously busy at the masonry of the try - works , from which the huge pots had been removed .
You would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed Bastille , such wild cries they raised , as the now useless brick and mortar were being hurled into the sea .
Lord and master over all this scene , the captain stood erect on the ship ' s elevated quarter - deck , so that the whole rejoicing drama was full before him , and seemed merely contrived for his own individual diversion .
And Ahab , he too was standing on his quarter - deck , shaggy and black , with a stubborn gloom ; and as the two ships crossed each other ' s wakes -- one all jubilations for things passed , the other all forebodings as to things to come -- their two captains in themselves impersonated the whole striking contrast of the scene .
" Come aboard , come aboard !"
cried the gay Bachelor ' s commander , lifting a glass and a bottle in the air .
" Hast seen the White Whale ?"
gritted Ahab in reply .
" No ; only heard of him ; but don ' t believe in him at all ," said the other good - humoredly .
" Come aboard !"
" Thou art too damned jolly .
Sail on .
Hast lost any men ?"
" Not enough to speak of -- two islanders , that ' s all ;-- but come aboard , old hearty , come along .
I ' ll soon take that black from your brow .
Come along , will ye ( merry ' s the play ); a full ship and homeward - bound ."
" How wondrous familiar is a fool !"
muttered Ahab ; then aloud , " Thou art a full ship and homeward bound , thou sayst ; well , then , call me an empty ship , and outward - bound .
So go thy ways , and I will mine .
Forward there !
Set all sail , and keep her to the wind !"
And thus , while the one ship went cheerily before the breeze , the other stubbornly fought against it ; and so the two vessels parted ; the crew of the Pequod looking with grave , lingering glances towards the receding Bachelor ; but the Bachelor ' s men never heeding their gaze for the lively revelry they were in .
And as Ahab , leaning over the taffrail , eyed the homewardbound craft , he took from his pocket a small vial of sand , and then looking from the ship to the vial , seemed thereby bringing two remote associations together , for that vial was filled with Nantucket soundings .
CHAPTER 116
The Dying Whale .
Not seldom in this life , when , on the right side , fortune ' s favourites sail close by us , we , though all adroop before , catch somewhat of the rushing breeze , and joyfully feel our bagging sails fill out .
So seemed it with the Pequod .
For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor , whales were seen and four were slain ; and one of them by Ahab .
It was far down the afternoon ; and when all the spearings of the crimson fight were done : and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky , sun and whale both stilly died together ; then , such a sweetness and such plaintiveness , such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy air , that it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of the Manilla isles , the Spanish land - breeze , wantonly turned sailor , had gone to sea , freighted with these vesper hymns .
Soothed again , but only soothed to deeper gloom , Ahab , who had sterned off from the whale , sat intently watching his final wanings from the now tranquil boat .
For that strange spectacle observable in all sperm whales dying -- the turning sunwards of the head , and so expiring -- that strange spectacle , beheld of such a placid evening , somehow to Ahab conveyed a wondrousness unknown before .
" He turns and turns him to it ,-- how slowly , but how steadfastly , his homage - rendering and invoking brow , with his last dying motions .
He too worships fire ; most faithful , broad , baronial vassal of the sun !-- Oh that these too - favouring eyes should see these too - favouring sights .
Look !
here , far water - locked ; beyond all hum of human weal or woe ; in these most candid and impartial seas ; where to traditions no rocks furnish tablets ; where for long Chinese ages , the billows have still rolled on speechless and unspoken to , as stars that shine upon the Niger ' s unknown source ; here , too , life dies sunwards full of faith ; but see !
no sooner dead , than death whirls round the corpse , and it heads some other way .
" Oh , thou dark Hindoo half of nature , who of drowned bones hast builded thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these unverdured seas ; thou art an infidel , thou queen , and too truly speakest to me in the wide - slaughtering Typhoon , and the hushed burial of its after calm .
Nor has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head , and then gone round again , without a lesson to me .
" Oh , trebly hooped and welded hip of power !
Oh , high aspiring , rainbowed jet !-- that one strivest , this one jettest all in vain !
In vain , oh whale , dost thou seek intercedings with yon all - quickening sun , that only calls forth life , but gives it not again .
Yet dost thou , darker half , rock me with a prouder , if a darker faith .
All thy unnamable imminglings float beneath me here ; I am buoyed by breaths of once living things , exhaled as air , but water now .
" Then hail , for ever hail , O sea , in whose eternal tossings the wild fowl finds his only rest .
Born of earth , yet suckled by the sea ; though hill and valley mothered me , ye billows are my foster - brothers !"
CHAPTER 117
The Whale Watch .
The four whales slain that evening had died wide apart ; one , far to windward ; one , less distant , to leeward ; one ahead ; one astern .
These last three were brought alongside ere nightfall ; but the windward one could not be reached till morning ; and the boat that had killed it lay by its side all night ; and that boat was Ahab ' s .
The waif - pole was thrust upright into the dead whale ' s spout - hole ; and the lantern hanging from its top , cast a troubled flickering glare upon the black , glossy back , and far out upon the midnight waves , which gently chafed the whale ' s broad flank , like soft surf upon a beach .
Ahab and all his boat ' s crew seemed asleep but the Parsee ; who crouching in the bow , sat watching the sharks , that spectrally played round the whale , and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails .
A sound like the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven ghosts of Gomorrah , ran shuddering through the air .
Started from his slumbers , Ahab , face to face , saw the Parsee ; and hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a flooded world .
" I have dreamed it again ," said he .
" Of the hearses ?
Have I not said , old man , that neither hearse nor coffin can be thine ?"
" And who are hearsed that die on the sea ?"
" But I said , old man , that ere thou couldst die on this voyage , two hearses must verily be seen by thee on the sea ; the first not made by mortal hands ; and the visible wood of the last one must be grown in America ."
" Aye , aye !
a strange sight that , Parsee :-- a hearse and its plumes floating over the ocean with the waves for the pall - bearers .
Ha !
Such a sight we shall not soon see ."
" Believe it or not , thou canst not die till it be seen , old man ."
" And what was that saying about thyself ?"
" Though it come to the last , I shall still go before thee thy pilot ."
" And when thou art so gone before -- if that ever befall -- then ere I can follow , thou must still appear to me , to pilot me still ?-- Was it not so ?
Well , then , did I believe all ye say , oh my pilot !
I have here two pledges that I shall yet slay Moby Dick and survive it ."
" Take another pledge , old man ," said the Parsee , as his eyes lighted up like fire - flies in the gloom --" Hemp only can kill thee ."
" The gallows , ye mean .-- I am immortal then , on land and on sea ," cried Ahab , with a laugh of derision ;--" Immortal on land and on sea !"
Both were silent again , as one man .
The grey dawn came on , and the slumbering crew arose from the boat ' s bottom , and ere noon the dead whale was brought to the ship .
CHAPTER 118
The Quadrant .
The season for the Line at length drew near ; and every day when Ahab , coming from his cabin , cast his eyes aloft , the vigilant helmsman would ostentatiously handle his spokes , and the eager mariners quickly run to the braces , and would stand there with all their eyes centrally fixed on the nailed doubloon ; impatient for the order to point the ship ' s prow for the equator .
In good time the order came .
It was hard upon high noon ; and Ahab , seated in the bows of his high - hoisted boat , was about taking his wonted daily observation of the sun to determine his latitude .
Now , in that Japanese sea , the days in summer are as freshets of effulgences .
That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing focus of the glassy ocean ' s immeasurable burning - glass .
The sky looks lacquered ; clouds there are none ; the horizon floats ; and this nakedness of unrelieved radiance is as the insufferable splendors of God ' s throne .
Well that Ahab ' s quadrant was furnished with coloured glasses , through which to take sight of that solar fire .
So , swinging his seated form to the roll of the ship , and with his astrological - looking instrument placed to his eye , he remained in that posture for some moments to catch the precise instant when the sun should gain its precise meridian .
Meantime while his whole attention was absorbed , the Parsee was kneeling beneath him on the ship ' s deck , and with face thrown up like Ahab ' s , was eyeing the same sun with him ; only the lids of his eyes half hooded their orbs , and his wild face was subdued to an earthly passionlessness .
At length the desired observation was taken ; and with his pencil upon his ivory leg , Ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at that precise instant .
Then falling into a moment ' s revery , he again looked up towards the sun and murmured to himself : " Thou sea - mark !
thou high and mighty Pilot !
thou tellest me truly where I AM -- but canst thou cast the least hint where I SHALL be ?
Or canst thou tell where some other thing besides me is this moment living ?
Where is Moby Dick ?
This instant thou must be eyeing him .
These eyes of mine look into the very eye that is even now beholding him ; aye , and into the eye that is even now equally beholding the objects on the unknown , thither side of thee , thou sun !"
Then gazing at his quadrant , and handling , one after the other , its numerous cabalistical contrivances , he pondered again , and muttered : " Foolish toy !
babies ' plaything of haughty Admirals , and Commodores , and Captains ; the world brags of thee , of thy cunning and might ; but what after all canst thou do , but tell the poor , pitiful point , where thou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet , and the hand that holds thee : no !
not one jot more !
Thou canst not tell where one drop of water or one grain of sand will be to - morrow noon ; and yet with thy impotence thou insultest the sun !
Science !
Curse thee , thou vain toy ; and cursed be all the things that cast man ' s eyes aloft to that heaven , whose live vividness but scorches him , as these old eyes are even now scorched with thy light , O sun !
Level by nature to this earth ' s horizon are the glances of man ' s eyes ; not shot from the crown of his head , as if God had meant him to gaze on his firmament .
Curse thee , thou quadrant !"
dashing it to the deck , " no longer will I guide my earthly way by thee ; the level ship ' s compass , and the level deadreckoning , by log and by line ; THESE shall conduct me , and show me my place on the sea .
Aye ," lighting from the boat to the deck , " thus I trample on thee , thou paltry thing that feebly pointest on high ; thus I split and destroy thee !"
As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live and dead feet , a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab , and a fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself -- these passed over the mute , motionless Parsee ' s face .
Unobserved he rose and glided away ; while , awestruck by the aspect of their commander , the seamen clustered together on the forecastle , till Ahab , troubledly pacing the deck , shouted out --" To the braces !
Up helm !-- square in !"
In an instant the yards swung round ; and as the ship half - wheeled upon her heel , her three firm - seated graceful masts erectly poised upon her long , ribbed hull , seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on one sufficient steed .
Standing between the knight - heads , Starbuck watched the Pequod ' s tumultuous way , and Ahab ' s also , as he went lurching along the deck .
" I have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow , full of its tormented flaming life ; and I have seen it wane at last , down , down , to dumbest dust .
Old man of oceans !
of all this fiery life of thine , what will at length remain but one little heap of ashes !"
" Aye ," cried Stubb , " but sea - coal ashes -- mind ye that , Mr . Starbuck -- sea - coal , not your common charcoal .
Well , well ; I heard Ahab mutter , ' Here some one thrusts these cards into these old hands of mine ; swears that I must play them , and no others .'
And damn me , Ahab , but thou actest right ; live in the game , and die in it !"
CHAPTER 119
The Candles .
Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest fangs : the tiger of Bengal crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure .
Skies the most effulgent but basket the deadliest thunders : gorgeous Cuba knows tornadoes that never swept tame northern lands .
So , too , it is , that in these resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all storms , the Typhoon .
It will sometimes burst from out that cloudless sky , like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town .
Towards evening of that day , the Pequod was torn of her canvas , and bare - poled was left to fight a Typhoon which had struck her directly ahead .
When darkness came on , sky and sea roared and split with the thunder , and blazed with the lightning , that showed the disabled masts fluttering here and there with the rags which the first fury of the tempest had left for its after sport .
Holding by a shroud , Starbuck was standing on the quarter - deck ; at every flash of the lightning glancing aloft , to see what additional disaster might have befallen the intricate hamper there ; while Stubb and Flask were directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer lashing of the boats .
But all their pains seemed naught .
Though lifted to the very top of the cranes , the windward quarter boat ( Ahab ' s ) did not escape .
A great rolling sea , dashing high up against the reeling ship ' s high teetering side , stove in the boat ' s bottom at the stern , and left it again , all dripping through like a sieve .
" Bad work , bad work !
Mr . Starbuck ," said Stubb , regarding the wreck , " but the sea will have its way .
Stubb , for one , can ' t fight it .
You see , Mr . Starbuck , a wave has such a great long start before it leaps , all round the world it runs , and then comes the spring !
But as for me , all the start I have to meet it , is just across the deck here .
But never mind ; it ' s all in fun : so the old song says ;"--( SINGS .)
Oh !
jolly is the gale , And a joker is the whale , A ' flourishin ' his tail ,-- Such a funny , sporty , gamy , jesty , joky , hoky - poky lad , is the Ocean , oh !
The scud all a flyin ', That ' s his flip only foamin '; When he stirs in the spicin ',-- Such a funny , sporty , gamy , jesty , joky , hoky - poky lad , is the Ocean , oh !
Thunder splits the ships , But he only smacks his lips , A tastin ' of this flip ,-- Such a funny , sporty , gamy , jesty , joky , hoky - poky lad , is the Ocean , oh !
" Avast Stubb ," cried Starbuck , " let the Typhoon sing , and strike his harp here in our rigging ; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy peace ."
" But I am not a brave man ; never said I was a brave man ; I am a coward ; and I sing to keep up my spirits .
And I tell you what it is , Mr . Starbuck , there ' s no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my throat .
And when that ' s done , ten to one I sing ye the doxology for a wind - up ."
" Madman !
look through my eyes if thou hast none of thine own ."
" What !
how can you see better of a dark night than anybody else , never mind how foolish ?"
" Here !"
cried Starbuck , seizing Stubb by the shoulder , and pointing his hand towards the weather bow , " markest thou not that the gale comes from the eastward , the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick ?
the very course he swung to this day noon ?
now mark his boat there ; where is that stove ?
In the stern - sheets , man ; where he is wont to stand -- his stand - point is stove , man !
Now jump overboard , and sing away , if thou must !
" I don ' t half understand ye : what ' s in the wind ?"
" Yes , yes , round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to Nantucket ," soliloquized Starbuck suddenly , heedless of Stubb ' s question .
" The gale that now hammers at us to stave us , we can turn it into a fair wind that will drive us towards home .
Yonder , to windward , all is blackness of doom ; but to leeward , homeward -- I see it lightens up there ; but not with the lightning ."
At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness , following the flashes , a voice was heard at his side ; and almost at the same instant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead .
" Who ' s there ?"
" Old Thunder !"
said Ahab , groping his way along the bulwarks to his pivot - hole ; but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed lances of fire .
Now , as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off the perilous fluid into the soil ; so the kindred rod which at sea some ships carry to each mast , is intended to conduct it into the water .
But as this conductor must descend to considerable depth , that its end may avoid all contact with the hull ; and as moreover , if kept constantly towing there , it would be liable to many mishaps , besides interfering not a little with some of the rigging , and more or less impeding the vessel ' s way in the water ; because of all this , the lower parts of a ship ' s lightning - rods are not always overboard ; but are generally made in long slender links , so as to be the more readily hauled up into the chains outside , or thrown down into the sea , as occasion may require .
" The rods !
the rods !"
cried Starbuck to the crew , suddenly admonished to vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux , to light Ahab to his post .
" Are they overboard ?
drop them over , fore and aft .
Quick !"
" Avast !"
cried Ahab ; " let ' s have fair play here , though we be the weaker side .
Yet I ' ll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes , that all the world may be secured ; but out on privileges !
Let them be , sir ."
" Look aloft !"
cried Starbuck .
" The corpusants !
the corpusants !
All the yard - arms were tipped with a pallid fire ; and touched at each tri - pointed lightning - rod - end with three tapering white flames , each of the three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air , like three gigantic wax tapers before an altar .
" Blast the boat !
let it go !"
cried Stubb at this instant , as a swashing sea heaved up under his own little craft , so that its gunwale violently jammed his hand , as he was passing a lashing .
" Blast it !"
-- but slipping backward on the deck , his uplifted eyes caught the flames ; and immediately shifting his tone he cried --" The corpusants have mercy on us all !"
To sailors , oaths are household words ; they will swear in the trance of the calm , and in the teeth of the tempest ; they will imprecate curses from the topsail - yard - arms , when most they teeter over to a seething sea ; but in all my voyagings , seldom have I heard a common oath when God ' s burning finger has been laid on the ship ; when His " Mene , Mene , Tekel Upharsin " has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage .
While this pallidness was burning aloft , few words were heard from the enchanted crew ; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastle , all their eyes gleaming in that pale phosphorescence , like a far away constellation of stars .
Relieved against the ghostly light , the gigantic jet negro , Daggoo , loomed up to thrice his real stature , and seemed the black cloud from which the thunder had come .
The parted mouth of Tashtego revealed his shark - white teeth , which strangely gleamed as if they too had been tipped by corpusants ; while lit up by the preternatural light , Queequeg ' s tattooing burned like Satanic blue flames on his body .
The tableau all waned at last with the pallidness aloft ; and once more the Pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall .
A moment or two passed , when Starbuck , going forward , pushed against some one .
It was Stubb .
" What thinkest thou now , man ; I heard thy cry ; it was not the same in the song ."
" No , no , it wasn ' t ; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all ; and I hope they will , still .
But do they only have mercy on long faces ?-- have they no bowels for a laugh ?
And look ye , Mr . Starbuck -- but it ' s too dark to look .
Hear me , then : I take that mast - head flame we saw for a sign of good luck ; for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be chock a ' block with sperm - oil , d ' ye see ; and so , all that sperm will work up into the masts , like sap in a tree .
Yes , our three masts will yet be as three spermaceti candles -- that ' s the good promise we saw ."
At that moment Starbuck caught sight of Stubb ' s face slowly beginning to glimmer into sight .
Glancing upwards , he cried : " See !
see !"
and once more the high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed redoubled supernaturalness in their pallor .
" The corpusants have mercy on us all ," cried Stubb , again .
At the base of the mainmast , full beneath the doubloon and the flame , the Parsee was kneeling in Ahab ' s front , but with his head bowed away from him ; while near by , from the arched and overhanging rigging , where they had just been engaged securing a spar , a number of the seamen , arrested by the glare , now cohered together , and hung pendulous , like a knot of numbed wasps from a drooping , orchard twig .
In various enchanted attitudes , like the standing , or stepping , or running skeletons in Herculaneum , others remained rooted to the deck ; but all their eyes upcast .
" Aye , aye , men !"
cried Ahab .
" Look up at it ; mark it well ; the white flame but lights the way to the White Whale !
Hand me those mainmast links there ; I would fain feel this pulse , and let mine beat against it ; blood against fire !
So ."
Then turning -- the last link held fast in his left hand , he put his foot upon the Parsee ; and with fixed upward eye , and high - flung right arm , he stood erect before the lofty tri - pointed trinity of flames .
" Oh !
thou clear spirit of clear fire , whom on these seas I as Persian once did worship , till in the sacramental act so burned by thee , that to this hour I bear the scar ; I now know thee , thou clear spirit , and I now know that thy right worship is defiance .
To neither love nor reverence wilt thou be kind ; and e ' en for hate thou canst but kill ; and all are killed .
No fearless fool now fronts thee .
I own thy speechless , placeless power ; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will dispute its unconditional , unintegral mastery in me .
In the midst of the personified impersonal , a personality stands here .
Though but a point at best ; whencesoe ' er I came ; wheresoe ' er I go ; yet while I earthly live , the queenly personality lives in me , and feels her royal rights .
But war is pain , and hate is woe .
Come in thy lowest form of love , and I will kneel and kiss thee ; but at thy highest , come as mere supernal power ; and though thou launchest navies of full - freighted worlds , there ' s that in here that still remains indifferent .
Oh , thou clear spirit , of thy fire thou madest me , and like a true child of fire , I breathe it back to thee ."
[ SUDDEN , REPEATED FLASHES OF LIGHTNING ; THE NINE FLAMES LEAP LENGTHWISE TO THRICE THEIR PREVIOUS HEIGHT ; AHAB , WITH THE REST , CLOSES HIS EYES , HIS RIGHT HAND PRESSED HARD UPON THEM .]
" I own thy speechless , placeless power ; said I not so ?
Nor was it wrung from me ; nor do I now drop these links .
Thou canst blind ; but I can then grope .
Thou canst consume ; but I can then be ashes .
Take the homage of these poor eyes , and shutter - hands .
I would not take it .
The lightning flashes through my skull ; mine eye - balls ache and ache ; my whole beaten brain seems as beheaded , and rolling on some stunning ground .
Oh , oh !
Yet blindfold , yet will I talk to thee .
Light though thou be , thou leapest out of darkness ; but I am darkness leaping out of light , leaping out of thee !
The javelins cease ; open eyes ; see , or not ?
There burn the flames !
Oh , thou magnanimous !
now I do glory in my genealogy .
But thou art but my fiery father ; my sweet mother , I know not .
Oh , cruel !
what hast thou done with her ?
There lies my puzzle ; but thine is greater .
Thou knowest not how came ye , hence callest thyself unbegotten ; certainly knowest not thy beginning , hence callest thyself unbegun .
I know that of me , which thou knowest not of thyself , oh , thou omnipotent .
There is some unsuffusing thing beyond thee , thou clear spirit , to whom all thy eternity is but time , all thy creativeness mechanical .
Through thee , thy flaming self , my scorched eyes do dimly see it .
Oh , thou foundling fire , thou hermit immemorial , thou too hast thy incommunicable riddle , thy unparticipated grief .
Here again with haughty agony , I read my sire .
Leap !
leap up , and lick the sky !
I leap with thee ; I burn with thee ; would fain be welded with thee ; defyingly I worship thee !"
" The boat !
the boat !"
cried Starbuck , " look at thy boat , old man !"
Ahab ' s harpoon , the one forged at Perth ' s fire , remained firmly lashed in its conspicuous crotch , so that it projected beyond his whale - boat ' s bow ; but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather sheath to drop off ; and from the keen steel barb there now came a levelled flame of pale , forked fire .
As the silent harpoon burned there like a serpent ' s tongue , Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm --" God , God is against thee , old man ; forbear !
' tis an ill voyage !
ill begun , ill continued ; let me square the yards , while we may , old man , and make a fair wind of it homewards , to go on a better voyage than this ."
Overhearing Starbuck , the panic - stricken crew instantly ran to the braces -- though not a sail was left aloft .
For the moment all the aghast mate ' s thoughts seemed theirs ; they raised a half mutinous cry .
But dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck , and snatching the burning harpoon , Ahab waved it like a torch among them ; swearing to transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope ' s end .
Petrified by his aspect , and still more shrinking from the fiery dart that he held , the men fell back in dismay , and Ahab again spoke :--
" All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine ; and heart , soul , and body , lungs and life , old Ahab is bound .
And that ye may know to what tune this heart beats ; look ye here ; thus I blow out the last fear !"
And with one blast of his breath he extinguished the flame .
As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain , men fly the neighborhood of some lone , gigantic elm , whose very height and strength but render it so much the more unsafe , because so much the more a mark for thunderbolts ; so at those last words of Ahab ' s many of the mariners did run from him in a terror of dismay .
CHAPTER 120
The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch .
AHAB STANDING BY THE HELM .
STARBUCK APPROACHING HIM .
We must send down the main - top - sail yard , sir .
The band is working loose and the lee lift is half - stranded .
Shall I strike it , sir ?"
" Strike nothing ; lash it .
If I had sky - sail poles , I ' d sway them up now ."
" Sir !-- in God ' s name !-- sir ?"
" Well ."
" The anchors are working , sir .
Shall I get them inboard ?"
" Strike nothing , and stir nothing , but lash everything .
The wind rises , but it has not got up to my table - lands yet .
Quick , and see to it .-- By masts and keels !
he takes me for the hunch - backed skipper of some coasting smack .
Send down my main - top - sail yard !
Ho , gluepots !
Loftiest trucks were made for wildest winds , and this brain - truck of mine now sails amid the cloud - scud .
Shall I strike that ?
Oh , none but cowards send down their brain - trucks in tempest time .
What a hooroosh aloft there !
I would e ' en take it for sublime , did I not know that the colic is a noisy malady .
Oh , take medicine , take medicine !"
CHAPTER 121
Midnight .-- The Forecastle Bulwarks .
STUBB AND FLASK MOUNTED ON THEM , AND PASSING ADDITIONAL LASHINGS OVER THE ANCHORS THERE HANGING .
No , Stubb ; you may pound that knot there as much as you please , but you will never pound into me what you were just now saying .
And how long ago is it since you said the very contrary ?
Didn ' t you once say that whatever ship Ahab sails in , that ship should pay something extra on its insurance policy , just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft and boxes of lucifers forward ?
Stop , now ; didn ' t you say so ?"
" Well , suppose I did ?
What then ?
I ' ve part changed my flesh since that time , why not my mind ?
Besides , supposing we ARE loaded with powder barrels aft and lucifers forward ; how the devil could the lucifers get afire in this drenching spray here ?
Why , my little man , you have pretty red hair , but you couldn ' t get afire now .
Shake yourself ; you ' re Aquarius , or the water - bearer , Flask ; might fill pitchers at your coat collar .
Don ' t you see , then , that for these extra risks the Marine Insurance companies have extra guarantees ?
Here are hydrants , Flask .
But hark , again , and I ' ll answer ye the other thing .
First take your leg off from the crown of the anchor here , though , so I can pass the rope ; now listen .
What ' s the mighty difference between holding a mast ' s lightning - rod in the storm , and standing close by a mast that hasn ' t got any lightning - rod at all in a storm ?
Don ' t you see , you timber - head , that no harm can come to the holder of the rod , unless the mast is first struck ?
What are you talking about , then ?
Not one ship in a hundred carries rods , and Ahab ,-- aye , man , and all of us ,-- were in no more danger then , in my poor opinion , than all the crews in ten thousand ships now sailing the seas .
Why , you King - Post , you , I suppose you would have every man in the world go about with a small lightning - rod running up the corner of his hat , like a militia officer ' s skewered feather , and trailing behind like his sash .
Why don ' t ye be sensible , Flask ?
it ' s easy to be sensible ; why don ' t ye , then ?
any man with half an eye can be sensible ."
" I don ' t know that , Stubb .
You sometimes find it rather hard ."
" Yes , when a fellow ' s soaked through , it ' s hard to be sensible , that ' s a fact .
And I am about drenched with this spray .
Never mind ; catch the turn there , and pass it .
Seems to me we are lashing down these anchors now as if they were never going to be used again .
Tying these two anchors here , Flask , seems like tying a man ' s hands behind him .
And what big generous hands they are , to be sure .
These are your iron fists , hey ?
What a hold they have , too !
I wonder , Flask , whether the world is anchored anywhere ; if she is , she swings with an uncommon long cable , though .
There , hammer that knot down , and we ' ve done .
So ; next to touching land , lighting on deck is the most satisfactory .
I say , just wring out my jacket skirts , will ye ?
Thank ye .
They laugh at long - togs so , Flask ; but seems to me , a Long tailed coat ought always to be worn in all storms afloat .
The tails tapering down that way , serve to carry off the water , d ' ye see .
Same with cocked hats ; the cocks form gable - end eave - troughs , Flask .
No more monkey - jackets and tarpaulins for me ; I must mount a swallow - tail , and drive down a beaver ; so .
Halloa !
whew !
there goes my tarpaulin overboard ; Lord , Lord , that the winds that come from heaven should be so unmannerly !
This is a nasty night , lad ."
CHAPTER 122
Midnight Aloft .-- Thunder and Lightning .
THE MAIN - TOP - SAIL YARD .-- TASHTEGO PASSING NEW LASHINGS AROUND IT .
" Um , um , um .
Stop that thunder !
Plenty too much thunder up here .
What ' s the use of thunder ?
Um , um , um .
We don ' t want thunder ; we want rum ; give us a glass of rum .
Um , um , um !"
CHAPTER 123
The Musket .
During the most violent shocks of the Typhoon , the man at the Pequod ' s jaw - bone tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to the deck by its spasmodic motions , even though preventer tackles had been attached to it -- for they were slack -- because some play to the tiller was indispensable .
In a severe gale like this , while the ship is but a tossed shuttlecock to the blast , it is by no means uncommon to see the needles in the compasses , at intervals , go round and round .
It was thus with the Pequod ' s ; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to notice the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards ; it is a sight that hardly anyone can behold without some sort of unwonted emotion .
Some hours after midnight , the Typhoon abated so much , that through the strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb -- one engaged forward and the other aft -- the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main - top - sails were cut adrift from the spars , and went eddying away to leeward , like the feathers of an albatross , which sometimes are cast to the winds when that storm - tossed bird is on the wing .
The three corresponding new sails were now bent and reefed , and a storm - trysail was set further aft ; so that the ship soon went through the water with some precision again ; and the course -- for the present , East - south - east -- which he was to steer , if practicable , was once more given to the helmsman .
For during the violence of the gale , he had only steered according to its vicissitudes .
But as he was now bringing the ship as near her course as possible , watching the compass meanwhile , lo !
a good sign !
the wind seemed coming round astern ; aye , the foul breeze became fair !
Instantly the yards were squared , to the lively song of " HO !
THE FAIR WIND !
OH - YE - HO , CHEERLY MEN !"
the crew singing for joy , that so promising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents preceding it .
In compliance with the standing order of his commander -- to report immediately , and at any one of the twenty - four hours , any decided change in the affairs of the deck ,-- Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to the breeze -- however reluctantly and gloomily ,-- than he mechanically went below to apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance .
Ere knocking at his state - room , he involuntarily paused before it a moment .
The cabin lamp -- taking long swings this way and that -- was burning fitfully , and casting fitful shadows upon the old man ' s bolted door ,-- a thin one , with fixed blinds inserted , in place of upper panels .
The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain humming silence to reign there , though it was hooped round by all the roar of the elements .
The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed , as they stood upright against the forward bulkhead .
Starbuck was an honest , upright man ; but out of Starbuck ' s heart , at that instant when he saw the muskets , there strangely evolved an evil thought ; but so blent with its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew it for itself .
" He would have shot me once ," he murmured , " yes , there ' s the very musket that he pointed at me ;-- that one with the studded stock ; let me touch it -- lift it .
Strange , that I , who have handled so many deadly lances , strange , that I should shake so now .
Loaded ?
I must see .
Aye , aye ; and powder in the pan ;-- that ' s not good .
Best spill it ?-- wait .
I ' ll cure myself of this .
I ' ll hold the musket boldly while I think .-- I come to report a fair wind to him .
But how fair ?
Fair for death and doom ,-- THAT ' S fair for Moby Dick .
It ' s a fair wind that ' s only fair for that accursed fish .-- The very tube he pointed at me !-- the very one ; THIS one -- I hold it here ; he would have killed me with the very thing I handle now .-- Aye and he would fain kill all his crew .
Does he not say he will not strike his spars to any gale ?
Has he not dashed his heavenly quadrant ?
and in these same perilous seas , gropes he not his way by mere dead reckoning of the error - abounding log ?
and in this very Typhoon , did he not swear that he would have no lightning - rods ?
But shall this crazed old man be tamely suffered to drag a whole ship ' s company down to doom with him ?-- Yes , it would make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and more , if this ship come to any deadly harm ; and come to deadly harm , my soul swears this ship will , if Ahab have his way .
If , then , he were this instant -- put aside , that crime would not be his .
Ha !
is he muttering in his sleep ?
Yes , just there ,-- in there , he ' s sleeping .
Sleeping ?
aye , but still alive , and soon awake again .
I can ' t withstand thee , then , old man .
Not reasoning ; not remonstrance ; not entreaty wilt thou hearken to ; all this thou scornest .
Flat obedience to thy own flat commands , this is all thou breathest .
Aye , and say ' st the men have vow ' d thy vow ; say ' st all of us are Ahabs .
Great God forbid !-- But is there no other way ?
no lawful way ?-- Make him a prisoner to be taken home ?
What !
hope to wrest this old man ' s living power from his own living hands ?
Only a fool would try it .
Say he were pinioned even ; knotted all over with ropes and hawsers ; chained down to ring - bolts on this cabin floor ; he would be more hideous than a caged tiger , then .
I could not endure the sight ; could not possibly fly his howlings ; all comfort , sleep itself , inestimable reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage .
What , then , remains ?
The land is hundreds of leagues away , and locked Japan the nearest .
I stand alone here upon an open sea , with two oceans and a whole continent between me and law .-- Aye , aye , ' tis so .-- Is heaven a murderer when its lightning strikes a would - be murderer in his bed , tindering sheets and skin together ?-- And would I be a murderer , then , if "-- and slowly , stealthily , and half sideways looking , he placed the loaded musket ' s end against the door .
" On this level , Ahab ' s hammock swings within ; his head this way .
A touch , and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again .-- Oh Mary !
Mary !-- boy !
boy !
boy !-- But if I wake thee not to death , old man , who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck ' s body this day week may sink , with all the crew !
Great God , where art Thou ?
Shall I ?
shall I ?-- The wind has gone down and shifted , sir ; the fore and main topsails are reefed and set ; she heads her course ."
" Stern all !
Oh Moby Dick , I clutch thy heart at last !"
Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man ' s tormented sleep , as if Starbuck ' s voice had caused the long dumb dream to speak .
The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard ' s arm against the panel ; Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel ; but turning from the door , he placed the death - tube in its rack , and left the place .
" He ' s too sound asleep , Mr . Stubb ; go thou down , and wake him , and tell him .
I must see to the deck here .
Thou know ' st what to say ."
CHAPTER 124
The Needle .
Next morning the not - yet - subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of mighty bulk , and striving in the Pequod ' s gurgling track , pushed her on like giants ' palms outspread .
The strong , unstaggering breeze abounded so , that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails ; the whole world boomed before the wind .
Muffled in the full morning light , the invisible sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place ; where his bayonet rays moved on in stacks .
Emblazonings , as of crowned Babylonian kings and queens , reigned over everything .
The sea was as a crucible of molten gold , that bubblingly leaps with light and heat .
Long maintaining an enchanted silence , Ahab stood apart ; and every time the tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit , he turned to eye the bright sun ' s rays produced ahead ; and when she profoundly settled by the stern , he turned behind , and saw the sun ' s rearward place , and how the same yellow rays were blending with his undeviating wake .
" Ha , ha , my ship !
thou mightest well be taken now for the sea - chariot of the sun .
Ho , ho !
all ye nations before my prow , I bring the sun to ye !
Yoke on the further billows ; hallo !
a tandem , I drive the sea !"
But suddenly reined back by some counter thought , he hurried towards the helm , huskily demanding how the ship was heading .
" East - sou - east , sir ," said the frightened steersman .
" Thou liest !"
smiting him with his clenched fist .
" Heading East at this hour in the morning , and the sun astern ?"
Upon this every soul was confounded ; for the phenomenon just then observed by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else ; but its very blinding palpableness must have been the cause .
Thrusting his head half way into the binnacle , Ahab caught one glimpse of the compasses ; his uplifted arm slowly fell ; for a moment he almost seemed to stagger .
Standing behind him Starbuck looked , and lo !
the two compasses pointed East , and the Pequod was as infallibly going West .
But ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew , the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed , " I have it !
It has happened before .
Mr . Starbuck , last night ' s thunder turned our compasses -- that ' s all .
Thou hast before now heard of such a thing , I take it ."
" Aye ; but never before has it happened to me , sir ," said the pale mate , gloomily .
Here , it must needs be said , that accidents like this have in more than one case occurred to ships in violent storms .
The magnetic energy , as developed in the mariner ' s needle , is , as all know , essentially one with the electricity beheld in heaven ; hence it is not to be much marvelled at , that such things should be .
Instances where the lightning has actually struck the vessel , so as to smite down some of the spars and rigging , the effect upon the needle has at times been still more fatal ; all its loadstone virtue being annihilated , so that the before magnetic steel was of no more use than an old wife ' s knitting needle .
But in either case , the needle never again , of itself , recovers the original virtue thus marred or lost ; and if the binnacle compasses be affected , the same fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship ; even were the lowermost one inserted into the kelson .
Deliberately standing before the binnacle , and eyeing the transpointed compasses , the old man , with the sharp of his extended hand , now took the precise bearing of the sun , and satisfied that the needles were exactly inverted , shouted out his orders for the ship ' s course to be changed accordingly .
The yards were hard up ; and once more the Pequod thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind , for the supposed fair one had only been juggling her .
Meanwhile , whatever were his own secret thoughts , Starbuck said nothing , but quietly he issued all requisite orders ; while Stubb and Flask -- who in some small degree seemed then to be sharing his feelings -- likewise unmurmuringly acquiesced .
As for the men , though some of them lowly rumbled , their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear of Fate .
But as ever before , the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly unimpressed ; or if impressed , it was only with a certain magnetism shot into their congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab ' s .
For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries .
But chancing to slip with his ivory heel , he saw the crushed copper sight - tubes of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck .
" Thou poor , proud heaven - gazer and sun ' s pilot !
yesterday I wrecked thee , and to - day the compasses would fain have wrecked me .
So , so .
But Ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet .
Mr . Starbuck -- a lance without a pole ; a top - maul , and the smallest of the sail - maker ' s needles .
Quick !"
Accessory , perhaps , to the impulse dictating the thing he was now about to do , were certain prudential motives , whose object might have been to revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill , in a matter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses .
Besides , the old man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles , though clumsily practicable , was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious sailors , without some shudderings and evil portents .
" Men ," said he , steadily turning upon the crew , as the mate handed him the things he had demanded , " my men , the thunder turned old Ahab ' s needles ; but out of this bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own , that will point as true as any ."
Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors , as this was said ; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic might follow .
But Starbuck looked away .
With a blow from the top - maul Ahab knocked off the steel head of the lance , and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining , bade him hold it upright , without its touching the deck .
Then , with the maul , after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod , he placed the blunted needle endwise on the top of it , and less strongly hammered that , several times , the mate still holding the rod as before .
Then going through some small strange motions with it -- whether indispensable to the magnetizing of the steel , or merely intended to augment the awe of the crew , is uncertain -- he called for linen thread ; and moving to the binnacle , slipped out the two reversed needles there , and horizontally suspended the sail - needle by its middle , over one of the compass - cards .
At first , the steel went round and round , quivering and vibrating at either end ; but at last it settled to its place , when Ahab , who had been intently watching for this result , stepped frankly back from the binnacle , and pointing his stretched arm towards it , exclaimed ,--" Look ye , for yourselves , if Ahab be not lord of the level loadstone !
The sun is East , and that compass swears it !"
One after another they peered in , for nothing but their own eyes could persuade such ignorance as theirs , and one after another they slunk away .
In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph , you then saw Ahab in all his fatal pride .
CHAPTER 125
The Log and Line .
While now the fated Pequod had been so long afloat this voyage , the log and line had but very seldom been in use .
Owing to a confident reliance upon other means of determining the vessel ' s place , some merchantmen , and many whalemen , especially when cruising , wholly neglect to heave the log ; though at the same time , and frequently more for form ' s sake than anything else , regularly putting down upon the customary slate the course steered by the ship , as well as the presumed average rate of progression every hour .
It had been thus with the Pequod .
The wooden reel and angular log attached hung , long untouched , just beneath the railing of the after bulwarks .
Rains and spray had damped it ; sun and wind had warped it ; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that hung so idly .
But heedless of all this , his mood seized Ahab , as he happened to glance upon the reel , not many hours after the magnet scene , and he remembered how his quadrant was no more , and recalled his frantic oath about the level log and line .
The ship was sailing plungingly ; astern the billows rolled in riots .
" Forward , there !
Heave the log !"
Two seamen came .
The golden - hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman .
" Take the reel , one of ye , I ' ll heave ."
They went towards the extreme stern , on the ship ' s lee side , where the deck , with the oblique energy of the wind , was now almost dipping into the creamy , sidelong - rushing sea .
The Manxman took the reel , and holding it high up , by the projecting handle - ends of the spindle , round which the spool of line revolved , so stood with the angular log hanging downwards , till Ahab advanced to him .
Ahab stood before him , and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty turns to form a preliminary hand - coil to toss overboard , when the old Manxman , who was intently eyeing both him and the line , made bold to speak .
" Sir , I mistrust it ; this line looks far gone , long heat and wet have spoiled it ."
"' Twill hold , old gentleman .
Long heat and wet , have they spoiled thee ?
Thou seem ' st to hold .
Or , truer perhaps , life holds thee ; not thou it ."
" I hold the spool , sir .
But just as my captain says .
With these grey hairs of mine ' tis not worth while disputing , ' specially with a superior , who ' ll ne ' er confess ."
" What ' s that ?
There now ' s a patched professor in Queen Nature ' s granite - founded College ; but methinks he ' s too subservient .
Where wert thou born ?"
" In the little rocky Isle of Man , sir ."
" Excellent !
Thou ' st hit the world by that ."
" I know not , sir , but I was born there ."
" In the Isle of Man , hey ?
Well , the other way , it ' s good .
Here ' s a man from Man ; a man born in once independent Man , and now unmanned of Man ; which is sucked in -- by what ?
Up with the reel !
The dead , blind wall butts all inquiring heads at last .
Up with it !
So ."
The log was heaved .
The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long dragging line astern , and then , instantly , the reel began to whirl .
In turn , jerkingly raised and lowered by the rolling billows , the towing resistance of the log caused the old reelman to stagger strangely .
" Hold hard !"
Snap !
the overstrained line sagged down in one long festoon ; the tugging log was gone .
" I crush the quadrant , the thunder turns the needles , and now the mad sea parts the log - line .
But Ahab can mend all .
Haul in here , Tahitian ; reel up , Manxman .
And look ye , let the carpenter make another log , and mend thou the line .
See to it ."
" There he goes now ; to him nothing ' s happened ; but to me , the skewer seems loosening out of the middle of the world .
Haul in , haul in , Tahitian !
These lines run whole , and whirling out : come in broken , and dragging slow .
Ha , Pip ?
come to help ; eh , Pip ?"
" Pip ?
whom call ye Pip ?
Pip jumped from the whale - boat .
Pip ' s missing .
Let ' s see now if ye haven ' t fished him up here , fisherman .
It drags hard ; I guess he ' s holding on .
Jerk him , Tahiti !
Jerk him off ; we haul in no cowards here .
Ho !
there ' s his arm just breaking water .
A hatchet !
a hatchet !
cut it off -- we haul in no cowards here .
Captain Ahab !
sir , sir !
here ' s Pip , trying to get on board again ."
" Peace , thou crazy loon ," cried the Manxman , seizing him by the arm .
" Away from the quarter - deck !"
" The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser ," muttered Ahab , advancing .
" Hands off from that holiness !
Where sayest thou Pip was , boy ?
" Astern there , sir , astern !
Lo !
lo !"
" And who art thou , boy ?
I see not my reflection in the vacant pupils of thy eyes .
Oh God !
that man should be a thing for immortal souls to sieve through !
Who art thou , boy ?"
" Bell - boy , sir ; ship ' s - crier ; ding , dong , ding !
Pip !
Pip !
Pip !
One hundred pounds of clay reward for Pip ; five feet high -- looks cowardly -- quickest known by that !
Ding , dong , ding !
Who ' s seen Pip the coward ?"
" There can be no hearts above the snow - line .
Oh , ye frozen heavens !
look down here .
Ye did beget this luckless child , and have abandoned him , ye creative libertines .
Here , boy ; Ahab ' s cabin shall be Pip ' s home henceforth , while Ahab lives .
Thou touchest my inmost centre , boy ; thou art tied to me by cords woven of my heart - strings .
Come , let ' s down ."
" What ' s this ?
here ' s velvet shark - skin ," intently gazing at Ahab ' s hand , and feeling it .
" Ah , now , had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing as this , perhaps he had ne ' er been lost !
This seems to me , sir , as a man - rope ; something that weak souls may hold by .
Oh , sir , let old Perth now come and rivet these two hands together ; the black one with the white , for I will not let this go ."
" Oh , boy , nor will I thee , unless I should thereby drag thee to worse horrors than are here .
Come , then , to my cabin .
Lo !
ye believers in gods all goodness , and in man all ill , lo you !
see the omniscient gods oblivious of suffering man ; and man , though idiotic , and knowing not what he does , yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude .
Come !
I feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand , than though I grasped an Emperor ' s !"
" There go two daft ones now ," muttered the old Manxman .
" One daft with strength , the other daft with weakness .
But here ' s the end of the rotten line -- all dripping , too .
Mend it , eh ?
I think we had best have a new line altogether .
I ' ll see Mr . Stubb about it ."
CHAPTER 126
The Life - Buoy .
Steering now south - eastward by Ahab ' s levelled steel , and her progress solely determined by Ahab ' s level log and line ; the Pequod held on her path towards the Equator .
Making so long a passage through such unfrequented waters , descrying no ships , and ere long , sideways impelled by unvarying trade winds , over waves monotonously mild ; all these seemed the strange calm things preluding some riotous and desperate scene .
At last , when the ship drew near to the outskirts , as it were , of the Equatorial fishing - ground , and in the deep darkness that goes before the dawn , was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets ; the watch -- then headed by Flask -- was startled by a cry so plaintively wild and unearthly -- like half - articulated wailings of the ghosts of all Herod ' s murdered Innocents -- that one and all , they started from their reveries , and for the space of some moments stood , or sat , or leaned all transfixedly listening , like the carved Roman slave , while that wild cry remained within hearing .
The Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was mermaids , and shuddered ; but the pagan harpooneers remained unappalled .
Yet the grey Manxman -- the oldest mariner of all -- declared that the wild thrilling sounds that were heard , were the voices of newly drowned men in the sea .
Below in his hammock , Ahab did not hear of this till grey dawn , when he came to the deck ; it was then recounted to him by Flask , not unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings .
He hollowly laughed , and thus explained the wonder .
Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort of great numbers of seals , and some young seals that had lost their dams , or some dams that had lost their cubs , must have risen nigh the ship and kept company with her , crying and sobbing with their human sort of wail .
But this only the more affected some of them , because most mariners cherish a very superstitious feeling about seals , arising not only from their peculiar tones when in distress , but also from the human look of their round heads and semi - intelligent faces , seen peeringly uprising from the water alongside .
In the sea , under certain circumstances , seals have more than once been mistaken for men .
But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most plausible confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning .
At sun - rise this man went from his hammock to his mast - head at the fore ; and whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep ( for sailors sometimes go aloft in a transition state ), whether it was thus with the man , there is now no telling ; but , be that as it may , he had not been long at his perch , when a cry was heard -- a cry and a rushing -- and looking up , they saw a falling phantom in the air ; and looking down , a little tossed heap of white bubbles in the blue of the sea .
The life - buoy -- a long slender cask -- was dropped from the stern , where it always hung obedient to a cunning spring ; but no hand rose to seize it , and the sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken , so that it slowly filled , and that parched wood also filled at its every pore ; and the studded iron - bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom , as if to yield him his pillow , though in sooth but a hard one .
And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look out for the White Whale , on the White Whale ' s own peculiar ground ; that man was swallowed up in the deep .
But few , perhaps , thought of that at the time .
Indeed , in some sort , they were not grieved at this event , at least as a portent ; for they regarded it , not as a foreshadowing of evil in the future , but as the fulfilment of an evil already presaged .
They declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks they had heard the night before .
But again the old Manxman said nay .
The lost life - buoy was now to be replaced ; Starbuck was directed to see to it ; but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found , and as in the feverish eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of the voyage , all hands were impatient of any toil but what was directly connected with its final end , whatever that might prove to be ; therefore , they were going to leave the ship ' s stern unprovided with a buoy , when by certain strange signs and inuendoes Queequeg hinted a hint concerning his coffin .
" A life - buoy of a coffin !"
cried Starbuck , starting .
" Rather queer , that , I should say ," said Stubb .
" It will make a good enough one ," said Flask , " the carpenter here can arrange it easily ."
" Bring it up ; there ' s nothing else for it ," said Starbuck , after a melancholy pause .
" Rig it , carpenter ; do not look at me so -- the coffin , I mean .
Dost thou hear me ?
Rig it ."
" And shall I nail down the lid , sir ?"
moving his hand as with a hammer .
" Aye ."
" And shall I caulk the seams , sir ?"
moving his hand as with a caulking - iron .
" Aye ."
" And shall I then pay over the same with pitch , sir ?"
moving his hand as with a pitch - pot .
" Away !
what possesses thee to this ?
Make a life - buoy of the coffin , and no more .-- Mr .
Stubb , Mr . Flask , come forward with me ."
" He goes off in a huff .
The whole he can endure ; at the parts he baulks .
Now I don ' t like this .
I make a leg for Captain Ahab , and he wears it like a gentleman ; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg , and he won ' t put his head into it .
Are all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin ?
And now I ' m ordered to make a life - buoy of it .
It ' s like turning an old coat ; going to bring the flesh on the other side now .
I don ' t like this cobbling sort of business -- I don ' t like it at all ; it ' s undignified ; it ' s not my place .
Let tinkers ' brats do tinkerings ; we are their betters .
I like to take in hand none but clean , virgin , fair - and - square mathematical jobs , something that regularly begins at the beginning , and is at the middle when midway , and comes to an end at the conclusion ; not a cobbler ' s job , that ' s at an end in the middle , and at the beginning at the end .
It ' s the old woman ' s tricks to be giving cobbling jobs .
Lord !
what an affection all old women have for tinkers .
I know an old woman of sixty - five who ran away with a bald - headed young tinker once .
And that ' s the reason I never would work for lonely widow old women ashore , when I kept my job - shop in the Vineyard ; they might have taken it into their lonely old heads to run off with me .
But heigh - ho !
there are no caps at sea but snow - caps .
Let me see .
Nail down the lid ; caulk the seams ; pay over the same with pitch ; batten them down tight , and hang it with the snap - spring over the ship ' s stern .
Were ever such things done before with a coffin ?
Some superstitious old carpenters , now , would be tied up in the rigging , ere they would do the job .
But I ' m made of knotty Aroostook hemlock ; I don ' t budge .
Cruppered with a coffin !
Sailing about with a grave - yard tray !
But never mind .
We workers in woods make bridal - bedsteads and card - tables , as well as coffins and hearses .
We work by the month , or by the job , or by the profit ; not for us to ask the why and wherefore of our work , unless it be too confounded cobbling , and then we stash it if we can .
Hem !
I ' ll do the job , now , tenderly .
I ' ll have me -- let ' s see -- how many in the ship ' s company , all told ?
But I ' ve forgotten .
Any way , I ' ll have me thirty separate , Turk ' s - headed life - lines , each three feet long hanging all round to the coffin .
Then , if the hull go down , there ' ll be thirty lively fellows all fighting for one coffin , a sight not seen very often beneath the sun !
Come hammer , caulking - iron , pitch - pot , and marling - spike !
Let ' s to it ."
CHAPTER 127
The Deck .
THE COFFIN LAID UPON TWO LINE - TUBS , BETWEEN THE VICE - BENCH AND THE OPEN HATCHWAY ; THE CARPENTER CAULKING ITS SEAMS ; THE STRING OF TWISTED OAKUM SLOWLY UNWINDING FROM A LARGE ROLL OF IT PLACED IN THE BOSOM OF HIS FROCK .-- AHAB COMES SLOWLY FROM THE CABIN - GANGWAY , AND HEARS PIP FOLLOWING HIM .
Back , lad ; I will be with ye again presently .
He goes !
Not this hand complies with my humor more genially than that boy .-- Middle aisle of a church !
What ' s here ?"
" Life - buoy , sir .
Mr . Starbuck ' s orders .
Oh , look , sir !
Beware the hatchway !"
" Thank ye , man .
Thy coffin lies handy to the vault ."
" Sir ?
The hatchway ?
oh !
So it does , sir , so it does ."
" Art not thou the leg - maker ?
Look , did not this stump come from thy shop ?"
" I believe it did , sir ; does the ferrule stand , sir ?"
" Well enough .
But art thou not also the undertaker ?"
" Aye , sir ; I patched up this thing here as a coffin for Queequeg ; but they ' ve set me now to turning it into something else ."
" Then tell me ; art thou not an arrant , all - grasping , intermeddling , monopolising , heathenish old scamp , to be one day making legs , and the next day coffins to clap them in , and yet again life - buoys out of those same coffins ?
Thou art as unprincipled as the gods , and as much of a jack - of - all - trades ."
" But I do not mean anything , sir .
I do as I do ."
" The gods again .
Hark ye , dost thou not ever sing working about a coffin ?
The Titans , they say , hummed snatches when chipping out the craters for volcanoes ; and the grave - digger in the play sings , spade in hand .
Dost thou never ?"
" Sing , sir ?
Do I sing ?
Oh , I ' m indifferent enough , sir , for that ; but the reason why the grave - digger made music must have been because there was none in his spade , sir .
But the caulking mallet is full of it .
Hark to it ."
" Aye , and that ' s because the lid there ' s a sounding - board ; and what in all things makes the sounding - board is this -- there ' s naught beneath .
And yet , a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much the same , Carpenter .
Hast thou ever helped carry a bier , and heard the coffin knock against the churchyard gate , going in ?
" Faith , sir , I ' ve --"
" Faith ?
What ' s that ?"
" Why , faith , sir , it ' s only a sort of exclamation - like -- that ' s all , sir ."
" Um , um ; go on ."
" I was about to say , sir , that --"
" Art thou a silk - worm ?
Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself ?
Look at thy bosom !
Despatch !
and get these traps out of sight ."
" He goes aft .
That was sudden , now ; but squalls come sudden in hot latitudes .
I ' ve heard that the Isle of Albemarle , one of the Gallipagos , is cut by the Equator right in the middle .
Seems to me some sort of Equator cuts yon old man , too , right in his middle .
He ' s always under the Line -- fiery hot , I tell ye !
He ' s looking this way -- come , oakum ; quick .
Here we go again .
This wooden mallet is the cork , and I ' m the professor of musical glasses -- tap , tap !"
( AHAB TO HIMSELF .)
" There ' s a sight !
There ' s a sound !
The grey - headed woodpecker tapping the hollow tree !
Blind and dumb might well be envied now .
See !
that thing rests on two line - tubs , full of tow - lines .
A most malicious wag , that fellow .
Rat - tat !
So man ' s seconds tick !
Oh !
how immaterial are all materials !
What things real are there , but imponderable thoughts ?
Here now ' s the very dreaded symbol of grim death , by a mere hap , made the expressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life .
A life - buoy of a coffin !
Does it go further ?
Can it be that in some spiritual sense the coffin is , after all , but an immortality - preserver !
I ' ll think of that .
But no .
So far gone am I in the dark side of earth , that its other side , the theoretic bright one , seems but uncertain twilight to me .
Will ye never have done , Carpenter , with that accursed sound ?
I go below ; let me not see that thing here when I return again .
Now , then , Pip , we ' ll talk this over ; I do suck most wondrous philosophies from thee !
Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds must empty into thee !"
CHAPTER 128
The Pequod Meets The Rachel .
Next day , a large ship , the Rachel , was descried , bearing directly down upon the Pequod , all her spars thickly clustering with men .
At the time the Pequod was making good speed through the water ; but as the broad - winged windward stranger shot nigh to her , the boastful sails all fell together as blank bladders that are burst , and all life fled from the smitten hull .
" Bad news ; she brings bad news ," muttered the old Manxman .
But ere her commander , who , with trumpet to mouth , stood up in his boat ; ere he could hopefully hail , Ahab ' s voice was heard .
" Hast seen the White Whale ?"
" Aye , yesterday .
Have ye seen a whale - boat adrift ?"
Throttling his joy , Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question ; and would then have fain boarded the stranger , when the stranger captain himself , having stopped his vessel ' s way , was seen descending her side .
A few keen pulls , and his boat - hook soon clinched the Pequod ' s main - chains , and he sprang to the deck .
Immediately he was recognised by Ahab for a Nantucketer he knew .
But no formal salutation was exchanged .
" Where was he ?-- not killed !-- not killed !"
cried Ahab , closely advancing .
" How was it ?"
It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previous , while three of the stranger ' s boats were engaged with a shoal of whales , which had led them some four or five miles from the ship ; and while they were yet in swift chase to windward , the white hump and head of Moby Dick had suddenly loomed up out of the water , not very far to leeward ; whereupon , the fourth rigged boat -- a reserved one -- had been instantly lowered in chase .
After a keen sail before the wind , this fourth boat -- the swiftest keeled of all -- seemed to have succeeded in fastening -- at least , as well as the man at the mast - head could tell anything about it .
In the distance he saw the diminished dotted boat ; and then a swift gleam of bubbling white water ; and after that nothing more ; whence it was concluded that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with his pursuers , as often happens .
There was some apprehension , but no positive alarm , as yet .
The recall signals were placed in the rigging ; darkness came on ; and forced to pick up her three far to windward boats -- ere going in quest of the fourth one in the precisely opposite direction -- the ship had not only been necessitated to leave that boat to its fate till near midnight , but , for the time , to increase her distance from it .
But the rest of her crew being at last safe aboard , she crowded all sail -- stunsail on stunsail -- after the missing boat ; kindling a fire in her try - pots for a beacon ; and every other man aloft on the look - out .
But though when she had thus sailed a sufficient distance to gain the presumed place of the absent ones when last seen ; though she then paused to lower her spare boats to pull all around her ; and not finding anything , had again dashed on ; again paused , and lowered her boats ; and though she had thus continued doing till daylight ; yet not the least glimpse of the missing keel had been seen .
The story told , the stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his object in boarding the Pequod .
He desired that ship to unite with his own in the search ; by sailing over the sea some four or five miles apart , on parallel lines , and so sweeping a double horizon , as it were .
" I will wager something now ," whispered Stubb to Flask , " that some one in that missing boat wore off that Captain ' s best coat ; mayhap , his watch -- he ' s so cursed anxious to get it back .
Who ever heard of two pious whale - ships cruising after one missing whale - boat in the height of the whaling season ?
See , Flask , only see how pale he looks -- pale in the very buttons of his eyes -- look -- it wasn ' t the coat -- it must have been the --"
" My boy , my own boy is among them .
For God ' s sake -- I beg , I conjure "-- here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab , who thus far had but icily received his petition .
" For eight - and - forty hours let me charter your ship -- I will gladly pay for it , and roundly pay for it -- if there be no other way -- for eight - and - forty hours only -- only that -- you must , oh , you must , and you SHALL do this thing ."
" His son !"
cried Stubb , " oh , it ' s his son he ' s lost !
I take back the coat and watch -- what says Ahab ?
We must save that boy ."
" He ' s drowned with the rest on ' em , last night ," said the old Manx sailor standing behind them ; " I heard ; all of ye heard their spirits ."
Now , as it shortly turned out , what made this incident of the Rachel ' s the more melancholy , was the circumstance , that not only was one of the Captain ' s sons among the number of the missing boat ' s crew ; but among the number of the other boat ' s crews , at the same time , but on the other hand , separated from the ship during the dark vicissitudes of the chase , there had been still another son ; as that for a time , the wretched father was plunged to the bottom of the cruellest perplexity ; which was only solved for him by his chief mate ' s instinctively adopting the ordinary procedure of a whale - ship in such emergencies , that is , when placed between jeopardized but divided boats , always to pick up the majority first .
But the captain , for some unknown constitutional reason , had refrained from mentioning all this , and not till forced to it by Ahab ' s iciness did he allude to his one yet missing boy ; a little lad , but twelve years old , whose father with the earnest but unmisgiving hardihood of a Nantucketer ' s paternal love , had thus early sought to initiate him in the perils and wonders of a vocation almost immemorially the destiny of all his race .
Nor does it unfrequently occur , that Nantucket captains will send a son of such tender age away from them , for a protracted three or four years ' voyage in some other ship than their own ; so that their first knowledge of a whaleman ' s career shall be unenervated by any chance display of a father ' s natural but untimely partiality , or undue apprehensiveness and concern .
Meantime , now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of Ahab ; and Ahab still stood like an anvil , receiving every shock , but without the least quivering of his own .
" I will not go ," said the stranger , " till you say aye to me .
Do to me as you would have me do to you in the like case .
For YOU too have a boy , Captain Ahab -- though but a child , and nestling safely at home now -- a child of your old age too -- Yes , yes , you relent ; I see it -- run , run , men , now , and stand by to square in the yards ."
" Avast ," cried Ahab --" touch not a rope - yarn "; then in a voice that prolongingly moulded every word --" Captain Gardiner , I will not do it .
Even now I lose time .
Good - bye , good - bye .
God bless ye , man , and may I forgive myself , but I must go .
Mr . Starbuck , look at the binnacle watch , and in three minutes from this present instant warn off all strangers : then brace forward again , and let the ship sail as before ."
Hurriedly turning , with averted face , he descended into his cabin , leaving the strange captain transfixed at this unconditional and utter rejection of his so earnest suit .
But starting from his enchantment , Gardiner silently hurried to the side ; more fell than stepped into his boat , and returned to his ship .
Soon the two ships diverged their wakes ; and long as the strange vessel was in view , she was seen to yaw hither and thither at every dark spot , however small , on the sea .
This way and that her yards were swung round ; starboard and larboard , she continued to tack ; now she beat against a head sea ; and again it pushed her before it ; while all the while , her masts and yards were thickly clustered with men , as three tall cherry trees , when the boys are cherrying among the boughs .
But by her still halting course and winding , woeful way , you plainly saw that this ship that so wept with spray , still remained without comfort .
She was Rachel , weeping for her children , because they were not .
CHAPTER 129
The Cabin .
( AHAB MOVING TO GO ON DECK ; PIP CATCHES HIM BY THE HAND TO FOLLOW .)
Lad , lad , I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab now .
The hour is coming when Ahab would not scare thee from him , yet would not have thee by him .
There is that in thee , poor lad , which I feel too curing to my malady .
Like cures like ; and for this hunt , my malady becomes my most desired health .
Do thou abide below here , where they shall serve thee , as if thou wert the captain .
Aye , lad , thou shalt sit here in my own screwed chair ; another screw to it , thou must be ."
" No , no , no !
ye have not a whole body , sir ; do ye but use poor me for your one lost leg ; only tread upon me , sir ; I ask no more , so I remain a part of ye ."
" Oh !
spite of million villains , this makes me a bigot in the fadeless fidelity of man !-- and a black !
and crazy !-- but methinks like - cures - like applies to him too ; he grows so sane again ."
" They tell me , sir , that Stubb did once desert poor little Pip , whose drowned bones now show white , for all the blackness of his living skin .
But I will never desert ye , sir , as Stubb did him .
Sir , I must go with ye ."
" If thou speakest thus to me much more , Ahab ' s purpose keels up in him .
I tell thee no ; it cannot be ."
" Oh good master , master , master !
" Weep so , and I will murder thee !
have a care , for Ahab too is mad .
Listen , and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck , and still know that I am there .
And now I quit thee .
Thy hand !-- Met !
True art thou , lad , as the circumference to its centre .
So : God for ever bless thee ; and if it come to that ,-- God for ever save thee , let what will befall ."
( AHAB GOES ; PIP STEPS ONE STEP FORWARD .)
" Here he this instant stood ; I stand in his air ,-- but I ' m alone .
Now were even poor Pip here I could endure it , but he ' s missing .
Pip !
Pip !
Ding , dong , ding !
Who ' s seen Pip ?
He must be up here ; let ' s try the door .
What ?
neither lock , nor bolt , nor bar ; and yet there ' s no opening it .
It must be the spell ; he told me to stay here : Aye , and told me this screwed chair was mine .
Here , then , I ' ll seat me , against the transom , in the ship ' s full middle , all her keel and her three masts before me .
Here , our old sailors say , in their black seventy - fours great admirals sometimes sit at table , and lord it over rows of captains and lieutenants .
Ha !
what ' s this ?
epaulets !
epaulets !
the epaulets all come crowding !
Pass round the decanters ; glad to see ye ; fill up , monsieurs !
What an odd feeling , now , when a black boy ' s host to white men with gold lace upon their coats !-- Monsieurs , have ye seen one Pip ?-- a little negro lad , five feet high , hang - dog look , and cowardly !
Jumped from a whale - boat once ;-- seen him ?
No !
Well then , fill up again , captains , and let ' s drink shame upon all cowards !
I name no names .
Shame upon them !
Put one foot upon the table .
Shame upon all cowards .-- Hist !
above there , I hear ivory -- Oh , master !
master !
I am indeed down - hearted when you walk over me .
But here I ' ll stay , though this stern strikes rocks ; and they bulge through ; and oysters come to join me ."
CHAPTER 130
The Hat .
And now that at the proper time and place , after so long and wide a preliminary cruise , Ahab ,-- all other whaling waters swept -- seemed to have chased his foe into an ocean - fold , to slay him the more securely there ; now , that he found himself hard by the very latitude and longitude where his tormenting wound had been inflicted ; now that a vessel had been spoken which on the very day preceding had actually encountered Moby Dick ;-- and now that all his successive meetings with various ships contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference with which the white whale tore his hunters , whether sinning or sinned against ; now it was that there lurked a something in the old man ' s eyes , which it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see .
As the unsetting polar star , which through the livelong , arctic , six months ' night sustains its piercing , steady , central gaze ; so Ahab ' s purpose now fixedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew .
It domineered above them so , that all their bodings , doubts , misgivings , fears , were fain to hide beneath their souls , and not sprout forth a single spear or leaf .
In this foreshadowing interval too , all humor , forced or natural , vanished .
Stubb no more strove to raise a smile ; Starbuck no more strove to check one .
Alike , joy and sorrow , hope and fear , seemed ground to finest dust , and powdered , for the time , in the clamped mortar of Ahab ' s iron soul .
Like machines , they dumbly moved about the deck , ever conscious that the old man ' s despot eye was on them .
But did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours ; when he thought no glance but one was on him ; then you would have seen that even as Ahab ' s eyes so awed the crew ' s , the inscrutable Parsee ' s glance awed his ; or somehow , at least , in some wild way , at times affected it .
Such an added , gliding strangeness began to invest the thin Fedallah now ; such ceaseless shudderings shook him ; that the men looked dubious at him ; half uncertain , as it seemed , whether indeed he were a mortal substance , or else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen being ' s body .
And that shadow was always hovering there .
For not by night , even , had Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber , or go below .
He would stand still for hours : but never sat or leaned ; his wan but wondrous eyes did plainly say -- We two watchmen never rest .
Nor , at any time , by night or day could the mariners now step upon the deck , unless Ahab was before them ; either standing in his pivot - hole , or exactly pacing the planks between two undeviating limits ,-- the main - mast and the mizen ; or else they saw him standing in the cabin - scuttle ,-- his living foot advanced upon the deck , as if to step ; his hat slouched heavily over his eyes ; so that however motionless he stood , however the days and nights were added on , that he had not swung in his hammock ; yet hidden beneath that slouching hat , they could never tell unerringly whether , for all this , his eyes were really closed at times ; or whether he was still intently scanning them ; no matter , though he stood so in the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch , and the unheeded night - damp gathered in beads of dew upon that stone - carved coat and hat .
The clothes that the night had wet , the next day ' s sunshine dried upon him ; and so , day after day , and night after night ; he went no more beneath the planks ; whatever he wanted from the cabin that thing he sent for .
He ate in the same open air ; that is , his two only meals ,-- breakfast and dinner : supper he never touched ; nor reaped his beard ; which darkly grew all gnarled , as unearthed roots of trees blown over , which still grow idly on at naked base , though perished in the upper verdure .
But though his whole life was now become one watch on deck ; and though the Parsee ' s mystic watch was without intermission as his own ; yet these two never seemed to speak -- one man to the other -- unless at long intervals some passing unmomentous matter made it necessary .
Though such a potent spell seemed secretly to join the twain ; openly , and to the awe - struck crew , they seemed pole - like asunder .
If by day they chanced to speak one word ; by night , dumb men were both , so far as concerned the slightest verbal interchange .
At times , for longest hours , without a single hail , they stood far parted in the starlight ; Ahab in his scuttle , the Parsee by the mainmast ; but still fixedly gazing upon each other ; as if in the Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow , in Ahab the Parsee his abandoned substance .
And yet , somehow , did Ahab -- in his own proper self , as daily , hourly , and every instant , commandingly revealed to his subordinates ,-- Ahab seemed an independent lord ; the Parsee but his slave .
Still again both seemed yoked together , and an unseen tyrant driving them ; the lean shade siding the solid rib .
For be this Parsee what he may , all rib and keel was solid Ahab .
At the first faintest glimmering of the dawn , his iron voice was heard from aft ,--" Man the mast - heads !"
-- and all through the day , till after sunset and after twilight , the same voice every hour , at the striking of the helmsman ' s bell , was heard --" What d ' ye see ?-- sharp !
sharp !"
But when three or four days had slided by , after meeting the children - seeking Rachel ; and no spout had yet been seen ; the monomaniac old man seemed distrustful of his crew ' s fidelity ; at least , of nearly all except the Pagan harpooneers ; he seemed to doubt , even , whether Stubb and Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought .
But if these suspicions were really his , he sagaciously refrained from verbally expressing them , however his actions might seem to hint them .
" I will have the first sight of the whale myself ,"-- he said .
" Aye !
Ahab must have the doubloon !
and with his own hands he rigged a nest of basketed bowlines ; and sending a hand aloft , with a single sheaved block , to secure to the main - mast head , he received the two ends of the downward - reeved rope ; and attaching one to his basket prepared a pin for the other end , in order to fasten it at the rail .
This done , with that end yet in his hand and standing beside the pin , he looked round upon his crew , sweeping from one to the other ; pausing his glance long upon Daggoo , Queequeg , Tashtego ; but shunning Fedallah ; and then settling his firm relying eye upon the chief mate , said ,--" Take the rope , sir -- I give it into thy hands , Starbuck ."
Then arranging his person in the basket , he gave the word for them to hoist him to his perch , Starbuck being the one who secured the rope at last ; and afterwards stood near it .
And thus , with one hand clinging round the royal mast , Ahab gazed abroad upon the sea for miles and miles ,-- ahead , astern , this side , and that ,-- within the wide expanded circle commanded at so great a height .
When in working with his hands at some lofty almost isolated place in the rigging , which chances to afford no foothold , the sailor at sea is hoisted up to that spot , and sustained there by the rope ; under these circumstances , its fastened end on deck is always given in strict charge to some one man who has the special watch of it .
Because in such a wilderness of running rigging , whose various different relations aloft cannot always be infallibly discerned by what is seen of them at the deck ; and when the deck - ends of these ropes are being every few minutes cast down from the fastenings , it would be but a natural fatality , if , unprovided with a constant watchman , the hoisted sailor should by some carelessness of the crew be cast adrift and fall all swooping to the sea .
So Ahab ' s proceedings in this matter were not unusual ; the only strange thing about them seemed to be , that Starbuck , almost the one only man who had ever ventured to oppose him with anything in the slightest degree approaching to decision -- one of those too , whose faithfulness on the look - out he had seemed to doubt somewhat ;-- it was strange , that this was the very man he should select for his watchman ; freely giving his whole life into such an otherwise distrusted person ' s hands .
Now , the first time Ahab was perched aloft ; ere he had been there ten minutes ; one of those red - billed savage sea - hawks which so often fly incommodiously close round the manned mast - heads of whalemen in these latitudes ; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his head in a maze of untrackably swift circlings .
Then it darted a thousand feet straight up into the air ; then spiralized downwards , and went eddying again round his head .
But with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant horizon , Ahab seemed not to mark this wild bird ; nor , indeed , would any one else have marked it much , it being no uncommon circumstance ; only now almost the least heedful eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every sight .
" Your hat , your hat , sir !"
suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman , who being posted at the mizen - mast - head , stood directly behind Ahab , though somewhat lower than his level , and with a deep gulf of air dividing them .
But already the sable wing was before the old man ' s eyes ; the long hooked bill at his head : with a scream , the black hawk darted away with his prize .
An eagle flew thrice round Tarquin ' s head , removing his cap to replace it , and thereupon Tanaquil , his wife , declared that Tarquin would be king of Rome .
But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen accounted good .
Ahab ' s hat was never restored ; the wild hawk flew on and on with it ; far in advance of the prow : and at last disappeared ; while from the point of that disappearance , a minute black spot was dimly discerned , falling from that vast height into the sea .
CHAPTER 131
The Pequod Meets The Delight .
The intense Pequod sailed on ; the rolling waves and days went by ; the life - buoy - coffin still lightly swung ; and another ship , most miserably misnamed the Delight , was descried .
As she drew nigh , all eyes were fixed upon her broad beams , called shears , which , in some whaling - ships , cross the quarter - deck at the height of eight or nine feet ; serving to carry the spare , unrigged , or disabled boats .
Upon the stranger ' s shears were beheld the shattered , white ribs , and some few splintered planks , of what had once been a whale - boat ; but you now saw through this wreck , as plainly as you see through the peeled , half - unhinged , and bleaching skeleton of a horse .
" Hast seen the White Whale ?"
" Look !"
replied the hollow - cheeked captain from his taffrail ; and with his trumpet he pointed to the wreck .
" Hast killed him ?"
" The harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that ," answered the other , sadly glancing upon a rounded hammock on the deck , whose gathered sides some noiseless sailors were busy in sewing together .
" Not forged !"
and snatching Perth ' s levelled iron from the crotch , Ahab held it out , exclaiming --" Look ye , Nantucketer ; here in this hand I hold his death !
Tempered in blood , and tempered by lightning are these barbs ; and I swear to temper them triply in that hot place behind the fin , where the White Whale most feels his accursed life !"
" Then God keep thee , old man -- see ' st thou that "-- pointing to the hammock --" I bury but one of five stout men , who were alive only yesterday ; but were dead ere night .
Only THAT one I bury ; the rest were buried before they died ; you sail upon their tomb ."
Then turning to his crew --" Are ye ready there ?
place the plank then on the rail , and lift the body ; so , then -- Oh !
God "-- advancing towards the hammock with uplifted hands --" may the resurrection and the life --"
" Brace forward !
Up helm !"
cried Ahab like lightning to his men .
But the suddenly started Pequod was not quick enough to escape the sound of the splash that the corpse soon made as it struck the sea ; not so quick , indeed , but that some of the flying bubbles might have sprinkled her hull with their ghostly baptism .
As Ahab now glided from the dejected Delight , the strange life - buoy hanging at the Pequod ' s stern came into conspicuous relief .
" Ha !
yonder !
look yonder , men !"
cried a foreboding voice in her wake .
" In vain , oh , ye strangers , ye fly our sad burial ; ye but turn us your taffrail to show us your coffin !"
CHAPTER 132
The Symphony .
It was a clear steel - blue day .
The firmaments of air and sea were hardly separable in that all - pervading azure ; only , the pensive air was transparently pure and soft , with a woman ' s look , and the robust and man - like sea heaved with long , strong , lingering swells , as Samson ' s chest in his sleep .
Hither , and thither , on high , glided the snow - white wings of small , unspeckled birds ; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air ; but to and fro in the deeps , far down in the bottomless blue , rushed mighty leviathans , sword - fish , and sharks ; and these were the strong , troubled , murderous thinkings of the masculine sea .
But though thus contrasting within , the contrast was only in shades and shadows without ; those two seemed one ; it was only the sex , as it were , that distinguished them .
Aloft , like a royal czar and king , the sun seemed giving this gentle air to this bold and rolling sea ; even as bride to groom .
And at the girdling line of the horizon , a soft and tremulous motion -- most seen here at the Equator -- denoted the fond , throbbing trust , the loving alarms , with which the poor bride gave her bosom away .
Tied up and twisted ; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles ; haggardly firm and unyielding ; his eyes glowing like coals , that still glow in the ashes of ruin ; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the morn ; lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl ' s forehead of heaven .
Oh , immortal infancy , and innocency of the azure !
Invisible winged creatures that frolic all round us !
Sweet childhood of air and sky !
how oblivious were ye of old Ahab ' s close - coiled woe !
But so have I seen little Miriam and Martha , laughing - eyed elves , heedlessly gambol around their old sire ; sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew on the marge of that burnt - out crater of his brain .
Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle , Ahab leaned over the side and watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze , the more and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity .
But the lovely aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel , for a moment , the cankerous thing in his soul .
That glad , happy air , that winsome sky , did at last stroke and caress him ; the step - mother world , so long cruel -- forbidding -- now threw affectionate arms round his stubborn neck , and did seem to joyously sob over him , as if over one , that however wilful and erring , she could yet find it in her heart to save and to bless .
From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear into the sea ; nor did all the Pacific contain such wealth as that one wee drop .
Starbuck saw the old man ; saw him , how he heavily leaned over the side ; and he seemed to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbing that stole out of the centre of the serenity around .
Careful not to touch him , or be noticed by him , he yet drew near to him , and stood there .
Ahab turned .
" Starbuck !"
" Sir ."
" Oh , Starbuck !
it is a mild , mild wind , and a mild looking sky .
On such a day -- very much such a sweetness as this -- I struck my first whale -- a boy - harpooneer of eighteen !
Forty -- forty -- forty years ago !-- ago !
Forty years of continual whaling !
forty years of privation , and peril , and storm - time !
forty years on the pitiless sea !
for forty years has Ahab forsaken the peaceful land , for forty years to make war on the horrors of the deep !
Aye and yes , Starbuck , out of those forty years I have not spent three ashore .
When I think of this life I have led ; the desolation of solitude it has been ; the masoned , walled - town of a Captain ' s exclusiveness , which admits but small entrance to any sympathy from the green country without -- oh , weariness !
heaviness !
Guinea - coast slavery of solitary command !-- when I think of all this ; only half - suspected , not so keenly known to me before -- and how for forty years I have fed upon dry salted fare -- fit emblem of the dry nourishment of my soil !-- when the poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to his daily hand , and broken the world ' s fresh bread to my mouldy crusts -- away , whole oceans away , from that young girl - wife I wedded past fifty , and sailed for Cape Horn the next day , leaving but one dent in my marriage pillow -- wife ?
wife ?-- rather a widow with her husband alive !
Aye , I widowed that poor girl when I married her , Starbuck ; and then , the madness , the frenzy , the boiling blood and the smoking brow , with which , for a thousand lowerings old Ahab has furiously , foamingly chased his prey -- more a demon than a man !-- aye , aye !
what a forty years ' fool -- fool -- old fool , has old Ahab been !
Why this strife of the chase ?
why weary , and palsy the arm at the oar , and the iron , and the lance ?
how the richer or better is Ahab now ?
Behold .
Oh , Starbuck !
is it not hard , that with this weary load I bear , one poor leg should have been snatched from under me ?
Here , brush this old hair aside ; it blinds me , that I seem to weep .
Locks so grey did never grow but from out some ashes !
But do I look very old , so very , very old , Starbuck ?
I feel deadly faint , bowed , and humped , as though I were Adam , staggering beneath the piled centuries since Paradise .
God !
God !
God !-- crack my heart !-- stave my brain !-- mockery !
mockery !
bitter , biting mockery of grey hairs , have I lived enough joy to wear ye ; and seem and feel thus intolerably old ?
Close !
stand close to me , Starbuck ; let me look into a human eye ; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky ; better than to gaze upon God .
By the green land ; by the bright hearth - stone !
this is the magic glass , man ; I see my wife and my child in thine eye .
No , no ; stay on board , on board !-- lower not when I do ; when branded Ahab gives chase to Moby Dick .
That hazard shall not be thine .
No , no !
not with the far away home I see in that eye !"
" Oh , my Captain !
my Captain !
noble soul !
grand old heart , after all !
why should any one give chase to that hated fish !
Away with me !
let us fly these deadly waters !
let us home !
Wife and child , too , are Starbuck ' s -- wife and child of his brotherly , sisterly , play - fellow youth ; even as thine , sir , are the wife and child of thy loving , longing , paternal old age !
Away !
let us away !-- this instant let me alter the course !
How cheerily , how hilariously , O my Captain , would we bowl on our way to see old Nantucket again !
I think , sir , they have some such mild blue days , even as this , in Nantucket ."
" They have , they have .
I have seen them -- some summer days in the morning .
About this time -- yes , it is his noon nap now -- the boy vivaciously wakes ; sits up in bed ; and his mother tells him of me , of cannibal old me ; how I am abroad upon the deep , but will yet come back to dance him again ."
"' Tis my Mary , my Mary herself !
She promised that my boy , every morning , should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse of his father ' s sail !
Yes , yes !
no more !
it is done !
we head for Nantucket !
Come , my Captain , study out the course , and let us away !
See , see !
the boy ' s face from the window !
the boy ' s hand on the hill !"
But Ahab ' s glance was averted ; like a blighted fruit tree he shook , and cast his last , cindered apple to the soil .
" What is it , what nameless , inscrutable , unearthly thing is it ; what cozening , hidden lord and master , and cruel , remorseless emperor commands me ; that against all natural lovings and longings , I so keep pushing , and crowding , and jamming myself on all the time ; recklessly making me ready to do what in my own proper , natural heart , I durst not so much as dare ?
Is Ahab , Ahab ?
Is it I , God , or who , that lifts this arm ?
But if the great sun move not of himself ; but is as an errand - boy in heaven ; nor one single star can revolve , but by some invisible power ; how then can this one small heart beat ; this one small brain think thoughts ; unless God does that beating , does that thinking , does that living , and not I .
By heaven , man , we are turned round and round in this world , like yonder windlass , and Fate is the handspike .
And all the time , lo !
that smiling sky , and this unsounded sea !
Look !
see yon Albicore !
who put it into him to chase and fang that flying - fish ?
Where do murderers go , man !
Who ' s to doom , when the judge himself is dragged to the bar ?
But it is a mild , mild wind , and a mild looking sky ; and the air smells now , as if it blew from a far - away meadow ; they have been making hay somewhere under the slopes of the Andes , Starbuck , and the mowers are sleeping among the new - mown hay .
Sleeping ?
Aye , toil we how we may , we all sleep at last on the field .
Sleep ?
Aye , and rust amid greenness ; as last year ' s scythes flung down , and left in the half - cut swaths -- Starbuck !"
But blanched to a corpse ' s hue with despair , the Mate had stolen away .
Ahab crossed the deck to gaze over on the other side ; but started at two reflected , fixed eyes in the water there .
Fedallah was motionlessly leaning over the same rail .
CHAPTER 133
The Chase -- First Day .
That night , in the mid - watch , when the old man -- as his wont at intervals -- stepped forth from the scuttle in which he leaned , and went to his pivot - hole , he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely , snuffing up the sea air as a sagacious ship ' s dog will , in drawing nigh to some barbarous isle .
He declared that a whale must be near .
Soon that peculiar odor , sometimes to a great distance given forth by the living sperm whale , was palpable to all the watch ; nor was any mariner surprised when , after inspecting the compass , and then the dog - vane , and then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as possible , Ahab rapidly ordered the ship ' s course to be slightly altered , and the sail to be shortened .
The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently vindicated at daybreak , by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and lengthwise ahead , smooth as oil , and resembling in the pleated watery wrinkles bordering it , the polished metallic - like marks of some swift tide - rip , at the mouth of a deep , rapid stream .
" Man the mast - heads !
Call all hands !"
Thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the forecastle deck , Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that they seemed to exhale from the scuttle , so instantaneously did they appear with their clothes in their hands .
" What d ' ye see ?"
cried Ahab , flattening his face to the sky .
" Nothing , nothing sir !"
was the sound hailing down in reply .
" T ' gallant sails !-- stunsails !
alow and aloft , and on both sides !"
All sail being set , he now cast loose the life - line , reserved for swaying him to the main royal - mast head ; and in a few moments they were hoisting him thither , when , while but two thirds of the way aloft , and while peering ahead through the horizontal vacancy between the main - top - sail and top - gallant - sail , he raised a gull - like cry in the air .
" There she blows !-- there she blows !
A hump like a snow - hill !
It is Moby Dick !"
Fired by the cry which seemed simultaneously taken up by the three look - outs , the men on deck rushed to the rigging to behold the famous whale they had so long been pursuing .
Ahab had now gained his final perch , some feet above the other look - outs , Tashtego standing just beneath him on the cap of the top - gallant - mast , so that the Indian ' s head was almost on a level with Ahab ' s heel .
From this height the whale was now seen some mile or so ahead , at every roll of the sea revealing his high sparkling hump , and regularly jetting his silent spout into the air .
To the credulous mariners it seemed the same silent spout they had so long ago beheld in the moonlit Atlantic and Indian Oceans .
" And did none of ye see it before ?"
cried Ahab , hailing the perched men all around him .
" I saw him almost that same instant , sir , that Captain Ahab did , and I cried out ," said Tashtego .
" Not the same instant ; not the same -- no , the doubloon is mine , Fate reserved the doubloon for me .
I only ; none of ye could have raised the White Whale first .
There she blows !-- there she blows !-- there she blows !
There again !-- there again !"
he cried , in long - drawn , lingering , methodic tones , attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale ' s visible jets .
" He ' s going to sound !
In stunsails !
Down top - gallant - sails !
Stand by three boats .
Mr . Starbuck , remember , stay on board , and keep the ship .
Helm there !
Luff , luff a point !
So ; steady , man , steady !
There go flukes !
No , no ; only black water !
All ready the boats there ?
Stand by , stand by !
Lower me , Mr . Starbuck ; lower , lower ,-- quick , quicker !"
and he slid through the air to the deck .
" He is heading straight to leeward , sir ," cried Stubb , " right away from us ; cannot have seen the ship yet ."
" Be dumb , man !
Stand by the braces !
Hard down the helm !-- brace up !
Shiver her !-- shiver her !-- So ; well that !
Boats , boats !"
Soon all the boats but Starbuck ' s were dropped ; all the boat - sails set -- all the paddles plying ; with rippling swiftness , shooting to leeward ; and Ahab heading the onset .
A pale , death - glimmer lit up Fedallah ' s sunken eyes ; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth .
Like noiseless nautilus shells , their light prows sped through the sea ; but only slowly they neared the foe .
As they neared him , the ocean grew still more smooth ; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves ; seemed a noon - meadow , so serenely it spread .
At length the breathless hunter came so nigh his seemingly unsuspecting prey , that his entire dazzling hump was distinctly visible , sliding along the sea as if an isolated thing , and continually set in a revolving ring of finest , fleecy , greenish foam .
He saw the vast , involved wrinkles of the slightly projecting head beyond .
Before it , far out on the soft Turkish - rugged waters , went the glistening white shadow from his broad , milky forehead , a musical rippling playfully accompanying the shade ; and behind , the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving valley of his steady wake ; and on either hand bright bubbles arose and danced by his side .
But these were broken again by the light toes of hundreds of gay fowl softly feathering the sea , alternate with their fitful flight ; and like to some flag - staff rising from the painted hull of an argosy , the tall but shattered pole of a recent lance projected from the white whale ' s back ; and at intervals one of the cloud of soft - toed fowls hovering , and to and fro skimming like a canopy over the fish , silently perched and rocked on this pole , the long tail feathers streaming like pennons .
A gentle joyousness -- a mighty mildness of repose in swiftness , invested the gliding whale .
Not the white bull Jupiter swimming away with ravished Europa clinging to his graceful horns ; his lovely , leering eyes sideways intent upon the maid ; with smooth bewitching fleetness , rippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete ; not Jove , not that great majesty Supreme !
did surpass the glorified White Whale as he so divinely swam .
On each soft side -- coincident with the parted swell , that but once leaving him , then flowed so wide away -- on each bright side , the whale shed off enticings .
No wonder there had been some among the hunters who namelessly transported and allured by all this serenity , had ventured to assail it ; but had fatally found that quietude but the vesture of tornadoes .
Yet calm , enticing calm , oh , whale !
thou glidest on , to all who for the first time eye thee , no matter how many in that same way thou may ' st have bejuggled and destroyed before .
And thus , through the serene tranquillities of the tropical sea , among waves whose hand - clappings were suspended by exceeding rapture , Moby Dick moved on , still withholding from sight the full terrors of his submerged trunk , entirely hiding the wrenched hideousness of his jaw .
But soon the fore part of him slowly rose from the water ; for an instant his whole marbleized body formed a high arch , like Virginia ' s Natural Bridge , and warningly waving his bannered flukes in the air , the grand god revealed himself , sounded , and went out of sight .
Hoveringly halting , and dipping on the wing , the white sea - fowls longingly lingered over the agitated pool that he left .
With oars apeak , and paddles down , the sheets of their sails adrift , the three boats now stilly floated , awaiting Moby Dick ' s reappearance .
" An hour ," said Ahab , standing rooted in his boat ' s stern ; and he gazed beyond the whale ' s place , towards the dim blue spaces and wide wooing vacancies to leeward .
It was only an instant ; for again his eyes seemed whirling round in his head as he swept the watery circle .
The breeze now freshened ; the sea began to swell .
" The birds !-- the birds !"
cried Tashtego .
In long Indian file , as when herons take wing , the white birds were now all flying towards Ahab ' s boat ; and when within a few yards began fluttering over the water there , wheeling round and round , with joyous , expectant cries .
Their vision was keener than man ' s ; Ahab could discover no sign in the sea .
But suddenly as he peered down and down into its depths , he profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a white weasel , with wonderful celerity uprising , and magnifying as it rose , till it turned , and then there were plainly revealed two long crooked rows of white , glistening teeth , floating up from the undiscoverable bottom .
It was Moby Dick ' s open mouth and scrolled jaw ; his vast , shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea .
The glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open - doored marble tomb ; and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar , Ahab whirled the craft aside from this tremendous apparition .
Then , calling upon Fedallah to change places with him , went forward to the bows , and seizing Perth ' s harpoon , commanded his crew to grasp their oars and stand by to stern .
Now , by reason of this timely spinning round the boat upon its axis , its bow , by anticipation , was made to face the whale ' s head while yet under water .
But as if perceiving this stratagem , Moby Dick , with that malicious intelligence ascribed to him , sidelingly transplanted himself , as it were , in an instant , shooting his pleated head lengthwise beneath the boat .
Through and through ; through every plank and each rib , it thrilled for an instant , the whale obliquely lying on his back , in the manner of a biting shark , slowly and feelingly taking its bows full within his mouth , so that the long , narrow , scrolled lower jaw curled high up into the open air , and one of the teeth caught in a row - lock .
The bluish pearl - white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of Ahab ' s head , and reached higher than that .
In this attitude the White Whale now shook the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse .
With unastonished eyes Fedallah gazed , and crossed his arms ; but the tiger - yellow crew were tumbling over each other ' s heads to gain the uttermost stern .
And now , while both elastic gunwales were springing in and out , as the whale dallied with the doomed craft in this devilish way ; and from his body being submerged beneath the boat , he could not be darted at from the bows , for the bows were almost inside of him , as it were ; and while the other boats involuntarily paused , as before a quick crisis impossible to withstand , then it was that monomaniac Ahab , furious with this tantalizing vicinity of his foe , which placed him all alive and helpless in the very jaws he hated ; frenzied with all this , he seized the long bone with his naked hands , and wildly strove to wrench it from its gripe .
As now he thus vainly strove , the jaw slipped from him ; the frail gunwales bent in , collapsed , and snapped , as both jaws , like an enormous shears , sliding further aft , bit the craft completely in twain , and locked themselves fast again in the sea , midway between the two floating wrecks .
These floated aside , the broken ends drooping , the crew at the stern - wreck clinging to the gunwales , and striving to hold fast to the oars to lash them across .
At that preluding moment , ere the boat was yet snapped , Ahab , the first to perceive the whale ' s intent , by the crafty upraising of his head , a movement that loosed his hold for the time ; at that moment his hand had made one final effort to push the boat out of the bite .
But only slipping further into the whale ' s mouth , and tilting over sideways as it slipped , the boat had shaken off his hold on the jaw ; spilled him out of it , as he leaned to the push ; and so he fell flat - faced upon the sea .
Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey , Moby Dick now lay at a little distance , vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in the billows ; and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled body ; so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose -- some twenty or more feet out of the water -- the now rising swells , with all their confluent waves , dazzlingly broke against it ; vindictively tossing their shivered spray still higher into the air .
* So , in a gale , the but half baffled Channel billows only recoil from the base of the Eddystone , triumphantly to overleap its summit with their scud .
* This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale .
It receives its designation ( pitchpoling ) from its being likened to that preliminary up - and - down poise of the whale - lance , in the exercise called pitchpoling , previously described .
By this motion the whale must best and most comprehensively view whatever objects may be encircling him .
But soon resuming his horizontal attitude , Moby Dick swam swiftly round and round the wrecked crew ; sideways churning the water in his vengeful wake , as if lashing himself up to still another and more deadly assault .
The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him , as the blood of grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus ' s elephants in the book of Maccabees .
Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the whale ' s insolent tail , and too much of a cripple to swim ,-- though he could still keep afloat , even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that ; helpless Ahab ' s head was seen , like a tossed bubble which the least chance shock might burst .
From the boat ' s fragmentary stern , Fedallah incuriously and mildly eyed him ; the clinging crew , at the other drifting end , could not succor him ; more than enough was it for them to look to themselves .
For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale ' s aspect , and so planetarily swift the ever - contracting circles he made , that he seemed horizontally swooping upon them .
And though the other boats , unharmed , still hovered hard by ; still they dared not pull into the eddy to strike , lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction of the jeopardized castaways , Ahab and all ; nor in that case could they themselves hope to escape .
With straining eyes , then , they remained on the outer edge of the direful zone , whose centre had now become the old man ' s head .
Meantime , from the beginning all this had been descried from the ship ' s mast heads ; and squaring her yards , she had borne down upon the scene ; and was now so nigh , that Ahab in the water hailed her !--" Sail on the "-- but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick , and whelmed him for the time .
But struggling out of it again , and chancing to rise on a towering crest , he shouted ,--" Sail on the whale !-- Drive him off !"
The Pequod ' s prows were pointed ; and breaking up the charmed circle , she effectually parted the white whale from his victim .
As he sullenly swam off , the boats flew to the rescue .
Dragged into Stubb ' s boat with blood - shot , blinded eyes , the white brine caking in his wrinkles ; the long tension of Ahab ' s bodily strength did crack , and helplessly he yielded to his body ' s doom : for a time , lying all crushed in the bottom of Stubb ' s boat , like one trodden under foot of herds of elephants .
Far inland , nameless wails came from him , as desolate sounds from out ravines .
But this intensity of his physical prostration did but so much the more abbreviate it .
In an instant ' s compass , great hearts sometimes condense to one deep pang , the sum total of those shallow pains kindly diffused through feebler men ' s whole lives .
And so , such hearts , though summary in each one suffering ; still , if the gods decree it , in their life - time aggregate a whole age of woe , wholly made up of instantaneous intensities ; for even in their pointless centres , those noble natures contain the entire circumferences of inferior souls .
" The harpoon ," said Ahab , half way rising , and draggingly leaning on one bended arm --" is it safe ?"
" Aye , sir , for it was not darted ; this is it ," said Stubb , showing it .
" Lay it before me ;-- any missing men ?"
" One , two , three , four , five ;-- there were five oars , sir , and here are five men ."
" That ' s good .-- Help me , man ; I wish to stand .
So , so , I see him !
there !
there !
going to leeward still ; what a leaping spout !-- Hands off from me !
The eternal sap runs up in Ahab ' s bones again !
Set the sail ; out oars ; the helm !"
It is often the case that when a boat is stove , its crew , being picked up by another boat , help to work that second boat ; and the chase is thus continued with what is called double - banked oars .
It was thus now .
But the added power of the boat did not equal the added power of the whale , for he seemed to have treble - banked his every fin ; swimming with a velocity which plainly showed , that if now , under these circumstances , pushed on , the chase would prove an indefinitely prolonged , if not a hopeless one ; nor could any crew endure for so long a period , such an unintermitted , intense straining at the oar ; a thing barely tolerable only in some one brief vicissitude .
The ship itself , then , as it sometimes happens , offered the most promising intermediate means of overtaking the chase .
Accordingly , the boats now made for her , and were soon swayed up to their cranes -- the two parts of the wrecked boat having been previously secured by her -- and then hoisting everything to her side , and stacking her canvas high up , and sideways outstretching it with stun - sails , like the double - jointed wings of an albatross ; the Pequod bore down in the leeward wake of Moby - Dick .
At the well known , methodic intervals , the whale ' s glittering spout was regularly announced from the manned mast - heads ; and when he would be reported as just gone down , Ahab would take the time , and then pacing the deck , binnacle - watch in hand , so soon as the last second of the allotted hour expired , his voice was heard .--" Whose is the doubloon now ?
D ' ye see him ?"
and if the reply was , No , sir !
straightway he commanded them to lift him to his perch .
In this way the day wore on ; Ahab , now aloft and motionless ; anon , unrestingly pacing the planks .
As he was thus walking , uttering no sound , except to hail the men aloft , or to bid them hoist a sail still higher , or to spread one to a still greater breadth -- thus to and fro pacing , beneath his slouched hat , at every turn he passed his own wrecked boat , which had been dropped upon the quarter - deck , and lay there reversed ; broken bow to shattered stern .
At last he paused before it ; and as in an already over - clouded sky fresh troops of clouds will sometimes sail across , so over the old man ' s face there now stole some such added gloom as this .
Stubb saw him pause ; and perhaps intending , not vainly , though , to evince his own unabated fortitude , and thus keep up a valiant place in his Captain ' s mind , he advanced , and eyeing the wreck exclaimed --" The thistle the ass refused ; it pricked his mouth too keenly , sir ; ha !
ha !"
" What soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck ?
Man , man !
did I not know thee brave as fearless fire ( and as mechanical ) I could swear thou wert a poltroon .
Groan nor laugh should be heard before a wreck ."
" Aye , sir ," said Starbuck drawing near , "' tis a solemn sight ; an omen , and an ill one ."
" Omen ?
omen ?-- the dictionary !
If the gods think to speak outright to man , they will honourably speak outright ; not shake their heads , and give an old wives ' darkling hint .-- Begone !
Ye two are the opposite poles of one thing ; Starbuck is Stubb reversed , and Stubb is Starbuck ; and ye two are all mankind ; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of the peopled earth , nor gods nor men his neighbors !
Cold , cold -- I shiver !-- How now ?
Aloft there !
D ' ye see him ?
Sing out for every spout , though he spout ten times a second !"
The day was nearly done ; only the hem of his golden robe was rustling .
Soon , it was almost dark , but the look - out men still remained unset .
" Can ' t see the spout now , sir ;-- too dark "-- cried a voice from the air .
" How heading when last seen ?"
" As before , sir ,-- straight to leeward ."
" Good !
he will travel slower now ' tis night .
Down royals and top - gallant stun - sails , Mr . Starbuck .
We must not run over him before morning ; he ' s making a passage now , and may heave - to a while .
Helm there !
keep her full before the wind !-- Aloft !
come down !-- Mr .
Stubb , send a fresh hand to the fore - mast head , and see it manned till morning ."
-- Then advancing towards the doubloon in the main - mast --" Men , this gold is mine , for I earned it ; but I shall let it abide here till the White Whale is dead ; and then , whosoever of ye first raises him , upon the day he shall be killed , this gold is that man ' s ; and if on that day I shall again raise him , then , ten times its sum shall be divided among all of ye !
Away now !-- the deck is thine , sir !"
And so saying , he placed himself half way within the scuttle , and slouching his hat , stood there till dawn , except when at intervals rousing himself to see how the night wore on .
CHAPTER 134
The Chase -- Second Day .
At day - break , the three mast - heads were punctually manned afresh .
" D ' ye see him ?"
cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the light to spread .
" See nothing , sir ."
" Turn up all hands and make sail !
he travels faster than I thought for ;-- the top - gallant sails !-- aye , they should have been kept on her all night .
But no matter --' tis but resting for the rush ."
Here be it said , that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular whale , continued through day into night , and through night into day , is a thing by no means unprecedented in the South sea fishery .
For such is the wonderful skill , prescience of experience , and invincible confidence acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucket commanders ; that from the simple observation of a whale when last descried , they will , under certain given circumstances , pretty accurately foretell both the direction in which he will continue to swim for a time , while out of sight , as well as his probable rate of progression during that period .
And , in these cases , somewhat as a pilot , when about losing sight of a coast , whose general trending he well knows , and which he desires shortly to return to again , but at some further point ; like as this pilot stands by his compass , and takes the precise bearing of the cape at present visible , in order the more certainly to hit aright the remote , unseen headland , eventually to be visited : so does the fisherman , at his compass , with the whale ; for after being chased , and diligently marked , through several hours of daylight , then , when night obscures the fish , the creature ' s future wake through the darkness is almost as established to the sagacious mind of the hunter , as the pilot ' s coast is to him .
So that to this hunter ' s wondrous skill , the proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in water , a wake , is to all desired purposes well nigh as reliable as the steadfast land .
And as the mighty iron Leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarly known in its every pace , that , with watches in their hands , men time his rate as doctors that of a baby ' s pulse ; and lightly say of it , the up train or the down train will reach such or such a spot , at such or such an hour ; even so , almost , there are occasions when these Nantucketers time that other Leviathan of the deep , according to the observed humor of his speed ; and say to themselves , so many hours hence this whale will have gone two hundred miles , will have about reached this or that degree of latitude or longitude .
But to render this acuteness at all successful in the end , the wind and the sea must be the whaleman ' s allies ; for of what present avail to the becalmed or windbound mariner is the skill that assures him he is exactly ninety - three leagues and a quarter from his port ?
Inferable from these statements , are many collateral subtile matters touching the chase of whales .
The ship tore on ; leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a cannon - ball , missent , becomes a plough - share and turns up the level field .
" By salt and hemp !"
cried Stubb , " but this swift motion of the deck creeps up one ' s legs and tingles at the heart .
This ship and I are two brave fellows !-- Ha , ha !
Some one take me up , and launch me , spine - wise , on the sea ,-- for by live - oaks !
my spine ' s a keel .
Ha , ha !
we go the gait that leaves no dust behind !"
" There she blows -- she blows !-- she blows !-- right ahead !"
was now the mast - head cry .
" Aye , aye !"
cried Stubb , " I knew it -- ye can ' t escape -- blow on and split your spout , O whale !
the mad fiend himself is after ye !
blow your trump -- blister your lungs !-- Ahab will dam off your blood , as a miller shuts his watergate upon the stream !"
And Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew .
The frenzies of the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up , like old wine worked anew .
Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might have felt before ; these were not only now kept out of sight through the growing awe of Ahab , but they were broken up , and on all sides routed , as timid prairie hares that scatter before the bounding bison .
The hand of Fate had snatched all their souls ; and by the stirring perils of the previous day ; the rack of the past night ' s suspense ; the fixed , unfearing , blind , reckless way in which their wild craft went plunging towards its flying mark ; by all these things , their hearts were bowled along .
The wind that made great bellies of their sails , and rushed the vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible ; this seemed the symbol of that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race .
They were one man , not thirty .
For as the one ship that held them all ; though it was put together of all contrasting things -- oak , and maple , and pine wood ; iron , and pitch , and hemp -- yet all these ran into each other in the one concrete hull , which shot on its way , both balanced and directed by the long central keel ; even so , all the individualities of the crew , this man ' s valor , that man ' s fear ; guilt and guiltiness , all varieties were welded into oneness , and were all directed to that fatal goal which Ahab their one lord and keel did point to .
The rigging lived .
The mast - heads , like the tops of tall palms , were outspreadingly tufted with arms and legs .
Clinging to a spar with one hand , some reached forth the other with impatient wavings ; others , shading their eyes from the vivid sunlight , sat far out on the rocking yards ; all the spars in full bearing of mortals , ready and ripe for their fate .
Ah !
how they still strove through that infinite blueness to seek out the thing that might destroy them !
" Why sing ye not out for him , if ye see him ?"
cried Ahab , when , after the lapse of some minutes since the first cry , no more had been heard .
" Sway me up , men ; ye have been deceived ; not Moby Dick casts one odd jet that way , and then disappears ."
It was even so ; in their headlong eagerness , the men had mistaken some other thing for the whale - spout , as the event itself soon proved ; for hardly had Ahab reached his perch ; hardly was the rope belayed to its pin on deck , when he struck the key - note to an orchestra , that made the air vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles .
The triumphant halloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard , as -- much nearer to the ship than the place of the imaginary jet , less than a mile ahead -- Moby Dick bodily burst into view !
For not by any calm and indolent spoutings ; not by the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head , did the White Whale now reveal his vicinity ; but by the far more wondrous phenomenon of breaching .
Rising with his utmost velocity from the furthest depths , the Sperm Whale thus booms his entire bulk into the pure element of air , and piling up a mountain of dazzling foam , shows his place to the distance of seven miles and more .
In those moments , the torn , enraged waves he shakes off , seem his mane ; in some cases , this breaching is his act of defiance .
" There she breaches !
there she breaches !"
was the cry , as in his immeasurable bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon - like to Heaven .
So suddenly seen in the blue plain of the sea , and relieved against the still bluer margin of the sky , the spray that he raised , for the moment , intolerably glittered and glared like a glacier ; and stood there gradually fading and fading away from its first sparkling intensity , to the dim mistiness of an advancing shower in a vale .
" Aye , breach your last to the sun , Moby Dick !"
cried Ahab , " thy hour and thy harpoon are at hand !-- Down !
down all of ye , but one man at the fore .
The boats !-- stand by !"
Unmindful of the tedious rope - ladders of the shrouds , the men , like shooting stars , slid to the deck , by the isolated backstays and halyards ; while Ahab , less dartingly , but still rapidly was dropped from his perch .
" Lower away ," he cried , so soon as he had reached his boat -- a spare one , rigged the afternoon previous .
" Mr . Starbuck , the ship is thine -- keep away from the boats , but keep near them .
Lower , all !"
As if to strike a quick terror into them , by this time being the first assailant himself , Moby Dick had turned , and was now coming for the three crews .
Ahab ' s boat was central ; and cheering his men , he told them he would take the whale head - and - head ,-- that is , pull straight up to his forehead ,-- a not uncommon thing ; for when within a certain limit , such a course excludes the coming onset from the whale ' s sidelong vision .
But ere that close limit was gained , and while yet all three boats were plain as the ship ' s three masts to his eye ; the White Whale churning himself into furious speed , almost in an instant as it were , rushing among the boats with open jaws , and a lashing tail , offered appalling battle on every side ; and heedless of the irons darted at him from every boat , seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank of which those boats were made .
But skilfully manoeuvred , incessantly wheeling like trained chargers in the field ; the boats for a while eluded him ; though , at times , but by a plank ' s breadth ; while all the time , Ahab ' s unearthly slogan tore every other cry but his to shreds .
But at last in his untraceable evolutions , the White Whale so crossed and recrossed , and in a thousand ways entangled the slack of the three lines now fast to him , that they foreshortened , and , of themselves , warped the devoted boats towards the planted irons in him ; though now for a moment the whale drew aside a little , as if to rally for a more tremendous charge .
Seizing that opportunity , Ahab first paid out more line : and then was rapidly hauling and jerking in upon it again -- hoping that way to disencumber it of some snarls -- when lo !-- a sight more savage than the embattled teeth of sharks !
Caught and twisted -- corkscrewed in the mazes of the line , loose harpoons and lances , with all their bristling barbs and points , came flashing and dripping up to the chocks in the bows of Ahab ' s boat .
Only one thing could be done .
Seizing the boat - knife , he critically reached within -- through -- and then , without -- the rays of steel ; dragged in the line beyond , passed it , inboard , to the bowsman , and then , twice sundering the rope near the chocks -- dropped the intercepted fagot of steel into the sea ; and was all fast again .
That instant , the White Whale made a sudden rush among the remaining tangles of the other lines ; by so doing , irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and Flask towards his flukes ; dashed them together like two rolling husks on a surf - beaten beach , and then , diving down into the sea , disappeared in a boiling maelstrom , in which , for a space , the odorous cedar chips of the wrecks danced round and round , like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly stirred bowl of punch .
While the two crews were yet circling in the waters , reaching out after the revolving line - tubs , oars , and other floating furniture , while aslope little Flask bobbed up and down like an empty vial , twitching his legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks ; and Stubb was lustily singing out for some one to ladle him up ; and while the old man ' s line -- now parting -- admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to rescue whom he could ;-- in that wild simultaneousness of a thousand concreted perils ,-- Ahab ' s yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards Heaven by invisible wires ,-- as , arrow - like , shooting perpendicularly from the sea , the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its bottom , and sent it , turning over and over , into the air ; till it fell again -- gunwale downwards -- and Ahab and his men struggled out from under it , like seals from a sea - side cave .
The first uprising momentum of the whale -- modifying its direction as he struck the surface -- involuntarily launched him along it , to a little distance from the centre of the destruction he had made ; and with his back to it , he now lay for a moment slowly feeling with his flukes from side to side ; and whenever a stray oar , bit of plank , the least chip or crumb of the boats touched his skin , his tail swiftly drew back , and came sideways smiting the sea .
But soon , as if satisfied that his work for that time was done , he pushed his pleated forehead through the ocean , and trailing after him the intertangled lines , continued his leeward way at a traveller ' s methodic pace .
As before , the attentive ship having descried the whole fight , again came bearing down to the rescue , and dropping a boat , picked up the floating mariners , tubs , oars , and whatever else could be caught at , and safely landed them on her decks .
Some sprained shoulders , wrists , and ankles ; livid contusions ; wrenched harpoons and lances ; inextricable intricacies of rope ; shattered oars and planks ; all these were there ; but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen any one .
As with Fedallah the day before , so Ahab was now found grimly clinging to his boat ' s broken half , which afforded a comparatively easy float ; nor did it so exhaust him as the previous day ' s mishap .
But when he was helped to the deck , all eyes were fastened upon him ; as instead of standing by himself he still half - hung upon the shoulder of Starbuck , who had thus far been the foremost to assist him .
His ivory leg had been snapped off , leaving but one short sharp splinter .
" Aye , aye , Starbuck , ' tis sweet to lean sometimes , be the leaner who he will ; and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has ."
" The ferrule has not stood , sir ," said the carpenter , now coming up ; " I put good work into that leg ."
" But no bones broken , sir , I hope ," said Stubb with true concern .
" Aye !
and all splintered to pieces , Stubb !-- d ' ye see it .-- But even with a broken bone , old Ahab is untouched ; and I account no living bone of mine one jot more me , than this dead one that ' s lost .
Nor white whale , nor man , nor fiend , can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and inaccessible being .
Can any lead touch yonder floor , any mast scrape yonder roof ?-- Aloft there !
which way ?"
" Dead to leeward , sir ."
" Up helm , then ; pile on the sail again , ship keepers !
down the rest of the spare boats and rig them -- Mr . Starbuck away , and muster the boat ' s crews ."
" Let me first help thee towards the bulwarks , sir ."
" Oh , oh , oh !
how this splinter gores me now !
Accursed fate !
that the unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate !"
" Sir ?"
" My body , man , not thee .
Give me something for a cane -- there , that shivered lance will do .
Muster the men .
Surely I have not seen him yet .
By heaven it cannot be !-- missing ?-- quick !
call them all ."
The old man ' s hinted thought was true .
Upon mustering the company , the Parsee was not there .
" The Parsee !"
cried Stubb --" he must have been caught in --"
" The black vomit wrench thee !-- run all of ye above , alow , cabin , forecastle -- find him -- not gone -- not gone !"
But quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the Parsee was nowhere to be found .
" Aye , sir ," said Stubb --" caught among the tangles of your line -- I thought I saw him dragging under ."
" MY line !
MY line ?
Gone ?-- gone ?
What means that little word ?-- What death - knell rings in it , that old Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry .
The harpoon , too !-- toss over the litter there ,-- d ' ye see it ?-- the forged iron , men , the white whale ' s -- no , no , no ,-- blistered fool !
this hand did dart it !--' tis in the fish !-- Aloft there !
Keep him nailed -- Quick !-- all hands to the rigging of the boats -- collect the oars -- harpooneers !
the irons , the irons !-- hoist the royals higher -- a pull on all the sheets !-- helm there !
steady , steady for your life !
I ' ll ten times girdle the unmeasured globe ; yea and dive straight through it , but I ' ll slay him yet !
" Great God !
but for one single instant show thyself ," cried Starbuck ; " never , never wilt thou capture him , old man -- In Jesus ' name no more of this , that ' s worse than devil ' s madness .
Two days chased ; twice stove to splinters ; thy very leg once more snatched from under thee ; thy evil shadow gone -- all good angels mobbing thee with warnings :-- what more wouldst thou have ?-- Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish till he swamps the last man ?
Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom of the sea ?
Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world ?
Oh , oh ,-- Impiety and blasphemy to hunt him more !"
" Starbuck , of late I ' ve felt strangely moved to thee ; ever since that hour we both saw -- thou know ' st what , in one another ' s eyes .
But in this matter of the whale , be the front of thy face to me as the palm of this hand -- a lipless , unfeatured blank .
Ahab is for ever Ahab , man .
This whole act ' s immutably decreed .
' Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billion years before this ocean rolled .
Fool !
I am the Fates ' lieutenant ; I act under orders .
Look thou , underling !
that thou obeyest mine .-- Stand round me , men .
Ye see an old man cut down to the stump ; leaning on a shivered lance ; propped up on a lonely foot .
' Tis Ahab -- his body ' s part ; but Ahab ' s soul ' s a centipede , that moves upon a hundred legs .
I feel strained , half stranded , as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in a gale ; and I may look so .
But ere I break , yell hear me crack ; and till ye hear THAT , know that Ahab ' s hawser tows his purpose yet .
Believe ye , men , in the things called omens ?
Then laugh aloud , and cry encore !
For ere they drown , drowning things will twice rise to the surface ; then rise again , to sink for evermore .
So with Moby Dick -- two days he ' s floated -- tomorrow will be the third .
Aye , men , he ' ll rise once more ,-- but only to spout his last !
D ' ye feel brave men , brave ?"
" As fearless fire ," cried Stubb .
" And as mechanical ," muttered Ahab .
Then as the men went forward , he muttered on : " The things called omens !
And yesterday I talked the same to Starbuck there , concerning my broken boat .
Oh !
how valiantly I seek to drive out of others ' hearts what ' s clinched so fast in mine !-- The Parsee -- the Parsee !-- gone , gone ?
and he was to go before :-- but still was to be seen again ere I could perish -- How ' s that ?-- There ' s a riddle now might baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts of the whole line of judges :-- like a hawk ' s beak it pecks my brain .
I ' LL , I ' LL solve it , though !"
When dusk descended , the whale was still in sight to leeward .
So once more the sail was shortened , and everything passed nearly as on the previous night ; only , the sound of hammers , and the hum of the grindstone was heard till nearly daylight , as the men toiled by lanterns in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats and sharpening their fresh weapons for the morrow .
Meantime , of the broken keel of Ahab ' s wrecked craft the carpenter made him another leg ; while still as on the night before , slouched Ahab stood fixed within his scuttle ; his hid , heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its dial ; sat due eastward for the earliest sun .
CHAPTER 135
The Chase .-- Third Day .
The morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh , and once more the solitary night - man at the fore - mast - head was relieved by crowds of the daylight look - outs , who dotted every mast and almost every spar .
" D ' ye see him ?"
cried Ahab ; but the whale was not yet in sight .
" In his infallible wake , though ; but follow that wake , that ' s all .
Helm there ; steady , as thou goest , and hast been going .
What a lovely day again !
were it a new - made world , and made for a summer - house to the angels , and this morning the first of its throwing open to them , a fairer day could not dawn upon that world .
Here ' s food for thought , had Ahab time to think ; but Ahab never thinks ; he only feels , feels , feels ; THAT ' S tingling enough for mortal man !
to think ' s audacity .
God only has that right and privilege .
Thinking is , or ought to be , a coolness and a calmness ; and our poor hearts throb , and our poor brains beat too much for that .
And yet , I ' ve sometimes thought my brain was very calm -- frozen calm , this old skull cracks so , like a glass in which the contents turned to ice , and shiver it .
And still this hair is growing now ; this moment growing , and heat must breed it ; but no , it ' s like that sort of common grass that will grow anywhere , between the earthy clefts of Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava .
How the wild winds blow it ; they whip it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the tossed ship they cling to .
A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this through prison corridors and cells , and wards of hospitals , and ventilated them , and now comes blowing hither as innocent as fleeces .
Out upon it !-- it ' s tainted .
Were I the wind , I ' d blow no more on such a wicked , miserable world .
I ' d crawl somewhere to a cave , and slink there .
And yet , ' tis a noble and heroic thing , the wind !
who ever conquered it ?
In every fight it has the last and bitterest blow .
Run tilting at it , and you but run through it .
Ha !
a coward wind that strikes stark naked men , but will not stand to receive a single blow .
Even Ahab is a braver thing -- a nobler thing than THAT .
Would now the wind but had a body ; but all the things that most exasperate and outrage mortal man , all these things are bodiless , but only bodiless as objects , not as agents .
There ' s a most special , a most cunning , oh , a most malicious difference !
And yet , I say again , and swear it now , that there ' s something all glorious and gracious in the wind .
These warm Trade Winds , at least , that in the clear heavens blow straight on , in strong and steadfast , vigorous mildness ; and veer not from their mark , however the baser currents of the sea may turn and tack , and mightiest Mississippies of the land swift and swerve about , uncertain where to go at last .
And by the eternal Poles !
these same Trades that so directly blow my good ship on ; these Trades , or something like them -- something so unchangeable , and full as strong , blow my keeled soul along !
To it !
Aloft there !
What d ' ye see ?"
" Nothing , sir ."
" Nothing !
and noon at hand !
The doubloon goes a - begging !
See the sun !
Aye , aye , it must be so .
I ' ve oversailed him .
How , got the start ?
Aye , he ' s chasing ME now ; not I , HIM -- that ' s bad ; I might have known it , too .
Fool !
the lines -- the harpoons he ' s towing .
Aye , aye , I have run him by last night .
About !
about !
Come down , all of ye , but the regular look outs !
Man the braces !"
Steering as she had done , the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod ' s quarter , so that now being pointed in the reverse direction , the braced ship sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own white wake .
" Against the wind he now steers for the open jaw ," murmured Starbuck to himself , as he coiled the new - hauled main - brace upon the rail .
" God keep us , but already my bones feel damp within me , and from the inside wet my flesh .
I misdoubt me that I disobey my God in obeying him !"
" Stand by to sway me up !"
cried Ahab , advancing to the hempen basket .
" We should meet him soon ."
" Aye , aye , sir ," and straightway Starbuck did Ahab ' s bidding , and once more Ahab swung on high .
A whole hour now passed ; gold - beaten out to ages .
Time itself now held long breaths with keen suspense .
But at last , some three points off the weather bow , Ahab descried the spout again , and instantly from the three mast - heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had voiced it .
" Forehead to forehead I meet thee , this third time , Moby Dick !
On deck there !-- brace sharper up ; crowd her into the wind ' s eye .
He ' s too far off to lower yet , Mr . Starbuck .
The sails shake !
Stand over that helmsman with a top - maul !
So , so ; he travels fast , and I must down .
But let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea ; there ' s time for that .
An old , old sight , and yet somehow so young ; aye , and not changed a wink since I first saw it , a boy , from the sand - hills of Nantucket !
The same !-- the same !-- the same to Noah as to me .
There ' s a soft shower to leeward .
Such lovely leewardings !
They must lead somewhere -- to something else than common land , more palmy than the palms .
Leeward !
the white whale goes that way ; look to windward , then ; the better if the bitterer quarter .
But good bye , good bye , old mast - head !
What ' s this ?-- green ?
aye , tiny mosses in these warped cracks .
No such green weather stains on Ahab ' s head !
There ' s the difference now between man ' s old age and matter ' s .
But aye , old mast , we both grow old together ; sound in our hulls , though , are we not , my ship ?
Aye , minus a leg , that ' s all .
By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live flesh every way .
I can ' t compare with it ; and I ' ve known some ships made of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vital stuff of vital fathers .
What ' s that he said ?
he should still go before me , my pilot ; and yet to be seen again ?
But where ?
Will I have eyes at the bottom of the sea , supposing I descend those endless stairs ?
and all night I ' ve been sailing from him , wherever he did sink to .
Aye , aye , like many more thou told ' st direful truth as touching thyself , O Parsee ; but , Ahab , there thy shot fell short .
Good - bye , mast - head -- keep a good eye upon the whale , the while I ' m gone .
We ' ll talk to - morrow , nay , to - night , when the white whale lies down there , tied by head and tail ."
He gave the word ; and still gazing round him , was steadily lowered through the cloven blue air to the deck .
In due time the boats were lowered ; but as standing in his shallop ' s stern , Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent , he waved to the mate ,-- who held one of the tackle - ropes on deck -- and bade him pause .
" Starbuck !"
" Sir ?"
" For the third time my soul ' s ship starts upon this voyage , Starbuck ."
" Aye , sir , thou wilt have it so ."
" Some ships sail from their ports , and ever afterwards are missing , Starbuck !"
" Truth , sir : saddest truth ."
" Some men die at ebb tide ; some at low water ; some at the full of the flood ;-- and I feel now like a billow that ' s all one crested comb , Starbuck .
I am old ;-- shake hands with me , man ."
Their hands met ; their eyes fastened ; Starbuck ' s tears the glue .
" Oh , my captain , my captain !-- noble heart -- go not -- go not !-- see , it ' s a brave man that weeps ; how great the agony of the persuasion then !"
" Lower away !"
-- cried Ahab , tossing the mate ' s arm from him .
" Stand by the crew !"
In an instant the boat was pulling round close under the stern .
" The sharks !
the sharks !"
cried a voice from the low cabin - window there ; " O master , my master , come back !"
But Ahab heard nothing ; for his own voice was high - lifted then ; and the boat leaped on .
Yet the voice spake true ; for scarce had he pushed from the ship , when numbers of sharks , seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneath the hull , maliciously snapped at the blades of the oars , every time they dipped in the water ; and in this way accompanied the boat with their bites .
It is a thing not uncommonly happening to the whale - boats in those swarming seas ; the sharks at times apparently following them in the same prescient way that vultures hover over the banners of marching regiments in the east .
But these were the first sharks that had been observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been first descried ; and whether it was that Ahab ' s crew were all such tiger - yellow barbarians , and therefore their flesh more musky to the senses of the sharks -- a matter sometimes well known to affect them ,-- however it was , they seemed to follow that one boat without molesting the others .
" Heart of wrought steel !"
murmured Starbuck gazing over the side , and following with his eyes the receding boat --" canst thou yet ring boldly to that sight ?-- lowering thy keel among ravening sharks , and followed by them , open - mouthed to the chase ; and this the critical third day ?-- For when three days flow together in one continuous intense pursuit ; be sure the first is the morning , the second the noon , and the third the evening and the end of that thing -- be that end what it may .
Oh !
my God !
what is this that shoots through me , and leaves me so deadly calm , yet expectant ,-- fixed at the top of a shudder !
Future things swim before me , as in empty outlines and skeletons ; all the past is somehow grown dim .
Mary , girl !
thou fadest in pale glories behind me ; boy !
I seem to see but thy eyes grown wondrous blue .
Strangest problems of life seem clearing ; but clouds sweep between -- Is my journey ' s end coming ?
My legs feel faint ; like his who has footed it all day .
Feel thy heart ,-- beats it yet ?
Stir thyself , Starbuck !-- stave it off -- move , move !
speak aloud !-- Mast - head there !
See ye my boy ' s hand on the hill ?-- Crazed ;-- aloft there !-- keep thy keenest eye upon the boats :-- mark well the whale !-- Ho !
again !-- drive off that hawk !
see !
he pecks -- he tears the vane "-- pointing to the red flag flying at the main - truck --" Ha !
he soars away with it !-- Where ' s the old man now ?
see ' st thou that sight , oh Ahab !-- shudder , shudder !"
The boats had not gone very far , when by a signal from the mast - heads -- a downward pointed arm , Ahab knew that the whale had sounded ; but intending to be near him at the next rising , he held on his way a little sideways from the vessel ; the becharmed crew maintaining the profoundest silence , as the head - beat waves hammered and hammered against the opposing bow .
" Drive , drive in your nails , oh ye waves !
to their uttermost heads drive them in !
ye but strike a thing without a lid ; and no coffin and no hearse can be mine :-- and hemp only can kill me !
Ha !
ha !"
Suddenly the waters around them slowly swelled in broad circles ; then quickly upheaved , as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of ice , swiftly rising to the surface .
A low rumbling sound was heard ; a subterraneous hum ; and then all held their breaths ; as bedraggled with trailing ropes , and harpoons , and lances , a vast form shot lengthwise , but obliquely from the sea .
Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist , it hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air ; and then fell swamping back into the deep .
Crushed thirty feet upwards , the waters flashed for an instant like heaps of fountains , then brokenly sank in a shower of flakes , leaving the circling surface creamed like new milk round the marble trunk of the whale .
" Give way !"
cried Ahab to the oarsmen , and the boats darted forward to the attack ; but maddened by yesterday ' s fresh irons that corroded in him , Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell from heaven .
The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad white forehead , beneath the transparent skin , looked knitted together ; as head on , he came churning his tail among the boats ; and once more flailed them apart ; spilling out the irons and lances from the two mates ' boats , and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows , but leaving Ahab ' s almost without a scar .
While Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping the strained planks ; and as the whale swimming out from them , turned , and showed one entire flank as he shot by them again ; at that moment a quick cry went up .
Lashed round and round to the fish ' s back ; pinioned in the turns upon turns in which , during the past night , the whale had reeled the involutions of the lines around him , the half torn body of the Parsee was seen ; his sable raiment frayed to shreds ; his distended eyes turned full upon old Ahab .
The harpoon dropped from his hand .
" Befooled , befooled !"
-- drawing in a long lean breath --" Aye , Parsee !
I see thee again .-- Aye , and thou goest before ; and this , THIS then is the hearse that thou didst promise .
But I hold thee to the last letter of thy word .
Where is the second hearse ?
Away , mates , to the ship !
those boats are useless now ; repair them if ye can in time , and return to me ; if not , Ahab is enough to die -- Down , men !
the first thing that but offers to jump from this boat I stand in , that thing I harpoon .
Ye are not other men , but my arms and my legs ; and so obey me .-- Where ' s the whale ?
gone down again ?"
But he looked too nigh the boat ; for as if bent upon escaping with the corpse he bore , and as if the particular place of the last encounter had been but a stage in his leeward voyage , Moby Dick was now again steadily swimming forward ; and had almost passed the ship ,-- which thus far had been sailing in the contrary direction to him , though for the present her headway had been stopped .
He seemed swimming with his utmost velocity , and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight path in the sea .
" Oh !
Ahab ," cried Starbuck , " not too late is it , even now , the third day , to desist .
See !
Moby Dick seeks thee not .
It is thou , thou , that madly seekest him !"
Setting sail to the rising wind , the lonely boat was swiftly impelled to leeward , by both oars and canvas .
And at last when Ahab was sliding by the vessel , so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck ' s face as he leaned over the rail , he hailed him to turn the vessel about , and follow him , not too swiftly , at a judicious interval .
Glancing upwards , he saw Tashtego , Queequeg , and Daggoo , eagerly mounting to the three mast - heads ; while the oarsmen were rocking in the two staved boats which had but just been hoisted to the side , and were busily at work in repairing them .
One after the other , through the port - holes , as he sped , he also caught flying glimpses of Stubb and Flask , busying themselves on deck among bundles of new irons and lances .
As he saw all this ; as he heard the hammers in the broken boats ; far other hammers seemed driving a nail into his heart .
But he rallied .
And now marking that the vane or flag was gone from the main - mast - head , he shouted to Tashtego , who had just gained that perch , to descend again for another flag , and a hammer and nails , and so nail it to the mast .
Whether fagged by the three days ' running chase , and the resistance to his swimming in the knotted hamper he bore ; or whether it was some latent deceitfulness and malice in him : whichever was true , the White Whale ' s way now began to abate , as it seemed , from the boat so rapidly nearing him once more ; though indeed the whale ' s last start had not been so long a one as before .
And still as Ahab glided over the waves the unpitying sharks accompanied him ; and so pertinaciously stuck to the boat ; and so continually bit at the plying oars , that the blades became jagged and crunched , and left small splinters in the sea , at almost every dip .
" Heed them not !
those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars .
Pull on !
' tis the better rest , the shark ' s jaw than the yielding water ."
" But at every bite , sir , the thin blades grow smaller and smaller !"
" They will last long enough !
pull on !-- But who can tell "-- he muttered --" whether these sharks swim to feast on the whale or on Ahab ?-- But pull on !
Aye , all alive , now -- we near him .
The helm !
take the helm !
let me pass ,"-- and so saying two of the oarsmen helped him forward to the bows of the still flying boat .
At length as the craft was cast to one side , and ran ranging along with the White Whale ' s flank , he seemed strangely oblivious of its advance -- as the whale sometimes will -- and Ahab was fairly within the smoky mountain mist , which , thrown off from the whale ' s spout , curled round his great , Monadnock hump ; he was even thus close to him ; when , with body arched back , and both arms lengthwise high - lifted to the poise , he darted his fierce iron , and his far fiercer curse into the hated whale .
As both steel and curse sank to the socket , as if sucked into a morass , Moby Dick sideways writhed ; spasmodically rolled his nigh flank against the bow , and , without staving a hole in it , so suddenly canted the boat over , that had it not been for the elevated part of the gunwale to which he then clung , Ahab would once more have been tossed into the sea .
As it was , three of the oarsmen -- who foreknew not the precise instant of the dart , and were therefore unprepared for its effects -- these were flung out ; but so fell , that , in an instant two of them clutched the gunwale again , and rising to its level on a combing wave , hurled themselves bodily inboard again ; the third man helplessly dropping astern , but still afloat and swimming .
Almost simultaneously , with a mighty volition of ungraduated , instantaneous swiftness , the White Whale darted through the weltering sea .
But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with the line , and hold it so ; and commanded the crew to turn round on their seats , and tow the boat up to the mark ; the moment the treacherous line felt that double strain and tug , it snapped in the empty air !
" What breaks in me ?
Some sinew cracks !--' tis whole again ; oars !
oars !
Burst in upon him !"
Hearing the tremendous rush of the sea - crashing boat , the whale wheeled round to present his blank forehead at bay ; but in that evolution , catching sight of the nearing black hull of the ship ; seemingly seeing in it the source of all his persecutions ; bethinking it -- it may be -- a larger and nobler foe ; of a sudden , he bore down upon its advancing prow , smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam .
Ahab staggered ; his hand smote his forehead .
" I grow blind ; hands !
stretch out before me that I may yet grope my way .
Is ' t night ?"
" The whale !
The ship !"
cried the cringing oarsmen .
" Oars !
oars !
Slope downwards to thy depths , O sea , that ere it be for ever too late , Ahab may slide this last , last time upon his mark !
I see : the ship !
the ship !
Dash on , my men !
Will ye not save my ship ?"
But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the sledge - hammering seas , the before whale - smitten bow - ends of two planks burst through , and in an instant almost , the temporarily disabled boat lay nearly level with the waves ; its half - wading , splashing crew , trying hard to stop the gap and bale out the pouring water .
Meantime , for that one beholding instant , Tashtego ' s mast - head hammer remained suspended in his hand ; and the red flag , half - wrapping him as with a plaid , then streamed itself straight out from him , as his own forward - flowing heart ; while Starbuck and Stubb , standing upon the bowsprit beneath , caught sight of the down - coming monster just as soon as he .
" The whale , the whale !
Up helm , up helm !
Oh , all ye sweet powers of air , now hug me close !
Let not Starbuck die , if die he must , in a woman ' s fainting fit .
Up helm , I say -- ye fools , the jaw !
the jaw !
Is this the end of all my bursting prayers ?
all my life - long fidelities ?
Oh , Ahab , Ahab , lo , thy work .
Steady !
helmsman , steady .
Nay , nay !
Up helm again !
He turns to meet us !
Oh , his unappeasable brow drives on towards one , whose duty tells him he cannot depart .
My God , stand by me now !"
" Stand not by me , but stand under me , whoever you are that will now help Stubb ; for Stubb , too , sticks here .
I grin at thee , thou grinning whale !
Who ever helped Stubb , or kept Stubb awake , but Stubb ' s own unwinking eye ?
And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that is all too soft ; would it were stuffed with brushwood !
I grin at thee , thou grinning whale !
Look ye , sun , moon , and stars !
I call ye assassins of as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost .
For all that , I would yet ring glasses with ye , would ye but hand the cup !
Oh , oh !
oh , oh !
thou grinning whale , but there ' ll be plenty of gulping soon !
Why fly ye not , O Ahab !
For me , off shoes and jacket to it ; let Stubb die in his drawers !
A most mouldy and over salted death , though ;-- cherries !
cherries !
cherries !
Oh , Flask , for one red cherry ere we die !"
" Cherries ?
I only wish that we were where they grow .
Oh , Stubb , I hope my poor mother ' s drawn my part - pay ere this ; if not , few coppers will now come to her , for the voyage is up ."
From the ship ' s bows , nearly all the seamen now hung inactive ; hammers , bits of plank , lances , and harpoons , mechanically retained in their hands , just as they had darted from their various employments ; all their enchanted eyes intent upon the whale , which from side to side strangely vibrating his predestinating head , sent a broad band of overspreading semicircular foam before him as he rushed .
Retribution , swift vengeance , eternal malice were in his whole aspect , and spite of all that mortal man could do , the solid white buttress of his forehead smote the ship ' s starboard bow , till men and timbers reeled .
Some fell flat upon their faces .
Like dislodged trucks , the heads of the harpooneers aloft shook on their bull - like necks .
Through the breach , they heard the waters pour , as mountain torrents down a flume .
" The ship !
The hearse !-- the second hearse !"
cried Ahab from the boat ; " its wood could only be American !"
Diving beneath the settling ship , the whale ran quivering along its keel ; but turning under water , swiftly shot to the surface again , far off the other bow , but within a few yards of Ahab ' s boat , where , for a time , he lay quiescent .
" I turn my body from the sun .
What ho , Tashtego !
let me hear thy hammer .
Oh !
ye three unsurrendered spires of mine ; thou uncracked keel ; and only god - bullied hull ; thou firm deck , and haughty helm , and Pole - pointed prow ,-- death - glorious ship !
must ye then perish , and without me ?
Am I cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwrecked captains ?
Oh , lonely death on lonely life !
Oh , now I feel my topmost greatness lies in my topmost grief .
Ho , ho !
from all your furthest bounds , pour ye now in , ye bold billows of my whole foregone life , and top this one piled comber of my death !
Towards thee I roll , thou all - destroying but unconquering whale ; to the last I grapple with thee ; from hell ' s heart I stab at thee ; for hate ' s sake I spit my last breath at thee .
Sink all coffins and all hearses to one common pool !
and since neither can be mine , let me then tow to pieces , while still chasing thee , though tied to thee , thou damned whale !
THUS , I give up the spear !"
The harpoon was darted ; the stricken whale flew forward ; with igniting velocity the line ran through the grooves ;-- ran foul .
Ahab stooped to clear it ; he did clear it ; but the flying turn caught him round the neck , and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim , he was shot out of the boat , ere the crew knew he was gone .
Next instant , the heavy eye - splice in the rope ' s final end flew out of the stark - empty tub , knocked down an oarsman , and smiting the sea , disappeared in its depths .
For an instant , the tranced boat ' s crew stood still ; then turned .
" The ship ?
Great God , where is the ship ?"
Soon they through dim , bewildering mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom , as in the gaseous Fata Morgana ; only the uppermost masts out of water ; while fixed by infatuation , or fidelity , or fate , to their once lofty perches , the pagan harpooneers still maintained their sinking lookouts on the sea .
And now , concentric circles seized the lone boat itself , and all its crew , and each floating oar , and every lance - pole , and spinning , animate and inanimate , all round and round in one vortex , carried the smallest chip of the Pequod out of sight .
But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over the sunken head of the Indian at the mainmast , leaving a few inches of the erect spar yet visible , together with long streaming yards of the flag , which calmly undulated , with ironical coincidings , over the destroying billows they almost touched ;-- at that instant , a red arm and a hammer hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air , in the act of nailing the flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar .
A sky - hawk that tauntingly had followed the main - truck downwards from its natural home among the stars , pecking at the flag , and incommoding Tashtego there ; this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between the hammer and the wood ; and simultaneously feeling that etherial thrill , the submerged savage beneath , in his death - gasp , kept his hammer frozen there ; and so the bird of heaven , with archangelic shrieks , and his imperial beak thrust upwards , and his whole captive form folded in the flag of Ahab , went down with his ship , which , like Satan , would not sink to hell till she had dragged a living part of heaven along with her , and helmeted herself with it .
Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf ; a sullen white surf beat against its steep sides ; then all collapsed , and the great shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago .
Epilogue
" AND I ONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE " Job .
The drama ' s done .
Why then here does any one step forth ?-- Because one did survive the wreck .
It so chanced , that after the Parsee ' s disappearance , I was he whom the Fates ordained to take the place of Ahab ' s bowsman , when that bowsman assumed the vacant post ; the same , who , when on the last day the three men were tossed from out of the rocking boat , was dropped astern .
So , floating on the margin of the ensuing scene , and in full sight of it , when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me , I was then , but slowly , drawn towards the closing vortex .
When I reached it , it had subsided to a creamy pool .
Round and round , then , and ever contracting towards the button - like black bubble at the axis of that slowly wheeling circle , like another Ixion I did revolve .
Till , gaining that vital centre , the black bubble upward burst ; and now , liberated by reason of its cunning spring , and , owing to its great buoyancy , rising with great force , the coffin life - buoy shot lengthwise from the sea , fell over , and floated by my side .
Buoyed up by that coffin , for almost one whole day and night , I floated on a soft and dirgelike main .
The unharming sharks , they glided by as if with padlocks on their mouths ; the savage sea - hawks sailed with sheathed beaks .
On the second day , a sail drew near , nearer , and picked me up at last .
It was the devious - cruising Rachel , that in her retracing search after her missing children , only found another orphan .
[ Paradise Lost by John Milton 1667 ]
Book I
Of Man ' s first disobedience , and the fruit Of that forbidden tree whose mortal taste Brought death into the World , and all our woe , With loss of Eden , till one greater Man Restore us , and regain the blissful seat , Sing , Heavenly Muse , that , on the secret top Of Oreb , or of Sinai , didst inspire That shepherd who first taught the chosen seed In the beginning how the heavens and earth Rose out of Chaos : or , if Sion hill Delight thee more , and Siloa ' s brook that flowed Fast by the oracle of God , I thence Invoke thy aid to my adventurous song , That with no middle flight intends to soar Above th ' Aonian mount , while it pursues Things unattempted yet in prose or rhyme .
And chiefly thou , O Spirit , that dost prefer Before all temples th ' upright heart and pure , Instruct me , for thou know ' st ; thou from the first Wast present , and , with mighty wings outspread , Dove - like sat ' st brooding on the vast Abyss , And mad ' st it pregnant : what in me is dark Illumine , what is low raise and support ; That , to the height of this great argument , I may assert Eternal Providence , And justify the ways of God to men .
Say first -- for Heaven hides nothing from thy view , Nor the deep tract of Hell -- say first what cause Moved our grand parents , in that happy state , Favoured of Heaven so highly , to fall off From their Creator , and transgress his will For one restraint , lords of the World besides .
Who first seduced them to that foul revolt ?
Th ' infernal Serpent ; he it was whose guile , Stirred up with envy and revenge , deceived The mother of mankind , what time his pride Had cast him out from Heaven , with all his host Of rebel Angels , by whose aid , aspiring To set himself in glory above his peers , He trusted to have equalled the Most High , If he opposed , and with ambitious aim Against the throne and monarchy of God , Raised impious war in Heaven and battle proud , With vain attempt .
Him the Almighty Power Hurled headlong flaming from th ' ethereal sky , With hideous ruin and combustion , down To bottomless perdition , there to dwell In adamantine chains and penal fire , Who durst defy th ' Omnipotent to arms .
Nine times the space that measures day and night To mortal men , he , with his horrid crew , Lay vanquished , rolling in the fiery gulf , Confounded , though immortal .
But his doom Reserved him to more wrath ; for now the thought Both of lost happiness and lasting pain Torments him : round he throws his baleful eyes , That witnessed huge affliction and dismay , Mixed with obdurate pride and steadfast hate .
At once , as far as Angels ken , he views The dismal situation waste and wild .
A dungeon horrible , on all sides round , As one great furnace flamed ; yet from those flames No light ; but rather darkness visible Served only to discover sights of woe , Regions of sorrow , doleful shades , where peace And rest can never dwell , hope never comes That comes to all , but torture without end Still urges , and a fiery deluge , fed With ever - burning sulphur unconsumed .
Such place Eternal Justice has prepared For those rebellious ; here their prison ordained In utter darkness , and their portion set , As far removed from God and light of Heaven As from the centre thrice to th ' utmost pole .
Oh how unlike the place from whence they fell !
There the companions of his fall , o ' erwhelmed With floods and whirlwinds of tempestuous fire , He soon discerns ; and , weltering by his side , One next himself in power , and next in crime , Long after known in Palestine , and named Beelzebub .
To whom th ' Arch - Enemy , And thence in Heaven called Satan , with bold words Breaking the horrid silence , thus began :-- " If thou beest he -- but O how fallen !
how changed From him who , in the happy realms of light Clothed with transcendent brightness , didst outshine Myriads , though bright !-- if he whom mutual league , United thoughts and counsels , equal hope And hazard in the glorious enterprise Joined with me once , now misery hath joined In equal ruin ; into what pit thou seest From what height fallen : so much the stronger proved He with his thunder ; and till then who knew The force of those dire arms ?
Yet not for those , Nor what the potent Victor in his rage Can else inflict , do I repent , or change , Though changed in outward lustre , that fixed mind , And high disdain from sense of injured merit , That with the Mightiest raised me to contend , And to the fierce contentions brought along Innumerable force of Spirits armed , That durst dislike his reign , and , me preferring , His utmost power with adverse power opposed In dubious battle on the plains of Heaven , And shook his throne .
What though the field be lost ?
All is not lost -- the unconquerable will , And study of revenge , immortal hate , And courage never to submit or yield : And what is else not to be overcome ?
That glory never shall his wrath or might Extort from me .
To bow and sue for grace With suppliant knee , and deify his power Who , from the terror of this arm , so late Doubted his empire -- that were low indeed ; That were an ignominy and shame beneath This downfall ; since , by fate , the strength of Gods , And this empyreal sybstance , cannot fail ; Since , through experience of this great event , In arms not worse , in foresight much advanced , We may with more successful hope resolve To wage by force or guile eternal war , Irreconcilable to our grand Foe , Who now triumphs , and in th ' excess of joy Sole reigning holds the tyranny of Heaven ."
So spake th ' apostate Angel , though in pain , Vaunting aloud , but racked with deep despair ; And him thus answered soon his bold compeer :-- " O Prince , O Chief of many throned Powers That led th ' embattled Seraphim to war Under thy conduct , and , in dreadful deeds Fearless , endangered Heaven ' s perpetual King , And put to proof his high supremacy , Whether upheld by strength , or chance , or fate , Too well I see and rue the dire event That , with sad overthrow and foul defeat , Hath lost us Heaven , and all this mighty host In horrible destruction laid thus low , As far as Gods and heavenly Essences Can perish : for the mind and spirit remains Invincible , and vigour soon returns , Though all our glory extinct , and happy state Here swallowed up in endless misery .
But what if he our Conqueror ( whom I now Of force believe almighty , since no less Than such could have o ' erpowered such force as ours ) Have left us this our spirit and strength entire , Strongly to suffer and support our pains , That we may so suffice his vengeful ire , Or do him mightier service as his thralls By right of war , whate ' er his business be , Here in the heart of Hell to work in fire , Or do his errands in the gloomy Deep ?
What can it the avail though yet we feel Strength undiminished , or eternal being To undergo eternal punishment ?"
Whereto with speedy words th ' Arch - Fiend replied :-- " Fallen Cherub , to be weak is miserable , Doing or suffering : but of this be sure -- To do aught good never will be our task , But ever to do ill our sole delight , As being the contrary to his high will Whom we resist .
If then his providence Out of our evil seek to bring forth good , Our labour must be to pervert that end , And out of good still to find means of evil ; Which ofttimes may succeed so as perhaps Shall grieve him , if I fail not , and disturb His inmost counsels from their destined aim .
But see !
the angry Victor hath recalled His ministers of vengeance and pursuit Back to the gates of Heaven : the sulphurous hail , Shot after us in storm , o ' erblown hath laid The fiery surge that from the precipice Of Heaven received us falling ; and the thunder , Winged with red lightning and impetuous rage , Perhaps hath spent his shafts , and ceases now To bellow through the vast and boundless Deep .
Let us not slip th ' occasion , whether scorn Or satiate fury yield it from our Foe .
Seest thou yon dreary plain , forlorn and wild , The seat of desolation , void of light , Save what the glimmering of these livid flames Casts pale and dreadful ?
Thither let us tend From off the tossing of these fiery waves ; There rest , if any rest can harbour there ; And , re - assembling our afflicted powers , Consult how we may henceforth most offend Our enemy , our own loss how repair , How overcome this dire calamity , What reinforcement we may gain from hope , If not , what resolution from despair ."
Thus Satan , talking to his nearest mate , With head uplift above the wave , and eyes That sparkling blazed ; his other parts besides Prone on the flood , extended long and large , Lay floating many a rood , in bulk as huge As whom the fables name of monstrous size , Titanian or Earth - born , that warred on Jove , Briareos or Typhon , whom the den By ancient Tarsus held , or that sea - beast Leviathan , which God of all his works Created hugest that swim th ' ocean - stream .
Him , haply slumbering on the Norway foam , The pilot of some small night - foundered skiff , Deeming some island , oft , as seamen tell , With fixed anchor in his scaly rind , Moors by his side under the lee , while night Invests the sea , and wished morn delays .
So stretched out huge in length the Arch - fiend lay , Chained on the burning lake ; nor ever thence Had risen , or heaved his head , but that the will And high permission of all - ruling Heaven Left him at large to his own dark designs , That with reiterated crimes he might Heap on himself damnation , while he sought Evil to others , and enraged might see How all his malice served but to bring forth Infinite goodness , grace , and mercy , shewn On Man by him seduced , but on himself Treble confusion , wrath , and vengeance poured .
Forthwith upright he rears from off the pool His mighty stature ; on each hand the flames Driven backward slope their pointing spires , and , rolled In billows , leave i ' th ' midst a horrid vale .
Then with expanded wings he steers his flight Aloft , incumbent on the dusky air , That felt unusual weight ; till on dry land He lights -- if it were land that ever burned With solid , as the lake with liquid fire , And such appeared in hue as when the force Of subterranean wind transprots a hill Torn from Pelorus , or the shattered side Of thundering Etna , whose combustible And fuelled entrails , thence conceiving fire , Sublimed with mineral fury , aid the winds , And leave a singed bottom all involved With stench and smoke .
Such resting found the sole Of unblest feet .
Him followed his next mate ; Both glorying to have scaped the Stygian flood As gods , and by their own recovered strength , Not by the sufferance of supernal Power .
" Is this the region , this the soil , the clime ," Said then the lost Archangel , " this the seat That we must change for Heaven ?-- this mournful gloom For that celestial light ?
Be it so , since he Who now is sovereign can dispose and bid What shall be right : farthest from him is best Whom reason hath equalled , force hath made supreme Above his equals .
Farewell , happy fields , Where joy for ever dwells !
Hail , horrors !
hail , Infernal world !
and thou , profoundest Hell , Receive thy new possessor -- one who brings A mind not to be changed by place or time .
The mind is its own place , and in itself Can make a Heaven of Hell , a Hell of Heaven .
What matter where , if I be still the same , And what I should be , all but less than he Whom thunder hath made greater ?
Here at least We shall be free ; th ' Almighty hath not built Here for his envy , will not drive us hence : Here we may reigh secure ; and , in my choice , To reign is worth ambition , though in Hell : Better to reign in Hell than serve in Heaven .
But wherefore let we then our faithful friends , Th ' associates and co - partners of our loss , Lie thus astonished on th ' oblivious pool , And call them not to share with us their part In this unhappy mansion , or once more With rallied arms to try what may be yet Regained in Heaven , or what more lost in Hell ?"
So Satan spake ; and him Beelzebub Thus answered :--" Leader of those armies bright Which , but th ' Omnipotent , none could have foiled !
If once they hear that voice , their liveliest pledge Of hope in fears and dangers -- heard so oft In worst extremes , and on the perilous edge Of battle , when it raged , in all assaults Their surest signal -- they will soon resume New courage and revive , though now they lie Grovelling and prostrate on yon lake of fire , As we erewhile , astounded and amazed ; No wonder , fallen such a pernicious height !"
He scare had ceased when the superior Fiend Was moving toward the shore ; his ponderous shield , Ethereal temper , massy , large , and round , Behind him cast .
The broad circumference Hung on his shoulders like the moon , whose orb Through optic glass the Tuscan artist views At evening , from the top of Fesole , Or in Valdarno , to descry new lands , Rivers , or mountains , in her spotty globe .
His spear -- to equal which the tallest pine Hewn on Norwegian hills , to be the mast Of some great ammiral , were but a wand -- He walked with , to support uneasy steps Over the burning marl , not like those steps On Heaven ' s azure ; and the torrid clime Smote on him sore besides , vaulted with fire .
Nathless he so endured , till on the beach Of that inflamed sea he stood , and called His legions -- Angel Forms , who lay entranced Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks In Vallombrosa , where th ' Etrurian shades High over - arched embower ; or scattered sedge Afloat , when with fierce winds Orion armed Hath vexed the Red - Sea coast , whose waves o ' erthrew Busiris and his Memphian chivalry , While with perfidious hatred they pursued The sojourners of Goshen , who beheld From the safe shore their floating carcases And broken chariot - wheels .
So thick bestrown , Abject and lost , lay these , covering the flood , Under amazement of their hideous change .
He called so loud that all the hollow deep Of Hell resounded :--" Princes , Potentates , Warriors , the Flower of Heaven -- once yours ; now lost , If such astonishment as this can seize Eternal Spirits !
Or have ye chosen this place After the toil of battle to repose Your wearied virtue , for the ease you find To slumber here , as in the vales of Heaven ?
Or in this abject posture have ye sworn To adore the Conqueror , who now beholds Cherub and Seraph rolling in the flood With scattered arms and ensigns , till anon His swift pursuers from Heaven - gates discern Th ' advantage , and , descending , tread us down Thus drooping , or with linked thunderbolts Transfix us to the bottom of this gulf ?
Awake , arise , or be for ever fallen !"
They heard , and were abashed , and up they sprung Upon the wing , as when men wont to watch On duty , sleeping found by whom they dread , Rouse and bestir themselves ere well awake .
Nor did they not perceive the evil plight In which they were , or the fierce pains not feel ; Yet to their General ' s voice they soon obeyed Innumerable .
As when the potent rod Of Amram ' s son , in Egypt ' s evil day , Waved round the coast , up - called a pitchy cloud Of locusts , warping on the eastern wind , That o ' er the realm of impious Pharaoh hung Like Night , and darkened all the land of Nile ; So numberless were those bad Angels seen Hovering on wing under the cope of Hell , ' Twixt upper , nether , and surrounding fires ; Till , as a signal given , th ' uplifted spear Of their great Sultan waving to direct Their course , in even balance down they light On the firm brimstone , and fill all the plain : A multitude like which the populous North Poured never from her frozen loins to pass Rhene or the Danaw , when her barbarous sons Came like a deluge on the South , and spread Beneath Gibraltar to the Libyan sands .
Forthwith , form every squadron and each band , The heads and leaders thither haste where stood Their great Commander -- godlike Shapes , and Forms Excelling human ; princely Dignities ; And Powers that erst in Heaven sat on thrones , Though on their names in Heavenly records now Be no memorial , blotted out and rased By their rebellion from the Books of Life .
Nor had they yet among the sons of Eve Got them new names , till , wandering o ' er the earth , Through God ' s high sufferance for the trial of man , By falsities and lies the greatest part Of mankind they corrupted to forsake God their Creator , and th ' invisible Glory of him that made them to transform Oft to the image of a brute , adorned With gay religions full of pomp and gold , And devils to adore for deities : Then were they known to men by various names , And various idols through the heathen world .
Say , Muse , their names then known , who first , who last , Roused from the slumber on that fiery couch , At their great Emperor ' s call , as next in worth Came singly where he stood on the bare strand , While the promiscuous crowd stood yet aloof ?
The chief were those who , from the pit of Hell Roaming to seek their prey on Earth , durst fix Their seats , long after , next the seat of God , Their altars by his altar , gods adored Among the nations round , and durst abide Jehovah thundering out of Sion , throned Between the Cherubim ; yea , often placed Within his sanctuary itself their shrines , Abominations ; and with cursed things His holy rites and solemn feasts profaned , And with their darkness durst affront his light .
First , Moloch , horrid king , besmeared with blood Of human sacrifice , and parents ' tears ; Though , for the noise of drums and timbrels loud , Their children ' s cries unheard that passed through fire To his grim idol .
Him the Ammonite Worshiped in Rabba and her watery plain , In Argob and in Basan , to the stream Of utmost Arnon .
Nor content with such Audacious neighbourhood , the wisest heart Of Solomon he led by fraoud to build His temple right against the temple of God On that opprobrious hill , and made his grove The pleasant valley of Hinnom , Tophet thence And black Gehenna called , the type of Hell .
Next Chemos , th ' obscene dread of Moab ' s sons , From Aroar to Nebo and the wild Of southmost Abarim ; in Hesebon And Horonaim , Seon ' s real , beyond The flowery dale of Sibma clad with vines , And Eleale to th ' Asphaltic Pool : Peor his other name , when he enticed Israel in Sittim , on their march from Nile , To do him wanton rites , which cost them woe .
Yet thence his lustful orgies he enlarged Even to that hill of scandal , by the grove Of Moloch homicide , lust hard by hate , Till good Josiah drove them thence to Hell .
With these came they who , from the bordering flood Of old Euphrates to the brook that parts Egypt from Syrian ground , had general names Of Baalim and Ashtaroth -- those male , These feminine .
For Spirits , when they please , Can either sex assume , or both ; so soft And uncompounded is their essence pure , Not tried or manacled with joint or limb , Nor founded on the brittle strength of bones , Like cumbrous flesh ; but , in what shape they choose , Dilated or condensed , bright or obscure , Can execute their airy purposes , And works of love or enmity fulfil .
For those the race of Israel oft forsook Their Living Strength , and unfrequented left His righteous altar , bowing lowly down To bestial gods ; for which their heads as low Bowed down in battle , sunk before the spear Of despicable foes .
With these in troop Came Astoreth , whom the Phoenicians called Astarte , queen of heaven , with crescent horns ; To whose bright image nigntly by the moon Sidonian virgins paid their vows and songs ; In Sion also not unsung , where stood Her temple on th ' offensive mountain , built By that uxorious king whose heart , though large , Beguiled by fair idolatresses , fell To idols foul .
Thammuz came next behind , Whose annual wound in Lebanon allured The Syrian damsels to lament his fate In amorous ditties all a summer ' s day , While smooth Adonis from his native rock Ran purple to the sea , supposed with blood Of Thammuz yearly wounded : the love - tale Infected Sion ' s daughters with like heat , Whose wanton passions in the sacred proch Ezekiel saw , when , by the vision led , His eye surveyed the dark idolatries Of alienated Judah .
Next came one Who mourned in earnest , when the captive ark Maimed his brute image , head and hands lopt off , In his own temple , on the grunsel - edge , Where he fell flat and shamed his worshippers : Dagon his name , sea - monster , upward man And downward fish ; yet had his temple high Reared in Azotus , dreaded through the coast Of Palestine , in Gath and Ascalon , And Accaron and Gaza ' s frontier bounds .
Him followed Rimmon , whose delightful seat Was fair Damascus , on the fertile banks Of Abbana and Pharphar , lucid streams .
He also against the house of God was bold : A leper once he lost , and gained a king -- Ahaz , his sottish conqueror , whom he drew God ' s altar to disparage and displace For one of Syrian mode , whereon to burn His odious offerings , and adore the gods Whom he had vanquished .
After these appeared A crew who , under names of old renown -- Osiris , Isis , Orus , and their train -- With monstrous shapes and sorceries abused Fanatic Egypt and her priests to seek Their wandering gods disguised in brutish forms Rather than human .
Nor did Israel scape Th ' infection , when their borrowed gold composed The calf in Oreb ; and the rebel king Doubled that sin in Bethel and in Dan , Likening his Maker to the grazed ox -- Jehovah , who , in one night , when he passed From Egypt marching , equalled with one stroke Both her first - born and all her bleating gods .
Belial came last ; than whom a Spirit more lewd Fell not from Heaven , or more gross to love Vice for itself .
To him no temple stood Or altar smoked ; yet who more oft than he In temples and at altars , when the priest Turns atheist , as did Eli ' s sons , who filled With lust and violence the house of God ?
In courts and palaces he also reigns , And in luxurious cities , where the noise Of riot ascends above their loftiest towers , And injury and outrage ; and , when night Darkens the streets , then wander forth the sons Of Belial , flown with insolence and wine .
Witness the streets of Sodom , and that night In Gibeah , when the hospitable door Exposed a matron , to avoid worse rape .
These were the prime in order and in might : The rest were long to tell ; though far renowned Th ' Ionian gods -- of Javan ' s issue held Gods , yet confessed later than Heaven and Earth , Their boasted parents ;-- Titan , Heaven ' s first - born , With his enormous brood , and birthright seized By younger Saturn : he from mightier Jove , His own and Rhea ' s son , like measure found ; So Jove usurping reigned .
These , first in Crete And Ida known , thence on the snowy top Of cold Olympus ruled the middle air , Their highest heaven ; or on the Delphian cliff , Or in Dodona , and through all the bounds Of Doric land ; or who with Saturn old Fled over Adria to th ' Hesperian fields , And o ' er the Celtic roamed the utmost Isles .
All these and more came flocking ; but with looks Downcast and damp ; yet such wherein appeared Obscure some glimpse of joy to have found their Chief Not in despair , to have found themselves not lost In loss itself ; which on his countenance cast Like doubtful hue .
But he , his wonted pride Soon recollecting , with high words , that bore Semblance of worth , not substance , gently raised Their fainting courage , and dispelled their fears .
Then straight commands that , at the warlike sound Of trumpets loud and clarions , be upreared His mighty standard .
That proud honour claimed Azazel as his right , a Cherub tall : Who forthwith from the glittering staff unfurled Th ' imperial ensign ; which , full high advanced , Shone like a meteor streaming to the wind , With gems and golden lustre rich emblazed , Seraphic arms and trophies ; all the while Sonorous metal blowing martial sounds : At which the universal host up - sent A shout that tore Hell ' s concave , and beyond Frighted the reign of Chaos and old Night .
All in a moment through the gloom were seen Ten thousand banners rise into the air , With orient colours waving : with them rose A forest huge of spears ; and thronging helms Appeared , and serried shields in thick array Of depth immeasurable .
Anon they move In perfect phalanx to the Dorian mood Of flutes and soft recorders -- such as raised To height of noblest temper heroes old Arming to battle , and instead of rage Deliberate valour breathed , firm , and unmoved With dread of death to flight or foul retreat ; Nor wanting power to mitigate and swage With solemn touches troubled thoughts , and chase Anguish and doubt and fear and sorrow and pain From mortal or immortal minds .
Thus they , Breathing united force with fixed thought , Moved on in silence to soft pipes that charmed Their painful steps o ' er the burnt soil .
And now Advanced in view they stand -- a horrid front Of dreadful length and dazzling arms , in guise Of warriors old , with ordered spear and shield , Awaiting what command their mighty Chief Had to impose .
He through the armed files Darts his experienced eye , and soon traverse The whole battalion views -- their order due , Their visages and stature as of gods ; Their number last he sums .
And now his heart Distends with pride , and , hardening in his strength , Glories : for never , since created Man , Met such embodied force as , named with these , Could merit more than that small infantry Warred on by cranes -- though all the giant brood Of Phlegra with th ' heroic race were joined That fought at Thebes and Ilium , on each side Mixed with auxiliar gods ; and what resounds In fable or romance of Uther ' s son , Begirt with British and Armoric knights ; And all who since , baptized or infidel , Jousted in Aspramont , or Montalban , Damasco , or Marocco , or Trebisond , Or whom Biserta sent from Afric shore When Charlemain with all his peerage fell By Fontarabbia .
Thus far these beyond Compare of mortal prowess , yet observed Their dread Commander .
He , above the rest In shape and gesture proudly eminent , Stood like a tower .
His form had yet not lost All her original brightness , nor appeared Less than Archangel ruined , and th ' excess Of glory obscured : as when the sun new - risen Looks through the horizontal misty air Shorn of his beams , or , from behind the moon , In dim eclipse , disastrous twilight sheds On half the nations , and with fear of change Perplexes monarchs .
Darkened so , yet shone Above them all th ' Archangel : but his face Deep scars of thunder had intrenched , and care Sat on his faded cheek , but under brows Of dauntless courage , and considerate pride Waiting revenge .
Cruel his eye , but cast Signs of remorse and passion , to behold The fellows of his crime , the followers rather ( Far other once beheld in bliss ), condemned For ever now to have their lot in pain -- Millions of Spirits for his fault amerced Of Heaven , and from eteranl splendours flung For his revolt -- yet faithful how they stood , Their glory withered ; as , when heaven ' s fire Hath scathed the forest oaks or mountain pines , With singed top their stately growth , though bare , Stands on the blasted heath .
He now prepared To speak ; whereat their doubled ranks they bend From wing to wing , and half enclose him round With all his peers : attention held them mute .
Thrice he assayed , and thrice , in spite of scorn , Tears , such as Angels weep , burst forth : at last Words interwove with sighs found out their way :-- " O myriads of immortal Spirits !
O Powers Matchless , but with th ' Almighth !-- and that strife Was not inglorious , though th ' event was dire , As this place testifies , and this dire change , Hateful to utter .
But what power of mind , Forseeing or presaging , from the depth Of knowledge past or present , could have feared How such united force of gods , how such As stood like these , could ever know repulse ?
For who can yet believe , though after loss , That all these puissant legions , whose exile Hath emptied Heaven , shall fail to re - ascend , Self - raised , and repossess their native seat ?
For me , be witness all the host of Heaven , If counsels different , or danger shunned By me , have lost our hopes .
But he who reigns Monarch in Heaven till then as one secure Sat on his throne , upheld by old repute , Consent or custom , and his regal state Put forth at full , but still his strength concealed -- Which tempted our attempt , and wrought our fall .
Henceforth his might we know , and know our own , So as not either to provoke , or dread New war provoked : our better part remains To work in close design , by fraud or guile , What force effected not ; that he no less At length from us may find , who overcomes By force hath overcome but half his foe .
Space may produce new Worlds ; whereof so rife There went a fame in Heaven that he ere long Intended to create , and therein plant A generation whom his choice regard Should favour equal to the Sons of Heaven .
Thither , if but to pry , shall be perhaps Our first eruption -- thither , or elsewhere ; For this infernal pit shall never hold Celestial Spirits in bondage , nor th ' Abyss Long under darkness cover .
But these thoughts Full counsel must mature .
Peace is despaired ; For who can think submission ?
War , then , war Open or understood , must be resolved ."
He spake ; and , to confirm his words , outflew Millions of flaming swords , drawn from the thighs Of mighty Cherubim ; the sudden blaze Far round illumined Hell .
Highly they raged Against the Highest , and fierce with grasped arms Clashed on their sounding shields the din of war , Hurling defiance toward the vault of Heaven .
There stood a hill not far , whose grisly top Belched fire and rolling smoke ; the rest entire Shone with a glossy scurf -- undoubted sign That in his womb was hid metallic ore , The work of sulphur .
Thither , winged with speed , A numerous brigade hastened : as when bands Of pioneers , with spade and pickaxe armed , Forerun the royal camp , to trench a field , Or cast a rampart .
Mammon led them on -- Mammon , the least erected Spirit that fell From Heaven ; for even in Heaven his looks and thoughts Were always downward bent , admiring more The riches of heaven ' s pavement , trodden gold , Than aught divine or holy else enjoyed In vision beatific .
By him first Men also , and by his suggestion taught , Ransacked the centre , and with impious hands Rifled the bowels of their mother Earth For treasures better hid .
Soon had his crew Opened into the hill a spacious wound , And digged out ribs of gold .
Let none admire That riches grow in Hell ; that soil may best Deserve the precious bane .
And here let those Who boast in mortal things , and wondering tell Of Babel , and the works of Memphian kings , Learn how their greatest monuments of fame And strength , and art , are easily outdone By Spirits reprobate , and in an hour What in an age they , with incessant toil And hands innumerable , scarce perform .
Nigh on the plain , in many cells prepared , That underneath had veins of liquid fire Sluiced from the lake , a second multitude With wondrous art founded the massy ore , Severing each kind , and scummed the bullion - dross .
A third as soon had formed within the ground A various mould , and from the boiling cells By strange conveyance filled each hollow nook ; As in an organ , from one blast of wind , To many a row of pipes the sound - board breathes .
Anon out of the earth a fabric huge Rose like an exhalation , with the sound Of dulcet symphonies and voices sweet -- Built like a temple , where pilasters round Were set , and Doric pillars overlaid With golden architrave ; nor did there want Cornice or frieze , with bossy sculptures graven ; The roof was fretted gold .
Not Babylon Nor great Alcairo such magnificence Equalled in all their glories , to enshrine Belus or Serapis their gods , or seat Their kings , when Egypt with Assyria strove In wealth and luxury .
Th ' ascending pile Stood fixed her stately height , and straight the doors , Opening their brazen folds , discover , wide Within , her ample spaces o ' er the smooth And level pavement : from the arched roof , Pendent by subtle magic , many a row Of starry lamps and blazing cressets , fed With naptha and asphaltus , yielded light As from a sky .
The hasty multitude Admiring entered ; and the work some praise , And some the architect .
His hand was known In Heaven by many a towered structure high , Where sceptred Angels held their residence , And sat as Princes , whom the supreme King Exalted to such power , and gave to rule , Each in his Hierarchy , the Orders bright .
Nor was his name unheard or unadored In ancient Greece ; and in Ausonian land Men called him Mulciber ; and how he fell From Heaven they fabled , thrown by angry Jove Sheer o ' er the crystal battlements : from morn To noon he fell , from noon to dewy eve , A summer ' s day , and with the setting sun Dropt from the zenith , like a falling star , On Lemnos , th ' Aegaean isle .
Thus they relate , Erring ; for he with this rebellious rout Fell long before ; nor aught aviled him now To have built in Heaven high towers ; nor did he scape By all his engines , but was headlong sent , With his industrious crew , to build in Hell .
Meanwhile the winged Heralds , by command Of sovereign power , with awful ceremony And trumpet ' s sound , throughout the host proclaim A solemn council forthwith to be held At Pandemonium , the high capital Of Satan and his peers .
Their summons called From every band and squared regiment By place or choice the worthiest : they anon With hundreds and with thousands trooping came Attended .
All access was thronged ; the gates And porches wide , but chief the spacious hall ( Though like a covered field , where champions bold Wont ride in armed , and at the Soldan ' s chair Defied the best of Paynim chivalry To mortal combat , or career with lance ), Thick swarmed , both on the ground and in the air , Brushed with the hiss of rustling wings .
As bees In spring - time , when the Sun with Taurus rides .
Pour forth their populous youth about the hive In clusters ; they among fresh dews and flowers Fly to and fro , or on the smoothed plank , The suburb of their straw - built citadel , New rubbed with balm , expatiate , and confer Their state - affairs : so thick the airy crowd Swarmed and were straitened ; till , the signal given , Behold a wonder !
They but now who seemed In bigness to surpass Earth ' s giant sons , Now less than smallest dwarfs , in narrow room Throng numberless -- like that pygmean race Beyond the Indian mount ; or faery elves , Whose midnight revels , by a forest - side Or fountain , some belated peasant sees , Or dreams he sees , while overhead the Moon Sits arbitress , and nearer to the Earth Wheels her pale course : they , on their mirth and dance Intent , with jocund music charm his ear ; At once with joy and fear his heart rebounds .
Thus incorporeal Spirits to smallest forms Reduced their shapes immense , and were at large , Though without number still , amidst the hall Of that infernal court .
But far within , And in their own dimensions like themselves , The great Seraphic Lords and Cherubim In close recess and secret conclave sat , A thousand demi - gods on golden seats , Frequent and full .
After short silence then , And summons read , the great consult began .
Book II
High on a throne of royal state , which far Outshone the wealth or Ormus and of Ind , Or where the gorgeous East with richest hand Showers on her kings barbaric pearl and gold , Satan exalted sat , by merit raised To that bad eminence ; and , from despair Thus high uplifted beyond hope , aspires Beyond thus high , insatiate to pursue Vain war with Heaven ; and , by success untaught , His proud imaginations thus displayed :-- " Powers and Dominions , Deities of Heaven !-- For , since no deep within her gulf can hold Immortal vigour , though oppressed and fallen , I give not Heaven for lost : from this descent Celestial Virtues rising will appear More glorious and more dread than from no fall , And trust themselves to fear no second fate !-- Me though just right , and the fixed laws of Heaven , Did first create your leader -- next , free choice With what besides in council or in fight Hath been achieved of merit -- yet this loss , Thus far at least recovered , hath much more Established in a safe , unenvied throne , Yielded with full consent .
The happier state In Heaven , which follows dignity , might draw Envy from each inferior ; but who here Will envy whom the highest place exposes Foremost to stand against the Thunderer ' s aim Your bulwark , and condemns to greatest share Of endless pain ?
Where there is , then , no good For which to strive , no strife can grow up there From faction : for none sure will claim in Hell Precedence ; none whose portion is so small Of present pain that with ambitious mind Will covet more !
With this advantage , then , To union , and firm faith , and firm accord , More than can be in Heaven , we now return To claim our just inheritance of old , Surer to prosper than prosperity Could have assured us ; and by what best way , Whether of open war or covert guile , We now debate .
Who can advise may speak ."
He ceased ; and next him Moloch , sceptred king , Stood up -- the strongest and the fiercest Spirit That fought in Heaven , now fiercer by despair .
His trust was with th ' Eternal to be deemed Equal in strength , and rather than be less Cared not to be at all ; with that care lost Went all his fear : of God , or Hell , or worse , He recked not , and these words thereafter spake :-- " My sentence is for open war .
Of wiles , More unexpert , I boast not : them let those Contrive who need , or when they need ; not now .
For , while they sit contriving , shall the rest -- Millions that stand in arms , and longing wait The signal to ascend -- sit lingering here , Heaven ' s fugitives , and for their dwelling - place Accept this dark opprobrious den of shame , The prison of his ryranny who reigns By our delay ?
No !
let us rather choose , Armed with Hell - flames and fury , all at once O ' er Heaven ' s high towers to force resistless way , Turning our tortures into horrid arms Against the Torturer ; when , to meet the noise Of his almighty engine , he shall hear Infernal thunder , and , for lightning , see Black fire and horror shot with equal rage Among his Angels , and his throne itself Mixed with Tartarean sulphur and strange fire , His own invented torments .
But perhaps The way seems difficult , and steep to scale With upright wing against a higher foe !
Let such bethink them , if the sleepy drench Of that forgetful lake benumb not still , That in our porper motion we ascend Up to our native seat ; descent and fall To us is adverse .
Who but felt of late , When the fierce foe hung on our broken rear Insulting , and pursued us through the Deep , With what compulsion and laborious flight We sunk thus low ?
Th ' ascent is easy , then ; Th ' event is feared !
Should we again provoke Our stronger , some worse way his wrath may find To our destruction , if there be in Hell Fear to be worse destroyed !
What can be worse Than to dwell here , driven out from bliss , condemned In this abhorred deep to utter woe !
Where pain of unextinguishable fire Must exercise us without hope of end The vassals of his anger , when the scourge Inexorably , and the torturing hour , Calls us to penance ?
More destroyed than thus , We should be quite abolished , and expire .
What fear we then ?
what doubt we to incense His utmost ire ?
which , to the height enraged , Will either quite consume us , and reduce To nothing this essential -- happier far Than miserable to have eternal being !-- Or , if our substance be indeed divine , And cannot cease to be , we are at worst On this side nothing ; and by proof we feel Our power sufficient to disturb his Heaven , And with perpetual inroads to alarm , Though inaccessible , his fatal throne : Which , if not victory , is yet revenge ."
He ended frowning , and his look denounced Desperate revenge , and battle dangerous To less than gods .
On th ' other side up rose Belial , in act more graceful and humane .
A fairer person lost not Heaven ; he seemed For dignity composed , and high exploit .
But all was false and hollow ; though his tongue Dropped manna , and could make the worse appear The better reason , to perplex and dash Maturest counsels : for his thoughts were low -- To vice industrious , but to nobler deeds Timorous and slothful .
Yet he pleased the ear , And with persuasive accent thus began :-- " I should be much for open war , O Peers , As not behind in hate , if what was urged Main reason to persuade immediate war Did not dissuade me most , and seem to cast Ominous conjecture on the whole success ; When he who most excels in fact of arms , In what he counsels and in what excels Mistrustful , grounds his courage on despair And utter dissolution , as the scope Of all his aim , after some dire revenge .
First , what revenge ?
The towers of Heaven are filled With armed watch , that render all access Impregnable : oft on the bodering Deep Encamp their legions , or with obscure wing Scout far and wide into the realm of Night , Scorning surprise .
Or , could we break our way By force , and at our heels all Hell should rise With blackest insurrection to confound Heaven ' s purest light , yet our great Enemy , All incorruptible , would on his throne Sit unpolluted , and th ' ethereal mould , Incapable of stain , would soon expel Her mischief , and purge off the baser fire , Victorious .
Thus repulsed , our final hope Is flat despair : we must exasperate Th ' Almighty Victor to spend all his rage ; And that must end us ; that must be our cure -- To be no more .
Sad cure !
for who would lose , Though full of pain , this intellectual being , Those thoughts that wander through eternity , To perish rather , swallowed up and lost In the wide womb of uncreated Night , Devoid of sense and motion ?
And who knows , Let this be good , whether our angry Foe Can give it , or will ever ?
How he can Is doubtful ; that he never will is sure .
Will he , so wise , let loose at once his ire , Belike through impotence or unaware , To give his enemies their wish , and end Them in his anger whom his anger saves To punish endless ?
' Wherefore cease we , then ?'
Say they who counsel war ; ' we are decreed , Reserved , and destined to eternal woe ; Whatever doing , what can we suffer more , What can we suffer worse ?'
Is this , then , worst -- Thus sitting , thus consulting , thus in arms ?
What when we fled amain , pursued and struck With Heaven ' s afflicting thunder , and besought The Deep to shelter us ?
This Hell then seemed A refuge from those wounds .
Or when we lay Chained on the burning lake ?
That sure was worse .
What if the breath that kindled those grim fires , Awaked , should blow them into sevenfold rage , And plunge us in the flames ; or from above Should intermitted vengeance arm again His red right hand to plague us ?
What if all Her stores were opened , and this firmament Of Hell should spout her cataracts of fire , Impendent horrors , threatening hideous fall One day upon our heads ; while we perhaps , Designing or exhorting glorious war , Caught in a fiery tempest , shall be hurled , Each on his rock transfixed , the sport and prey Or racking whirlwinds , or for ever sunk Under yon boiling ocean , wrapt in chains , There to converse with everlasting groans , Unrespited , unpitied , unreprieved , Ages of hopeless end ?
This would be worse .
War , therefore , open or concealed , alike My voice dissuades ; for what can force or guile With him , or who deceive his mind , whose eye Views all things at one view ?
He from Heaven ' s height All these our motions vain sees and derides , Not more almighty to resist our might Than wise to frustrate all our plots and wiles .
Shall we , then , live thus vile -- the race of Heaven Thus trampled , thus expelled , to suffer here Chains and these torments ?
Better these than worse , By my advice ; since fate inevitable Subdues us , and omnipotent decree , The Victor ' s will .
To suffer , as to do , Our strength is equal ; nor the law unjust That so ordains .
This was at first resolved , If we were wise , against so great a foe Contending , and so doubtful what might fall .
I laugh when those who at the spear are bold And venturous , if that fail them , shrink , and fear What yet they know must follow -- to endure Exile , or igominy , or bonds , or pain , The sentence of their Conqueror .
This is now Our doom ; which if we can sustain and bear , Our Supreme Foe in time may much remit His anger , and perhaps , thus far removed , Not mind us not offending , satisfied With what is punished ; whence these raging fires Will slacken , if his breath stir not their flames .
Our purer essence then will overcome Their noxious vapour ; or , inured , not feel ; Or , changed at length , and to the place conformed In temper and in nature , will receive Familiar the fierce heat ; and , void of pain , This horror will grow mild , this darkness light ; Besides what hope the never - ending flight Of future days may bring , what chance , what change Worth waiting -- since our present lot appears For happy though but ill , for ill not worst , If we procure not to ourselves more woe ."
Thus Belial , with words clothed in reason ' s garb , Counselled ignoble ease and peaceful sloth , Not peace ; and after him thus Mammon spake :-- " Either to disenthrone the King of Heaven We war , if war be best , or to regain Our own right lost .
Him to unthrone we then May hope , when everlasting Fate shall yield To fickle Chance , and Chaos judge the strife .
The former , vain to hope , argues as vain The latter ; for what place can be for us Within Heaven ' s bound , unless Heaven ' s Lord supreme We overpower ?
Suppose he should relent And publish grace to all , on promise made Of new subjection ; with what eyes could we Stand in his presence humble , and receive Strict laws imposed , to celebrate his throne With warbled hymns , and to his Godhead sing Forced hallelujahs , while he lordly sits Our envied sovereign , and his altar breathes Ambrosial odours and ambrosial flowers , Our servile offerings ?
This must be our task In Heaven , this our delight .
How wearisome Eternity so spent in worship paid To whom we hate !
Let us not then pursue , By force impossible , by leave obtained Unacceptable , though in Heaven , our state Of splendid vassalage ; but rather seek Our own good from ourselves , and from our own Live to ourselves , though in this vast recess , Free and to none accountable , preferring Hard liberty before the easy yoke Of servile pomp .
Our greatness will appear Then most conspicuous when great things of small , Useful of hurtful , prosperous of adverse , We can create , and in what place soe ' er Thrive under evil , and work ease out of pain Through labour and endurance .
This deep world Of darkness do we dread ?
How oft amidst Thick clouds and dark doth Heaven ' s all - ruling Sire Choose to reside , his glory unobscured , And with the majesty of darkness round Covers his throne , from whence deep thunders roar .
Mustering their rage , and Heaven resembles Hell !
As he our darkness , cannot we his light Imitate when we please ?
This desert soil Wants not her hidden lustre , gems and gold ; Nor want we skill or art from whence to raise Magnificence ; and what can Heaven show more ?
Our torments also may , in length of time , Become our elements , these piercing fires As soft as now severe , our temper changed Into their temper ; which must needs remove The sensible of pain .
All things invite To peaceful counsels , and the settled state Of order , how in safety best we may Compose our present evils , with regard Of what we are and where , dismissing quite All thoughts of war .
Ye have what I advise ."
He scarce had finished , when such murmur filled Th ' assembly as when hollow rocks retain The sound of blustering winds , which all night long Had roused the sea , now with hoarse cadence lull Seafaring men o ' erwatched , whose bark by chance Or pinnace , anchors in a craggy bay After the tempest .
Such applause was heard As Mammon ended , and his sentence pleased , Advising peace : for such another field They dreaded worse than Hell ; so much the fear Of thunder and the sword of Michael Wrought still within them ; and no less desire To found this nether empire , which might rise , By policy and long process of time , In emulation opposite to Heaven .
Which when Beelzebub perceived -- than whom , Satan except , none higher sat -- with grave Aspect he rose , and in his rising seemed A pillar of state .
Deep on his front engraven Deliberation sat , and public care ; And princely counsel in his face yet shone , Majestic , though in ruin .
Sage he stood With Atlantean shoulders , fit to bear The weight of mightiest monarchies ; his look Drew audience and attention still as night Or summer ' s noontide air , while thus he spake :-- " Thrones and Imperial Powers , Offspring of Heaven , Ethereal Virtues !
or these titles now Must we renounce , and , changing style , be called Princes of Hell ?
for so the popular vote Inclines -- here to continue , and build up here A growing empire ; doubtless !
while we dream , And know not that the King of Heaven hath doomed This place our dungeon , not our safe retreat Beyond his potent arm , to live exempt From Heaven ' s high jurisdiction , in new league Banded against his throne , but to remain In strictest bondage , though thus far removed , Under th ' inevitable curb , reserved His captive multitude .
For he , to be sure , In height or depth , still first and last will reign Sole king , and of his kingdom lose no part By our revolt , but over Hell extend His empire , and with iron sceptre rule Us here , as with his golden those in Heaven .
What sit we then projecting peace and war ?
War hath determined us and foiled with loss Irreparable ; terms of peace yet none Vouchsafed or sought ; for what peace will be given To us enslaved , but custody severe , And stripes and arbitrary punishment Inflicted ?
and what peace can we return , But , to our power , hostility and hate , Untamed reluctance , and revenge , though slow , Yet ever plotting how the Conqueror least May reap his conquest , and may least rejoice In doing what we most in suffering feel ?
Nor will occasion want , nor shall we need With dangerous expedition to invade Heaven , whose high walls fear no assault or siege , Or ambush from the Deep .
What if we find Some easier enterprise ?
There is a place ( If ancient and prophetic fame in Heaven Err not )-- another World , the happy seat Of some new race , called Man , about this time To be created like to us , though less In power and excellence , but favoured more Of him who rules above ; so was his will Pronounced among the Gods , and by an oath That shook Heaven ' s whole circumference confirmed .
Thither let us bend all our thoughts , to learn What creatures there inhabit , of what mould Or substance , how endued , and what their power And where their weakness : how attempted best , By force of subtlety .
Though Heaven be shut , And Heaven ' s high Arbitrator sit secure In his own strength , this place may lie exposed , The utmost border of his kingdom , left To their defence who hold it : here , perhaps , Some advantageous act may be achieved By sudden onset -- either with Hell - fire To waste his whole creation , or possess All as our own , and drive , as we were driven , The puny habitants ; or , if not drive , Seduce them to our party , that their God May prove their foe , and with repenting hand Abolish his own works .
This would surpass Common revenge , and interrupt his joy In our confusion , and our joy upraise In his disturbance ; when his darling sons , Hurled headlong to partake with us , shall curse Their frail original , and faded bliss -- Faded so soon !
Advise if this be worth Attempting , or to sit in darkness here Hatching vain empires ."
Thus beelzebub Pleaded his devilish counsel -- first devised By Satan , and in part proposed : for whence , But from the author of all ill , could spring So deep a malice , to confound the race Of mankind in one root , and Earth with Hell To mingle and involve , done all to spite The great Creator ?
But their spite still serves His glory to augment .
The bold design Pleased highly those infernal States , and joy Sparkled in all their eyes : with full assent They vote : whereat his speech he thus renews :-- " Well have ye judged , well ended long debate , Synod of Gods , and , like to what ye are , Great things resolved , which from the lowest deep Will once more lift us up , in spite of fate , Nearer our ancient seat -- perhaps in view Of those bright confines , whence , with neighbouring arms , And opportune excursion , we may chance Re - enter Heaven ; or else in some mild zone Dwell , not unvisited of Heaven ' s fair light , Secure , and at the brightening orient beam Purge off this gloom : the soft delicious air , To heal the scar of these corrosive fires , Shall breathe her balm .
But , first , whom shall we send In search of this new World ?
whom shall we find Sufficient ?
who shall tempt with wandering feet The dark , unbottomed , infinite Abyss , And through the palpable obscure find out His uncouth way , or spread his airy flight , Upborne with indefatigable wings Over the vast abrupt , ere he arrive The happy Isle ?
What strength , what art , can then Suffice , or what evasion bear him safe , Through the strict senteries and stations thick Of Angels watching round ?
Here he had need All circumspection : and we now no less Choice in our suffrage ; for on whom we send The weight of all , and our last hope , relies ."
This said , he sat ; and expectation held His look suspense , awaiting who appeared To second , or oppose , or undertake The perilous attempt .
But all sat mute , Pondering the danger with deep thoughts ; and each In other ' s countenance read his own dismay , Astonished .
None among the choice and prime Of those Heaven - warring champions could be found So hardy as to proffer or accept , Alone , the dreadful voyage ; till , at last , Satan , whom now transcendent glory raised Above his fellows , with monarchal pride Conscious of highest worth , unmoved thus spake :-- " O Progeny of Heaven !
Empyreal Thrones !
With reason hath deep silence and demur Seized us , though undismayed .
Long is the way And hard , that out of Hell leads up to light .
Our prison strong , this huge convex of fire , Outrageous to devour , immures us round Ninefold ; and gates of burning adamant , Barred over us , prohibit all egress .
These passed , if any pass , the void profound Of unessential Night receives him next , Wide - gaping , and with utter loss of being Threatens him , plunged in that abortive gulf .
If thence he scape , into whatever world , Or unknown region , what remains him less Than unknown dangers , and as hard escape ?
But I should ill become this throne , O Peers , And this imperial sovereignty , adorned With splendour , armed with power , if aught proposed And judged of public moment in the shape Of difficulty or danger , could deter Me from attempting .
Wherefore do I assume These royalties , and not refuse to reign , Refusing to accept as great a share Of hazard as of honour , due alike To him who reigns , and so much to him due Of hazard more as he above the rest High honoured sits ?
Go , therefore , mighty Powers , Terror of Heaven , though fallen ; intend at home , While here shall be our home , what best may ease The present misery , and render Hell More tolerable ; if there be cure or charm To respite , or deceive , or slack the pain Of this ill mansion : intermit no watch Against a wakeful foe , while I abroad Through all the coasts of dark destruction seek Deliverance for us all .
This enterprise None shall partake with me ."
Thus saying , rose The Monarch , and prevented all reply ; Prudent lest , from his resolution raised , Others among the chief might offer now , Certain to be refused , what erst they feared , And , so refused , might in opinion stand His rivals , winning cheap the high repute Which he through hazard huge must earn .
But they Dreaded not more th ' adventure than his voice Forbidding ; and at once with him they rose .
Their rising all at once was as the sound Of thunder heard remote .
Towards him they bend With awful reverence prone , and as a God Extol him equal to the Highest in Heaven .
Nor failed they to express how much they praised That for the general safety he despised His own : for neither do the Spirits damned Lose all their virtue ; lest bad men should boast Their specious deeds on earth , which glory excites , Or close ambition varnished o ' er with zeal .
Thus they their doubtful consultations dark Ended , rejoicing in their matchless Chief : As , when from mountain - tops the dusky clouds Ascending , while the north wind sleeps , o ' erspread Heaven ' s cheerful face , the louring element Scowls o ' er the darkened landscape snow or shower , If chance the radiant sun , with farewell sweet , Extend his evening beam , the fields revive , The birds their notes renew , and bleating herds Attest their joy , that hill and valley rings .
O shame to men !
Devil with devil damned Firm concord holds ; men only disagree Of creatures rational , though under hope Of heavenly grace , and , God proclaiming peace , Yet live in hatred , enmity , and strife Among themselves , and levy cruel wars Wasting the earth , each other to destroy : As if ( which might induce us to accord ) Man had not hellish foes enow besides , That day and night for his destruction wait !
The Stygian council thus dissolved ; and forth In order came the grand infernal Peers : Midst came their mighty Paramount , and seemed Alone th ' antagonist of Heaven , nor less Than Hell ' s dread Emperor , with pomp supreme , And god - like imitated state : him round A globe of fiery Seraphim enclosed With bright emblazonry , and horrent arms .
Then of their session ended they bid cry With trumpet ' s regal sound the great result : Toward the four winds four speedy Cherubim Put to their mouths the sounding alchemy , By herald ' s voice explained ; the hollow Abyss Heard far adn wide , and all the host of Hell With deafening shout returned them loud acclaim .
Thence more at ease their minds , and somewhat raised By false presumptuous hope , the ranged Powers Disband ; and , wandering , each his several way Pursues , as inclination or sad choice Leads him perplexed , where he may likeliest find Truce to his restless thoughts , and entertain The irksome hours , till his great Chief return .
Part on the plain , or in the air sublime , Upon the wing or in swift race contend , As at th ' Olympian games or Pythian fields ; Part curb their fiery steeds , or shun the goal With rapid wheels , or fronted brigades form : As when , to warn proud cities , war appears Waged in the troubled sky , and armies rush To battle in the clouds ; before each van Prick forth the airy knights , and couch their spears , Till thickest legions close ; with feats of arms From either end of heaven the welkin burns .
Others , with vast Typhoean rage , more fell , Rend up both rocks and hills , and ride the air In whirlwind ; Hell scarce holds the wild uproar :-- As when Alcides , from Oechalia crowned With conquest , felt th ' envenomed robe , and tore Through pain up by the roots Thessalian pines , And Lichas from the top of Oeta threw Into th ' Euboic sea .
Others , more mild , Retreated in a silent valley , sing With notes angelical to many a harp Their own heroic deeds , and hapless fall By doom of battle , and complain that Fate Free Virtue should enthrall to Force or Chance .
Their song was partial ; but the harmony ( What could it less when Spirits immortal sing ?)
Suspended Hell , and took with ravishment The thronging audience .
In discourse more sweet ( For Eloquence the Soul , Song charms the Sense ) Others apart sat on a hill retired , In thoughts more elevate , and reasoned high Of Providence , Foreknowledge , Will , and Fate -- Fixed fate , free will , foreknowledge absolute , And found no end , in wandering mazes lost .
Of good and evil much they argued then , Of happiness and final misery , Passion and apathy , and glory and shame : Vain wisdom all , and false philosophy !-- Yet , with a pleasing sorcery , could charm Pain for a while or anguish , and excite Fallacious hope , or arm th ' obdured breast With stubborn patience as with triple steel .
Another part , in squadrons and gross bands , On bold adventure to discover wide That dismal world , if any clime perhaps Might yield them easier habitation , bend Four ways their flying march , along the banks Of four infernal rivers , that disgorge Into the burning lake their baleful streams -- Abhorred Styx , the flood of deadly hate ; Sad Acheron of sorrow , black and deep ; Cocytus , named of lamentation loud Heard on the rueful stream ; fierce Phlegeton , Whose waves of torrent fire inflame with rage .
Far off from these , a slow and silent stream , Lethe , the river of oblivion , rolls Her watery labyrinth , whereof who drinks Forthwith his former state and being forgets -- Forgets both joy and grief , pleasure and pain .
Beyond this flood a frozen continent Lies dark and wild , beat with perpetual storms Of whirlwind and dire hail , which on firm land Thaws not , but gathers heap , and ruin seems Of ancient pile ; all else deep snow and ice , A gulf profound as that Serbonian bog Betwixt Damiata and Mount Casius old , Where armies whole have sunk : the parching air Burns frore , and cold performs th ' effect of fire .
Thither , by harpy - footed Furies haled , At certain revolutions all the damned Are brought ; and feel by turns the bitter change Of fierce extremes , extremes by change more fierce , From beds of raging fire to starve in ice Their soft ethereal warmth , and there to pine Immovable , infixed , and frozen round Periods of time ,-- thence hurried back to fire .
They ferry over this Lethean sound Both to and fro , their sorrow to augment , And wish and struggle , as they pass , to reach The tempting stream , with one small drop to lose In sweet forgetfulness all pain and woe , All in one moment , and so near the brink ; But Fate withstands , and , to oppose th ' attempt , Medusa with Gorgonian terror guards The ford , and of itself the water flies All taste of living wight , as once it fled The lip of Tantalus .
Thus roving on In confused march forlorn , th ' adventurous bands , With shuddering horror pale , and eyes aghast , Viewed first their lamentable lot , and found No rest .
Through many a dark and dreary vale They passed , and many a region dolorous , O ' er many a frozen , many a fiery alp , Rocks , caves , lakes , fens , bogs , dens , and shades of death -- A universe of death , which God by curse Created evil , for evil only good ; Where all life dies , death lives , and Nature breeds , Perverse , all monstrous , all prodigious things , Obominable , inutterable , and worse Than fables yet have feigned or fear conceived , Gorgons , and Hydras , and Chimeras dire .
Meanwhile the Adversary of God and Man , Satan , with thoughts inflamed of highest design , Puts on swift wings , and toward the gates of Hell Explores his solitary flight : sometimes He scours the right hand coast , sometimes the left ; Now shaves with level wing the deep , then soars Up to the fiery concave towering high .
As when far off at sea a fleet descried Hangs in the clouds , by equinoctial winds Close sailing from Bengala , or the isles Of Ternate and Tidore , whence merchants bring Their spicy drugs ; they on the trading flood , Through the wide Ethiopian to the Cape , Ply stemming nightly toward the pole : so seemed Far off the flying Fiend .
At last appear Hell - bounds , high reaching to the horrid roof , And thrice threefold the gates ; three folds were brass , Three iron , three of adamantine rock , Impenetrable , impaled with circling fire , Yet unconsumed .
Before the gates there sat On either side a formidable Shape .
The one seemed woman to the waist , and fair , But ended foul in many a scaly fold , Voluminous and vast -- a serpent armed With mortal sting .
About her middle round A cry of Hell - hounds never - ceasing barked With wide Cerberean mouths full loud , and rung A hideous peal ; yet , when they list , would creep , If aught disturbed their noise , into her womb , And kennel there ; yet there still barked and howled Within unseen .
Far less abhorred than these Vexed Scylla , bathing in the sea that parts Calabria from the hoarse Trinacrian shore ; Nor uglier follow the night - hag , when , called In secret , riding through the air she comes , Lured with the smell of infant blood , to dance With Lapland witches , while the labouring moon Eclipses at their charms .
The other Shape -- If shape it might be called that shape had none Distinguishable in member , joint , or limb ; Or substance might be called that shadow seemed , For each seemed either -- black it stood as Night , Fierce as ten Furies , terrible as Hell , And shook a dreadful dart : what seemed his head The likeness of a kingly crown had on .
Satan was now at hand , and from his seat The monster moving onward came as fast With horrid strides ; Hell trembled as he strode .
Th ' undaunted Fiend what this might be admired -- Admired , not feared ( God and his Son except , Created thing naught valued he nor shunned ), And with disdainful look thus first began :-- " Whence and what art thou , execrable Shape , That dar ' st , though grim and terrible , advance Thy miscreated front athwart my way To yonder gates ?
Through them I mean to pass , That be assured , without leave asked of thee .
Retire ; or taste thy folly , and learn by proof , Hell - born , not to contend with Spirits of Heaven ."
To whom the Goblin , full of wrath , replied :-- " Art thou that traitor Angel ?
art thou he , Who first broke peace in Heaven and faith , till then Unbroken , and in proud rebellious arms Drew after him the third part of Heaven ' s sons , Conjured against the Highest -- for which both thou And they , outcast from God , are here condemned To waste eternal days in woe and pain ?
And reckon ' st thou thyself with Spirits of Heaven Hell - doomed , and breath ' st defiance here and scorn , Where I reign king , and , to enrage thee more , Thy king and lord ?
Back to thy punishment , False fugitive ; and to thy speed add wings , Lest with a whip of scorpions I pursue Thy lingering , or with one stroke of this dart Strange horror seize thee , and pangs unfelt before ."
So spake the grisly Terror , and in shape , So speaking and so threatening , grew tenfold , More dreadful and deform .
On th ' other side , Incensed with indignation , Satan stood Unterrified , and like a comet burned , That fires the length of Ophiuchus huge In th ' arctic sky , and from his horrid hair Shakes pestilence and war .
Each at the head Levelled his deadly aim ; their fatal hands No second stroke intend ; and such a frown Each cast at th ' other as when two black clouds , With heaven ' s artillery fraught , came rattling on Over the Caspian ,-- then stand front to front Hovering a space , till winds the signal blow To join their dark encounter in mid - air .
So frowned the mighty combatants that Hell Grew darker at their frown ; so matched they stood ; For never but once more was wither like To meet so great a foe .
And now great deeds Had been achieved , whereof all Hell had rung , Had not the snaky Sorceress , that sat Fast by Hell - gate and kept the fatal key , Risen , and with hideous outcry rushed between .
" O father , what intends thy hand ," she cried , " Against thy only son ?
What fury , O son , Possesses thee to bend that mortal dart Against thy father ' s head ?
And know ' st for whom ?
For him who sits above , and laughs the while At thee , ordained his drudge to execute Whate ' er his wrath , which he calls justice , bids -- His wrath , which one day will destroy ye both !"
She spake , and at her words the hellish Pest Forbore : then these to her Satan returned :-- " So strange thy outcry , and thy words so strange Thou interposest , that my sudden hand , Prevented , spares to tell thee yet by deeds What it intends , till first I know of thee What thing thou art , thus double - formed , and why , In this infernal vale first met , thou call ' st Me father , and that phantasm call ' st my son .
I know thee not , nor ever saw till now Sight more detestable than him and thee ."
T ' whom thus the Portress of Hell - gate replied :-- " Hast thou forgot me , then ; and do I seem Now in thine eye so foul ?-- once deemed so fair In Heaven , when at th ' assembly , and in sight Of all the Seraphim with thee combined In bold conspiracy against Heaven ' s King , All on a sudden miserable pain Surprised thee , dim thine eyes and dizzy swum In darkness , while thy head flames thick and fast Threw forth , till on the left side opening wide , Likest to thee in shape and countenance bright , Then shining heavenly fair , a goddess armed , Out of thy head I sprung .
Amazement seized All th ' host of Heaven ; back they recoiled afraid At first , and called me Sin , and for a sign Portentous held me ; but , familiar grown , I pleased , and with attractive graces won The most averse -- thee chiefly , who , full oft Thyself in me thy perfect image viewing , Becam ' st enamoured ; and such joy thou took ' st With me in secret that my womb conceived A growing burden .
Meanwhile war arose , And fields were fought in Heaven : wherein remained ( For what could else ?)
to our Almighty Foe Clear victory ; to our part loss and rout Through all the Empyrean .
Down they fell , Driven headlong from the pitch of Heaven , down Into this Deep ; and in the general fall I also : at which time this powerful key Into my hands was given , with charge to keep These gates for ever shut , which none can pass Without my opening .
Pensive here I sat Alone ; but long I sat not , till my womb , Pregnant by thee , and now excessive grown , Prodigious motion felt and rueful throes .
At last this odious offspring whom thou seest , Thine own begotten , breaking violent way , Tore through my entrails , that , with fear and pain Distorted , all my nether shape thus grew Transformed : but he my inbred enemy Forth issued , brandishing his fatal dart , Made to destroy .
I fled , and cried out Death !
Hell trembled at the hideous name , and sighed From all her caves , and back resounded Death !
I fled ; but he pursued ( though more , it seems , Inflamed with lust than rage ), and , swifter far , Me overtook , his mother , all dismayed , And , in embraces forcible and foul Engendering with me , of that rape begot These yelling monsters , that with ceaseless cry Surround me , as thou saw ' st -- hourly conceived And hourly born , with sorrow infinite To me ; for , when they list , into the womb That bred them they return , and howl , and gnaw My bowels , their repast ; then , bursting forth Afresh , with conscious terrors vex me round , That rest or intermission none I find .
Before mine eyes in opposition sits Grim Death , my son and foe , who set them on , And me , his parent , would full soon devour For want of other prey , but that he knows His end with mine involved , and knows that I Should prove a bitter morsel , and his bane , Whenever that shall be : so Fate pronounced .
But thou , O father , I forewarn thee , shun His deadly arrow ; neither vainly hope To be invulnerable in those bright arms , Through tempered heavenly ; for that mortal dint , Save he who reigns above , none can resist ."
She finished ; and the subtle Fiend his lore Soon learned , now milder , and thus answered smooth :-- " Dear daughter -- since thou claim ' st me for thy sire , And my fair son here show ' st me , the dear pledge Of dalliance had with thee in Heaven , and joys Then sweet , now sad to mention , through dire change Befallen us unforeseen , unthought - of -- know , I come no enemy , but to set free From out this dark and dismal house of pain Both him and thee , and all the heavenly host Of Spirits that , in our just pretences armed , Fell with us from on high .
From them I go This uncouth errand sole , and one for all Myself expose , with lonely steps to tread Th ' unfounded Deep , and through the void immense To search , with wandering quest , a place foretold Should be -- and , by concurring signs , ere now Created vast and round -- a place of bliss In the purlieus of Heaven ; and therein placed A race of upstart creatures , to supply Perhaps our vacant room , though more removed , Lest Heaven , surcharged with potent multitude , Might hap to move new broils .
Be this , or aught Than this more secret , now designed , I haste To know ; and , this once known , shall soon return , And bring ye to the place where thou and Death Shall dwell at ease , and up and down unseen Wing silently the buxom air , embalmed With odours .
There ye shall be fed and filled Immeasurably ; all things shall be your prey ."
He ceased ; for both seemed highly pleased , and Death Grinned horrible a ghastly smile , to hear His famine should be filled , and blessed his maw Destined to that good hour .
No less rejoiced His mother bad , and thus bespake her sire :-- " The key of this infernal Pit , by due And by command of Heaven ' s all - powerful King , I keep , by him forbidden to unlock These adamantine gates ; against all force Death ready stands to interpose his dart , Fearless to be o ' ermatched by living might .
But what owe I to his commands above , Who hates me , and hath hither thrust me down Into this gloom of Tartarus profound , To sit in hateful office here confined , Inhabitant of Heaven and heavenly born -- Here in perpetual agony and pain , With terrors and with clamours compassed round Of mine own brood , that on my bowels feed ?
Thou art my father , thou my author , thou My being gav ' st me ; whom should I obey But thee ?
whom follow ?
Thou wilt bring me soon To that new world of light and bliss , among The gods who live at ease , where I shall reign At thy right hand voluptuous , as beseems Thy daughter and thy darling , without end ."
Thus saying , from her side the fatal key , Sad instrument of all our woe , she took ; And , towards the gate rolling her bestial train , Forthwith the huge portcullis high up - drew , Which , but herself , not all the Stygian Powers Could once have moved ; then in the key - hole turns Th ' intricate wards , and every bolt and bar Of massy iron or solid rock with ease Unfastens .
On a sudden open fly , With impetuous recoil and jarring sound , Th ' infernal doors , and on their hinges grate Harsh thunder , that the lowest bottom shook Of Erebus .
She opened ; but to shut Excelled her power : the gates wide open stood , That with extended wings a bannered host , Under spread ensigns marching , mibht pass through With horse and chariots ranked in loose array ; So wide they stood , and like a furnace - mouth Cast forth redounding smoke and ruddy flame .
Before their eyes in sudden view appear The secrets of the hoary Deep -- a dark Illimitable ocean , without bound , Without dimension ; where length , breadth , and height , And time , and place , are lost ; where eldest Night And Chaos , ancestors of Nature , hold Eternal anarchy , amidst the noise Of endless wars , and by confusion stand .
For Hot , Cold , Moist , and Dry , four champions fierce , Strive here for mastery , and to battle bring Their embryon atoms : they around the flag Of each his faction , in their several clans , Light - armed or heavy , sharp , smooth , swift , or slow , Swarm populous , unnumbered as the sands Of Barca or Cyrene ' s torrid soil , Levied to side with warring winds , and poise Their lighter wings .
To whom these most adhere He rules a moment : Chaos umpire sits , And by decision more embroils the fray By which he reigns : next him , high arbiter , Chance governs all .
Into this wild Abyss , The womb of Nature , and perhaps her grave , Of neither sea , nor shore , nor air , nor fire , But all these in their pregnant causes mixed Confusedly , and which thus must ever fight , Unless th ' Almighty Maker them ordain His dark materials to create more worlds -- Into this wild Abyss the wary Fiend Stood on the brink of Hell and looked a while , Pondering his voyage ; for no narrow frith He had to cross .
Nor was his ear less pealed With noises loud and ruinous ( to compare Great things with small ) than when Bellona storms With all her battering engines , bent to rase Some capital city ; or less than if this frame Of Heaven were falling , and these elements In mutiny had from her axle torn The steadfast Earth .
At last his sail - broad vans He spread for flight , and , in the surging smoke Uplifted , spurns the ground ; thence many a league , As in a cloudy chair , ascending rides Audacious ; but , that seat soon failing , meets A vast vacuity .
All unawares , Fluttering his pennons vain , plumb - down he drops Ten thousand fathom deep , and to this hour Down had been falling , had not , by ill chance , The strong rebuff of some tumultuous cloud , Instinct with fire and nitre , hurried him As many miles aloft .
That fury stayed -- Quenched in a boggy Syrtis , neither sea , Nor good dry land -- nigh foundered , on he fares , Treading the crude consistence , half on foot , Half flying ; behoves him now both oar and sail .
As when a gryphon through the wilderness With winged course , o ' er hill or moory dale , Pursues the Arimaspian , who by stealth Had from his wakeful custody purloined The guarded gold ; so eagerly the Fiend O ' er bog or steep , through strait , rough , dense , or rare , With head , hands , wings , or feet , pursues his way , And swims , or sinks , or wades , or creeps , or flies .
At length a universal hubbub wild Of stunning sounds , and voices all confused , Borne through the hollow dark , assaults his ear With loudest vehemence .
Thither he plies Undaunted , to meet there whatever Power Or Spirit of the nethermost Abyss Might in that noise reside , of whom to ask Which way the nearest coast of darkness lies Bordering on light ; when straight behold the throne Of Chaos , and his dark pavilion spread Wide on the wasteful Deep !
With him enthroned Sat sable - vested Night , eldest of things , The consort of his reign ; and by them stood Orcus and Ades , and the dreaded name Of Demogorgon ; Rumour next , and Chance , And Tumult , and Confusion , all embroiled , And Discord with a thousand various mouths .
T ' whom Satan , turning boldly , thus :--" Ye Powers And Spirtis of this nethermost Abyss , Chaos and ancient Night , I come no spy With purpose to explore or to disturb The secrets of your realm ; but , by constraint Wandering this darksome desert , as my way Lies through your spacious empire up to light , Alone and without guide , half lost , I seek , What readiest path leads where your gloomy bounds Confine with Heaven ; or , if some other place , From your dominion won , th ' Ethereal King Possesses lately , thither to arrive I travel this profound .
Direct my course : Directed , no mean recompense it brings To your behoof , if I that region lost , All usurpation thence expelled , reduce To her original darkness and your sway ( Which is my present journey ), and once more Erect the standard there of ancient Night .
Yours be th ' advantage all , mine the revenge !"
Thus Satan ; and him thus the Anarch old , With faltering speech and visage incomposed , Answered : " I know thee , stranger , who thou art -- *** That mighty leading Angel , who of late Made head against Heaven ' s King , though overthrown .
I saw and heard ; for such a numerous host Fled not in silence through the frighted Deep , With ruin upon ruin , rout on rout , Confusion worse confounded ; and Heaven - gates Poured out by millions her victorious bands , Pursuing .
I upon my frontiers here Keep residence ; if all I can will serve That little which is left so to defend , Encroached on still through our intestine broils Weakening the sceptre of old Night : first , Hell , Your dungeon , stretching far and wide beneath ; Now lately Heaven and Earth , another world Hung o ' er my realm , linked in a golden chain To that side Heaven from whence your legions fell !
If that way be your walk , you have not far ; So much the nearer danger .
Go , and speed ; Havoc , and spoil , and ruin , are my gain ."
He ceased ; and Satan stayed not to reply , But , glad that now his sea should find a shore , With fresh alacrity and force renewed Springs upward , like a pyramid of fire , Into the wild expanse , and through the shock Of fighting elements , on all sides round Environed , wins his way ; harder beset And more endangered than when Argo passed Through Bosporus betwixt the justling rocks , Or when Ulysses on the larboard shunned Charybdis , and by th ' other whirlpool steered .
So he with difficulty and labour hard Moved on , with difficulty and labour he ; But , he once passed , soon after , when Man fell , Strange alteration !
Sin and Death amain , Following his track ( such was the will of Heaven ) Paved after him a broad and beaten way Over the dark Abyss , whose boiling gulf Tamely endured a bridge of wondrous length , From Hell continued , reaching th ' utmost orb Of this frail World ; by which the Spirits perverse With easy intercourse pass to and fro To tempt or punish mortals , except whom God and good Angels guard by special grace .
But now at last the sacred influence Of light appears , and from the walls of Heaven Shoots far into the bosom of dim Night A glimmering dawn .
Here Nature first begins Her farthest verge , and Chaos to retire , As from her outmost works , a broken foe , With tumult less and with less hostile din ; That Satan with less toil , and now with ease , Wafts on the calmer wave by dubious light , And , like a weather - beaten vessel , holds Gladly the port , though shrouds and tackle torn ; Or in the emptier waste , resembling air , Weighs his spread wings , at leisure to behold Far off th ' empyreal Heaven , extended wide In circuit , undetermined square or round , With opal towers and battlements adorned Of living sapphire , once his native seat ; And , fast by , hanging in a golden chain , This pendent World , in bigness as a star Of smallest magnitude close by the moon .
Thither , full fraught with mischievous revenge , Accursed , and in a cursed hour , he hies .
Book III
Hail , holy Light , offspring of Heaven firstborn , Or of the Eternal coeternal beam May I express thee unblam ' d ?
since God is light , And never but in unapproached light Dwelt from eternity , dwelt then in thee Bright effluence of bright essence increate .
Or hear " st thou rather pure ethereal stream , Whose fountain who shall tell ?
before the sun , Before the Heavens thou wert , and at the voice Of God , as with a mantle , didst invest *** The rising world of waters dark and deep , Won from the void and formless infinite .
Thee I re - visit now with bolder wing , Escap ' d the Stygian pool , though long detain ' d In that obscure sojourn , while in my flight Through utter and through middle darkness borne , With other notes than to the Orphean lyre I sung of Chaos and eternal Night ; Taught by the heavenly Muse to venture down The dark descent , and up to re - ascend , Though hard and rare : Thee I revisit safe , And feel thy sovran vital lamp ; but thou Revisit ' st not these eyes , that roll in vain To find thy piercing ray , and find no dawn ; So thick a drop serene hath quench ' d their orbs , Or dim suffusion veil ' d .
Yet not the more Cease I to wander , where the Muses haunt , Clear spring , or shady grove , or sunny hill , Smit with the love of sacred song ; but chief Thee , Sion , and the flowery brooks beneath , That wash thy hallow ' d feet , and warbling flow , Nightly I visit : nor sometimes forget So were I equall ' d with them in renown , Thy sovran command , that Man should find grace ; Blind Thamyris , and blind Maeonides , And Tiresias , and Phineus , prophets old : Then feed on thoughts , that voluntary move Harmonious numbers ; as the wakeful bird Sings darkling , and in shadiest covert hid Tunes her nocturnal note .
Thus with the year Seasons return ; but not to me returns Day , or the sweet approach of even or morn , Or sight of vernal bloom , or summer ' s rose , Or flocks , or herds , or human face divine ; But cloud instead , and ever - during dark Surrounds me , from the cheerful ways of men Cut off , and for the book of knowledge fair Presented with a universal blank Of nature ' s works to me expung ' d and ras ' d , And wisdom at one entrance quite shut out .
So much the rather thou , celestial Light , Shine inward , and the mind through all her powers Irradiate ; there plant eyes , all mist from thence Purge and disperse , that I may see and tell Of things invisible to mortal sight .
Now had the Almighty Father from above , From the pure empyrean where he sits High thron ' d above all highth , bent down his eye His own works and their works at once to view : About him all the Sanctities of Heaven Stood thick as stars , and from his sight receiv ' d Beatitude past utterance ; on his right The radiant image of his glory sat , His only son ; on earth he first beheld Our two first parents , yet the only two Of mankind in the happy garden plac ' d Reaping immortal fruits of joy and love , Uninterrupted joy , unrivall ' d love , In blissful solitude ; he then survey ' d Hell and the gulf between , and Satan there Coasting the wall of Heaven on this side Night In the dun air sublime , and ready now To stoop with wearied wings , and willing feet , On the bare outside of this world , that seem ' d Firm land imbosom ' d , without firmament , Uncertain which , in ocean or in air .
Him God beholding from his prospect high , Wherein past , present , future , he beholds , Thus to his only Son foreseeing spake .
Only begotten Son , seest thou what rage Transports our Adversary ?
whom no bounds Prescrib ' d no bars of Hell , nor all the chains Heap ' d on him there , nor yet the main abyss Wide interrupt , can hold ; so bent he seems On desperate revenge , that shall redound Upon his own rebellious head .
And now , Through all restraint broke loose , he wings his way Not far off Heaven , in the precincts of light , Directly towards the new created world , And man there plac ' d , with purpose to assay If him by force he can destroy , or , worse , By some false guile pervert ; and shall pervert ; For man will hearken to his glozing lies , And easily transgress the sole command , Sole pledge of his obedience : So will fall He and his faithless progeny : Whose fault ?
Whose but his own ?
ingrate , he had of me All he could have ; I made him just and right , Sufficient to have stood , though free to fall .
Such I created all the ethereal Powers And Spirits , both them who stood , and them who fail ' d ; Freely they stood who stood , and fell who fell .
Not free , what proof could they have given sincere Of true allegiance , constant faith or love , Where only what they needs must do appear ' d , Not what they would ?
what praise could they receive ?
What pleasure I from such obedience paid , When will and reason ( reason also is choice ) Useless and vain , of freedom both despoil ' d , Made passive both , had serv ' d necessity , Not me ?
they therefore , as to right belong $ ' d , So were created , nor can justly accuse Their Maker , or their making , or their fate , As if predestination over - rul ' d Their will dispos ' d by absolute decree Or high foreknowledge they themselves decreed Their own revolt , not I ; if I foreknew , Foreknowledge had no influence on their fault , Which had no less proved certain unforeknown .
So without least impulse or shadow of fate , Or aught by me immutably foreseen , They trespass , authors to themselves in all Both what they judge , and what they choose ; for so I form ' d them free : and free they must remain , Till they enthrall themselves ; I else must change Their nature , and revoke the high decree Unchangeable , eternal , which ordain ' d $ THeir freedom : they themselves ordain ' d their fall .
The first sort by their own suggestion fell , Self - tempted , self - deprav ' d : Man falls , deceiv ' d By the other first : Man therefore shall find grace , The other none : In mercy and justice both , Through Heaven and Earth , so shall my glory excel ; But Mercy , first and last , shall brightest shine .
Thus while God spake , ambrosial fragrance fill ' d All Heaven , and in the blessed Spirits elect Sense of new joy ineffable diffus ' d .
Beyond compare the Son of God was seen Most glorious ; in him all his Father shone Substantially express ' d ; and in his face Divine compassion visibly appear ' d , Love without end , and without measure grace , Which uttering , thus he to his Father spake .
O Father , gracious was that word which clos ' d Thy sovran command , that Man should find grace ; , that Man should find grace ; For which both Heaven and earth shall high extol Thy praises , with the innumerable sound Of hymns and sacred songs , wherewith thy throne Encompass ' d shall resound thee ever blest .
For should Man finally be lost , should Man , Thy creature late so lov ' d , thy youngest son , Fall circumvented thus by fraud , though join ' d With his own folly ?
that be from thee far , That far be from thee , Father , who art judge Of all things made , and judgest only right .
Or shall the Adversary thus obtain His end , and frustrate thine ?
shall he fulfill His malice , and thy goodness bring to nought , Or proud return , though to his heavier doom , Yet with revenge accomplish ' d , and to Hell Draw after him the whole race of mankind , By him corrupted ?
or wilt thou thyself Abolish thy creation , and unmake For him , what for thy glory thou hast made ?
So should thy goodness and thy greatness both Be question ' d and blasphem ' d without defence .
To whom the great Creator thus replied .
O son , in whom my soul hath chief delight , Son of my bosom , Son who art alone .
My word , my wisdom , and effectual might , All hast thou spoken as my thoughts are , all As my eternal purpose hath decreed ; Man shall not quite be lost , but sav ' d who will ; Yet not of will in him , but grace in me Freely vouchsaf ' d ; once more I will renew His lapsed powers , though forfeit ; and enthrall ' d By sin to foul exorbitant desires ; Upheld by me , yet once more he shall stand On even ground against his mortal foe ; By me upheld , that he may know how frail His fallen condition is , and to me owe All his deliverance , and to none but me .
Some I have chosen of peculiar grace , Elect above the rest ; so is my will : The rest shall hear me call , and oft be warn ' d Their sinful state , and to appease betimes The incensed Deity , while offer ' d grace Invites ; for I will clear their senses dark , What may suffice , and soften stony hearts To pray , repent , and bring obedience due .
To prayer , repentance , and obedience due , Though but endeavour ' d with sincere intent , Mine ear shall not be slow , mine eye not shut .
And I will place within them as a guide , My umpire Conscience ; whom if they will hear , Light after light , well us ' d , they shall attain , And to the end , persisting , safe arrive .
This my long sufferance , and my day of grace , They who neglect and scorn , shall never taste ; But hard be harden ' d , blind be blinded more , That they may stumble on , and deeper fall ; And none but such from mercy I exclude .
But yet all is not done ; Man disobeying , Disloyal , breaks his fealty , and sins Against the high supremacy of Heaven , Affecting God - head , and , so losing all , To expiate his treason hath nought left , But to destruction sacred and devote , He , with his whole posterity , must die , Die he or justice must ; unless for him Some other able , and as willing , pay The rigid satisfaction , death for death .
Say , heavenly Powers , where shall we find such love ?
Which of you will be mortal , to redeem Man ' s mortal crime , and just the unjust to save ?
Dwells in all Heaven charity so dear ?
And silence was in Heaven : $ on Man ' s behalf He ask ' d , but all the heavenly quire stood mute , Patron or intercessour none appear ' d , Much less that durst upon his own head draw The deadly forfeiture , and ransom set .
And now without redemption all mankind Must have been lost , adjudg ' d to Death and Hell By doom severe , had not the Son of God , In whom the fulness dwells of love divine , His dearest mediation thus renew ' d .
Father , thy word is past , Man shall find grace ; And shall grace not find means , that finds her way , The speediest of thy winged messengers , To visit all thy creatures , and to all Comes unprevented , unimplor ' d , unsought ?
Happy for Man , so coming ; he her aid Can never seek , once dead in sins , and lost ; Atonement for himself , or offering meet , Indebted and undone , hath none to bring ; Behold me then : me for him , life for life I offer : on me let thine anger fall ; Account me Man ; I for his sake will leave Thy bosom , and this glory next to thee Freely put off , and for him lastly die Well pleased ; on me let Death wreak all his rage .
Under his gloomy power I shall not long Lie vanquished .
Thou hast given me to possess Life in myself for ever ; by thee I live ; Though now to Death I yield , and am his due , All that of me can die , yet , that debt paid , $ thou wilt not leave me in the loathsome grave His prey , nor suffer my unspotted soul For ever with corruption there to dwell ; But I shall rise victorious , and subdue My vanquisher , spoiled of his vaunted spoil .
Death his death ' s wound shall then receive , and stoop Inglorious , of his mortal sting disarmed ; I through the ample air in triumph high Shall lead Hell captive maugre Hell , and show The powers of darkness bound .
Thou , at the sight Pleased , out of Heaven shalt look down and smile , While , by thee raised , I ruin all my foes ; Death last , and with his carcase glut the grave ; Then , with the multitude of my redeemed , Shall enter Heaven , long absent , and return , Father , to see thy face , wherein no cloud Of anger shall remain , but peace assured And reconcilement : wrath shall be no more Thenceforth , but in thy presence joy entire .
His words here ended ; but his meek aspect Silent yet spake , and breathed immortal love To mortal men , above which only shone Filial obedience : as a sacrifice Glad to be offered , he attends the will Of his great Father .
Admiration seized All Heaven , what this might mean , and whither tend , Wondering ; but soon th ' Almighty thus replied .
O thou in Heaven and Earth the only peace Found out for mankind under wrath , O thou My sole complacence !
Well thou know ' st how dear To me are all my works ; nor Man the least , Though last created , that for him I spare Thee from my bosom and right hand , to save , By losing thee a while , the whole race lost .
00021053 Thou , therefore , whom thou only canst redeem , Their nature also to thy nature join ; And be thyself Man among men on Earth , Made flesh , when time shall be , of virgin seed , By wondrous birth ; be thou in Adam ' s room The head of all mankind , though Adam ' s son .
As in him perish all men , so in thee , As from a second root , shall be restored As many as are restored , without thee none .
His crime makes guilty all his sons ; thy merit , Imputed , shall absolve them who renounce Their own both righteous and unrighteous deeds , And live in thee transplanted , and from thee Receive new life .
So Man , as is most just , Shall satisfy for Man , be judged and die , And dying rise , and rising with him raise His brethren , ransomed with his own dear life .
So heavenly love shall outdo hellish hate , Giving to death , and dying to redeem , So dearly to redeem what hellish hate So easily destroyed , and still destroys In those who , when they may , accept not grace .
Nor shalt thou , by descending to assume Man ' s nature , lessen or degrade thine own .
Because thou hast , though throned in highest bliss Equal to God , and equally enjoying God - like fruition , quitted all , to save A world from utter loss , and hast been found By merit more than birthright Son of God , Found worthiest to be so by being good , Far more than great or high ; because in thee Love hath abounded more than glory abounds ; Therefore thy humiliation shall exalt With thee thy manhood also to this throne : Here shalt thou sit incarnate , here shalt reign Both God and Man , Son both of God and Man , Anointed universal King ; all power I give thee ; reign for ever , and assume Thy merits ; under thee , as head supreme , Thrones , Princedoms , Powers , Dominions , I reduce : All knees to thee shall bow , of them that bide In Heaven , or Earth , or under Earth in Hell .
When thou , attended gloriously from Heaven , Shalt in the sky appear , and from thee send The summoning Arch - Angels to proclaim Thy dread tribunal ; forthwith from all winds , The living , and forthwith the cited dead Of all past ages , to the general doom Shall hasten ; such a peal shall rouse their sleep .
Then , all thy saints assembled , thou shalt judge Bad Men and Angels ; they , arraigned , shall sink Beneath thy sentence ; Hell , her numbers full , Thenceforth shall be for ever shut .
Mean while The world shall burn , and from her ashes spring New Heaven and Earth , wherein the just shall dwell , And , after all their tribulations long , See golden days , fruitful of golden deeds , With joy and peace triumphing , and fair truth .
Then thou thy regal scepter shalt lay by , For regal scepter then no more shall need , God shall be all in all .
But , all ye Gods , Adore him , who to compass all this dies ; Adore the Son , and honour him as me .
No sooner had the Almighty ceased , but all The multitude of Angels , with a shout Loud as from numbers without number , sweet As from blest voices , uttering joy , Heaven rung With jubilee , and loud Hosannas filled The eternal regions : Lowly reverent Towards either throne they bow , and to the ground With solemn adoration down they cast Their crowns inwove with amarant and gold ; Immortal amarant , a flower which once In Paradise , fast by the tree of life , Began to bloom ; but soon for man ' s offence To Heaven removed , where first it grew , there grows , And flowers aloft shading the fount of life , And where the river of bliss through midst of Heaven Rolls o ' er Elysian flowers her amber stream ; With these that never fade the Spirits elect Bind their resplendent locks inwreathed with beams ; Now in loose garlands thick thrown off , the bright Pavement , that like a sea of jasper shone , Impurpled with celestial roses smiled .
Then , crowned again , their golden harps they took , Harps ever tuned , that glittering by their side Like quivers hung , and with preamble sweet Of charming symphony they introduce Their sacred song , and waken raptures high ; No voice exempt , no voice but well could join Melodious part , such concord is in Heaven .
Thee , Father , first they sung Omnipotent , Immutable , Immortal , Infinite , Eternal King ; the Author of all being , Fonntain of light , thyself invisible Amidst the glorious brightness where thou sit ' st Throned inaccessible , but when thou shadest The full blaze of thy beams , and , through a cloud Drawn round about thee like a radiant shrine , Dark with excessive bright thy skirts appear , Yet dazzle Heaven , that brightest Seraphim Approach not , but with both wings veil their eyes .
Thee next they sang of all creation first , Begotten Son , Divine Similitude , In whose conspicuous countenance , without cloud Made visible , the Almighty Father shines , Whom else no creature can behold ; on thee Impressed the effulgence of his glory abides , Transfused on thee his ample Spirit rests .
He Heaven of Heavens and all the Powers therein By thee created ; and by thee threw down The aspiring Dominations : Thou that day Thy Father ' s dreadful thunder didst not spare , Nor stop thy flaming chariot - wheels , that shook Heaven ' s everlasting frame , while o ' er the necks Thou drovest of warring Angels disarrayed .
Back from pursuit thy Powers with loud acclaim Thee only extolled , Son of thy Father ' s might , To execute fierce vengeance on his foes , Not so on Man : Him through their malice fallen , Father of mercy and grace , thou didst not doom So strictly , but much more to pity incline : No sooner did thy dear and only Son Perceive thee purposed not to doom frail Man So strictly , but much more to pity inclined , He to appease thy wrath , and end the strife Of mercy and justice in thy face discerned , Regardless of the bliss wherein he sat Second to thee , offered himself to die For Man ' s offence .
O unexampled love , Love no where to be found less than Divine !
Hail , Son of God , Saviour of Men !
Thy name Shall be the copious matter of my song Henceforth , and never shall my heart thy praise Forget , nor from thy Father ' s praise disjoin .
Thus they in Heaven , above the starry sphere , Their happy hours in joy and hymning spent .
Mean while upon the firm opacous globe Of this round world , whose first convex divides The luminous inferiour orbs , enclosed From Chaos , and the inroad of Darkness old , Satan alighted walks : A globe far off It seemed , now seems a boundless continent Dark , waste , and wild , under the frown of Night Starless exposed , and ever - threatening storms Of Chaos blustering round , inclement sky ; Save on that side which from the wall of Heaven , Though distant far , some small reflection gains Of glimmering air less vexed with tempest loud : Here walked the Fiend at large in spacious field .
As when a vultur on Imaus bred , Whose snowy ridge the roving Tartar bounds , Dislodging from a region scarce of prey To gorge the flesh of lambs or yeanling kids , On hills where flocks are fed , flies toward the springs Of Ganges or Hydaspes , Indian streams ; But in his way lights on the barren plains Of Sericana , where Chineses drive With sails and wind their cany waggons light : So , on this windy sea of land , the Fiend Walked up and down alone , bent on his prey ; Alone , for other creature in this place , Living or lifeless , to be found was none ; None yet , but store hereafter from the earth Up hither like aereal vapours flew Of all things transitory and vain , when sin With vanity had filled the works of men : Both all things vain , and all who in vain things Built their fond hopes of glory or lasting fame , Or happiness in this or the other life ; All who have their reward on earth , the fruits Of painful superstition and blind zeal , Nought seeking but the praise of men , here find Fit retribution , empty as their deeds ; All the unaccomplished works of Nature ' s hand , Abortive , monstrous , or unkindly mixed , Dissolved on earth , fleet hither , and in vain , Till final dissolution , wander here ; Not in the neighbouring moon as some have dreamed ; Those argent fields more likely habitants , Translated Saints , or middle Spirits hold Betwixt the angelical and human kind .
Hither of ill - joined sons and daughters born First from the ancient world those giants came With many a vain exploit , though then renowned : The builders next of Babel on the plain Of Sennaar , and still with vain design , New Babels , had they wherewithal , would build : Others came single ; he , who , to be deemed A God , leaped fondly into Aetna flames , Empedocles ; and he , who , to enjoy Plato ' s Elysium , leaped into the sea , Cleombrotus ; and many more too long , Embryos , and idiots , eremites , and friars White , black , and gray , with all their trumpery .
Here pilgrims roam , that strayed so far to seek In Golgotha him dead , who lives in Heaven ; And they , who to be sure of Paradise , Dying , put on the weeds of Dominick , Or in Franciscan think to pass disguised ; They pass the planets seven , and pass the fixed , And that crystalling sphere whose balance weighs The trepidation talked , and that first moved ; And now Saint Peter at Heaven ' s wicket seems To wait them with his keys , and now at foot Of Heaven ' s ascent they lift their feet , when lo A violent cross wind from either coast Blows them transverse , ten thousand leagues awry Into the devious air : Then might ye see Cowls , hoods , and habits , with their wearers , tost And fluttered into rags ; then reliques , beads , Indulgences , dispenses , pardons , bulls , The sport of winds : All these , upwhirled aloft , Fly o ' er the backside of the world far off Into a Limbo large and broad , since called The Paradise of Fools , to few unknown Long after ; now unpeopled , and untrod .
All this dark globe the Fiend found as he passed , And long he wandered , till at last a gleam Of dawning light turned thither - ward in haste His travelled steps : far distant he descries Ascending by degrees magnificent Up to the wall of Heaven a structure high ; At top whereof , but far more rich , appeared The work as of a kingly palace - gate , With frontispiece of diamond and gold Embellished ; thick with sparkling orient gems The portal shone , inimitable on earth By model , or by shading pencil , drawn .
These stairs were such as whereon Jacob saw Angels ascending and descending , bands Of guardians bright , when he from Esau fled To Padan - Aram , in the field of Luz Dreaming by night under the open sky And waking cried , This is the gate of Heaven .
Each stair mysteriously was meant , nor stood There always , but drawn up to Heaven sometimes Viewless ; and underneath a bright sea flowed Of jasper , or of liquid pearl , whereon Who after came from earth , failing arrived Wafted by Angels , or flew o ' er the lake Rapt in a chariot drawn by fiery steeds .
The stairs were then let down , whether to dare The Fiend by easy ascent , or aggravate His sad exclusion from the doors of bliss : Direct against which opened from beneath , Just o ' er the blissful seat of Paradise , A passage down to the Earth , a passage wide , Wider by far than that of after - times Over mount Sion , and , though that were large , Over the Promised Land to God so dear ; By which , to visit oft those happy tribes , On high behests his angels to and fro Passed frequent , and his eye with choice regard From Paneas , the fount of Jordan ' s flood , To Beersaba , where the Holy Land Borders on Egypt and the Arabian shore ; So wide the opening seemed , where bounds were set To darkness , such as bound the ocean wave .
Satan from hence , now on the lower stair , That scaled by steps of gold to Heaven - gate , Looks down with wonder at the sudden view Of all this world at once .
As when a scout , Through dark ?
; nd desart ways with ? oeril gone All ? might ,?
; t ? kast by break of cheerful dawn Obtains the brow of some high - climbing hill , Which to his eye discovers unaware The goodly prospect of some foreign land First seen , or some renowned metropolis With glistering spires and pinnacles adorned , Which now the rising sun gilds with his beams : Such wonder seised , though after Heaven seen , The Spirit malign , but much more envy seised , At sight of all this world beheld so fair .
Round he surveys ( and well might , where he stood So high above the circling canopy Of night ' s extended shade ,) from eastern point Of Libra to the fleecy star that bears Andromeda far off Atlantick seas Beyond the horizon ; then from pole to pole He views in breadth , and without longer pause Down right into the world ' s first region throws His flight precipitant , and winds with ease Through the pure marble air his oblique way Amongst innumerable stars , that shone Stars distant , but nigh hand seemed other worlds ; Or other worlds they seemed , or happy isles , Like those Hesperian gardens famed of old , Fortunate fields , and groves , and flowery vales , Thrice happy isles ; but who dwelt happy there He staid not to inquire : Above them all The golden sun , in splendour likest Heaven , Allured his eye ; thither his course he bends Through the calm firmament , ( but up or down , By center , or eccentrick , hard to tell , Or longitude ,) where the great luminary Aloof the vulgar constellations thick , That from his lordly eye keep distance due , Dispenses light from far ; they , as they move Their starry dance in numbers that compute Days , months , and years , towards his all - cheering lamp Turn swift their various motions , or are turned By his magnetick beam , that gently warms The universe , and to each inward part With gentle penetration , though unseen , Shoots invisible virtue even to the deep ; So wonderously was set his station bright .
There lands the Fiend , a spot like which perhaps Astronomer in the sun ' s lucent orb Through his glazed optick tube yet never saw .
The place he found beyond expression bright , Compared with aught on earth , metal or stone ; Not all parts like , but all alike informed With radiant light , as glowing iron with fire ; If metal , part seemed gold , part silver clear ; If stone , carbuncle most or chrysolite , Ruby or topaz , to the twelve that shone In Aaron ' s breast - plate , and a stone besides Imagined rather oft than elsewhere seen , That stone , or like to that which here below Philosophers in vain so long have sought , In vain , though by their powerful art they bind Volatile Hermes , and call up unbound In various shapes old Proteus from the sea , Drained through a limbeck to his native form .
What wonder then if fields and regions here Breathe forth Elixir pure , and rivers run Potable gold , when with one virtuous touch The arch - chemick sun , so far from us remote , Produces , with terrestrial humour mixed , Here in the dark so many precious things Of colour glorious , and effect so rare ?
Here matter new to gaze the Devil met Undazzled ; far and wide his eye commands ; For sight no obstacle found here , nor shade , But all sun - shine , as when his beams at noon Culminate from the equator , as they now Shot upward still direct , whence no way round Shadow from body opaque can fall ; and the air , No where so clear , sharpened his visual ray To objects distant far , whereby he soon Saw within ken a glorious Angel stand , The same whom John saw also in the sun : His back was turned , but not his brightness hid ; Of beaming sunny rays a golden tiar Circled his head , nor less his locks behind Illustrious on his shoulders fledge with wings Lay waving round ; on some great charge employed He seemed , or fixed in cogitation deep .
Glad was the Spirit impure , as now in hope To find who might direct his wandering flight To Paradise , the happy seat of Man , His journey ' s end and our beginning woe .
But first he casts to change his proper shape , Which else might work him danger or delay : And now a stripling Cherub he appears , Not of the prime , yet such as in his face Youth smiled celestial , and to every limb Suitable grace diffused , so well he feigned : Under a coronet his flowing hair In curls on either cheek played ; wings he wore Of many a coloured plume , sprinkled with gold ; His habit fit for speed succinct , and held Before his decent steps a silver wand .
He drew not nigh unheard ; the Angel bright , Ere he drew nigh , his radiant visage turned , Admonished by his ear , and straight was known The Arch - Angel Uriel , one of the seven Who in God ' s presence , nearest to his throne , Stand ready at command , and are his eyes That run through all the Heavens , or down to the Earth Bear his swift errands over moist and dry , O ' er sea and land : him Satan thus accosts .
Uriel , for thou of those seven Spirits that stand In sight of God ' s high throne , gloriously bright , The first art wont his great authentick will Interpreter through highest Heaven to bring , Where all his sons thy embassy attend ; And here art likeliest by supreme decree Like honour to obtain , and as his eye To visit oft this new creation round ; Unspeakable desire to see , and know All these his wonderous works , but chiefly Man , His chief delight and favour , him for whom All these his works so wonderous he ordained , Hath brought me from the quires of Cherubim Alone thus wandering .
Brightest Seraph , tell In which of all these shining orbs hath Man His fixed seat , or fixed seat hath none , But all these shining orbs his choice to dwell ; That I may find him , and with secret gaze Or open admiration him behold , On whom the great Creator hath bestowed Worlds , and on whom hath all these graces poured ; That both in him and all things , as is meet , The universal Maker we may praise ; Who justly hath driven out his rebel foes To deepest Hell , and , to repair that loss , Created this new happy race of Men To serve him better : Wise are all his ways .
So spake the false dissembler unperceived ; For neither Man nor Angel can discern Hypocrisy , the only evil that walks Invisible , except to God alone , By his permissive will , through Heaven and Earth : And oft , though wisdom wake , suspicion sleeps At wisdom ' s gate , and to simplicity Resigns her charge , while goodness thinks no ill Where no ill seems : Which now for once beguiled Uriel , though regent of the sun , and held The sharpest - sighted Spirit of all in Heaven ; Who to the fraudulent impostor foul , In his uprightness , answer thus returned .
Fair Angel , thy desire , which tends to know The works of God , thereby to glorify The great Work - master , leads to no excess That reaches blame , but rather merits praise The more it seems excess , that led thee hither From thy empyreal mansion thus alone , To witness with thine eyes what some perhaps , Contented with report , hear only in Heaven : For wonderful indeed are all his works , Pleasant to know , and worthiest to be all Had in remembrance always with delight ; But what created mind can comprehend Their number , or the wisdom infinite That brought them forth , but hid their causes deep ?
I saw when at his word the formless mass , This world ' s material mould , came to a heap : Confusion heard his voice , and wild uproar Stood ruled , stood vast infinitude confined ; Till at his second bidding Darkness fled , Light shone , and order from disorder sprung : Swift to their several quarters hasted then The cumbrous elements , earth , flood , air , fire ; And this ethereal quintessence of Heaven Flew upward , spirited with various forms , That rolled orbicular , and turned to stars Numberless , as thou seest , and how they move ; Each had his place appointed , each his course ; The rest in circuit walls this universe .
Look downward on that globe , whose hither side With light from hence , though but reflected , shines ; That place is Earth , the seat of Man ; that light His day , which else , as the other hemisphere , Night would invade ; but there the neighbouring moon So call that opposite fair star ) her aid Timely interposes , and her monthly round Still ending , still renewing , through mid Heaven , With borrowed light her countenance triform Hence fills and empties to enlighten the Earth , And in her pale dominion checks the night .
That spot , to which I point , is Paradise , Adam ' s abode ; those lofty shades , his bower .
Thy way thou canst not miss , me mine requires .
Thus said , he turned ; and Satan , bowing low , As to superiour Spirits is wont in Heaven , Where honour due and reverence none neglects , Took leave , and toward the coast of earth beneath , Down from the ecliptick , sped with hoped success , Throws his steep flight in many an aery wheel ; Nor staid , till on Niphates ' top he lights .
Book IV
O , for that warning voice , which he , who saw The Apocalypse , heard cry in Heaven aloud , Then when the Dragon , put to second rout , Came furious down to be revenged on men , Woe to the inhabitants on earth !
that now , While time was , our first parents had been warned The coming of their secret foe , and ' scaped , Haply so ' scaped his mortal snare : For now Satan , now first inflamed with rage , came down , The tempter ere the accuser of mankind , To wreak on innocent frail Man his loss Of that first battle , and his flight to Hell : Yet , not rejoicing in his speed , though bold Far off and fearless , nor with cause to boast , Begins his dire attempt ; which nigh the birth Now rolling boils in his tumultuous breast , And like a devilish engine back recoils Upon himself ; horrour and doubt distract His troubled thoughts , and from the bottom stir The Hell within him ; for within him Hell He brings , and round about him , nor from Hell One step , no more than from himself , can fly By change of place : Now conscience wakes despair , That slumbered ; wakes the bitter memory Of what he was , what is , and what must be Worse ; of worse deeds worse sufferings must ensue .
Sometimes towards Eden , which now in his view Lay pleasant , his grieved look he fixes sad ; Sometimes towards Heaven , and the full - blazing sun , Which now sat high in his meridian tower : Then , much revolving , thus in sighs began .
O thou , that , with surpassing glory crowned , Lookest from thy sole dominion like the God Of this new world ; at whose sight all the stars Hide their diminished heads ; to thee I call , But with no friendly voice , and add thy name , Of Sun !
to tell thee how I hate thy beams , That bring to my remembrance from what state I fell , how glorious once above thy sphere ; Till pride and worse ambition threw me down Warring in Heaven against Heaven ' s matchless King : Ah , wherefore !
he deserved no such return From me , whom he created what I was In that bright eminence , and with his good Upbraided none ; nor was his service hard .
What could be less than to afford him praise , The easiest recompence , and pay him thanks , How due !
yet all his good proved ill in me , And wrought but malice ; lifted up so high I sdeined subjection , and thought one step higher Would set me highest , and in a moment quit The debt immense of endless gratitude , So burdensome still paying , still to owe , Forgetful what from him I still received , And understood not that a grateful mind By owing owes not , but still pays , at once Indebted and discharged ; what burden then O , had his powerful destiny ordained Me some inferiour Angel , I had stood Then happy ; no unbounded hope had raised Ambition !
Yet why not some other Power As great might have aspired , and me , though mean , Drawn to his part ; but other Powers as great Fell not , but stand unshaken , from within Or from without , to all temptations armed .
Hadst thou the same free will and power to stand ?
Thou hadst : whom hast thou then or what to accuse , But Heaven ' s free love dealt equally to all ?
Be then his love accursed , since love or hate , To me alike , it deals eternal woe .
Nay , cursed be thou ; since against his thy will Chose freely what it now so justly rues .
Me miserable !
which way shall I fly Infinite wrath , and infinite despair ?
Which way I fly is Hell ; myself am Hell ; And , in the lowest deep , a lower deep Still threatening to devour me opens wide , To which the Hell I suffer seems a Heaven .
O , then , at last relent : Is there no place Left for repentance , none for pardon left ?
None left but by submission ; and that word Disdain forbids me , and my dread of shame Among the Spirits beneath , whom I seduced With other promises and other vaunts Than to submit , boasting I could subdue The Omnipotent .
Ay me !
they little know How dearly I abide that boast so vain , Under what torments inwardly I groan , While they adore me on the throne of Hell .
With diadem and scepter high advanced , The lower still I fall , only supreme In misery : Such joy ambition finds .
But say I could repent , and could obtain , By act of grace , my former state ; how soon Would highth recall high thoughts , how soon unsay What feigned submission swore ?
Ease would recant Vows made in pain , as violent and void .
For never can true reconcilement grow , Where wounds of deadly hate have pierced so deep : Which would but lead me to a worse relapse And heavier fall : so should I purchase dear Short intermission bought with double smart .
This knows my Punisher ; therefore as far From granting he , as I from begging , peace ; All hope excluded thus , behold , in stead Mankind created , and for him this world .
So farewell , hope ; and with hope farewell , fear ; Farewell , remorse !
all good to me is lost ; Evil , be thou my good ; by thee at least Divided empire with Heaven ' s King I hold , By thee , and more than half perhaps will reign ; As Man ere long , and this new world , shall know .
Thus while he spake , each passion dimmed his face Thrice changed with pale , ire , envy , and despair ; Which marred his borrowed visage , and betrayed Him counterfeit , if any eye beheld .
For heavenly minds from such distempers foul Are ever clear .
Whereof he soon aware , Each perturbation smoothed with outward calm , Artificer of fraud ; and was the first That practised falsehood under saintly show , Deep malice to conceal , couched with revenge : Yet not enough had practised to deceive Uriel once warned ; whose eye pursued him down The way he went , and on the Assyrian mount Saw him disfigured , more than could befall Spirit of happy sort ; his gestures fierce He marked and mad demeanour , then alone , As he supposed , all unobserved , unseen .
So on he fares , and to the border comes Of Eden , where delicious Paradise , Now nearer , crowns with her enclosure green , As with a rural mound , the champaign head Of a steep wilderness , whose hairy sides Access denied ; and overhead upgrew Insuperable height of loftiest shade , Cedar , and pine , and fir , and branching palm , A sylvan scene , and , as the ranks ascend , Shade above shade , a woody theatre Of stateliest view .
Yet higher than their tops The verdurous wall of Paradise upsprung ;
00081429 Which to our general sire gave prospect large Into his nether empire neighbouring round .
And higher than that wall a circling row Of goodliest trees , loaden with fairest fruit , Blossoms and fruits at once of golden hue , Appeared , with gay enamelled colours mixed : On which the sun more glad impressed his beams Than in fair evening cloud , or humid bow , When God hath showered the earth ; so lovely seemed That landskip : And of pure now purer air Meets his approach , and to the heart inspires Vernal delight and joy , able to drive All sadness but despair : Now gentle gales , Fanning their odoriferous wings , dispense Native perfumes , and whisper whence they stole Those balmy spoils .
As when to them who fail Beyond the Cape of Hope , and now are past Mozambick , off at sea north - east winds blow Sabean odours from the spicy shore Of Araby the blest ; with such delay Well pleased they slack their course , and many a league Cheered with the grateful smell old Ocean smiles : So entertained those odorous sweets the Fiend , Who came their bane ; though with them better pleased Than Asmodeus with the fishy fume That drove him , though enamoured , from the spouse Of Tobit ' s son , and with a vengeance sent From Media post to Egypt , there fast bound .
Now to the ascent of that steep savage hill Satan had journeyed on , pensive and slow ; But further way found none , so thick entwined , As one continued brake , the undergrowth Of shrubs and tangling bushes had perplexed All path of man or beast that passed that way .
One gate there only was , and that looked east On the other side : which when the arch - felon saw , Due entrance he disdained ; and , in contempt , At one flight bound high over - leaped all bound Of hill or highest wall , and sheer within Lights on his feet .
As when a prowling wolf , Whom hunger drives to seek new haunt for prey , Watching where shepherds pen their flocks at eve In hurdled cotes amid the field secure , Leaps o ' er the fence with ease into the fold : Or as a thief , bent to unhoard the cash Of some rich burgher , whose substantial doors , Cross - barred and bolted fast , fear no assault , In at the window climbs , or o ' er the tiles : So clomb this first grand thief into God ' s fold ; So since into his church lewd hirelings climb .
Thence up he flew , and on the tree of life , The middle tree and highest there that grew , Sat like a cormorant ; yet not true life Thereby regained , but sat devising death To them who lived ; nor on the virtue thought Of that life - giving plant , but only used For prospect , what well used had been the pledge Of immortality .
So little knows Any , but God alone , to value right The good before him , but perverts best things To worst abuse , or to their meanest use .
Beneath him with new wonder now he views , To all delight of human sense exposed , In narrow room , Nature ' s whole wealth , yea more , A Heaven on Earth : For blissful Paradise Of God the garden was , by him in the east Of Eden planted ; Eden stretched her line From Auran eastward to the royal towers Of great Seleucia , built by Grecian kings , Of where the sons of Eden long before Dwelt in Telassar : In this pleasant soil His far more pleasant garden God ordained ; Out of the fertile ground he caused to grow All trees of noblest kind for sight , smell , taste ; And all amid them stood the tree of life , High eminent , blooming ambrosial fruit Of vegetable gold ; and next to life , Our death , the tree of knowledge , grew fast by , Knowledge of good bought dear by knowing ill . Southward through Eden went a river large , Nor changed his course , but through the shaggy hill Passed underneath ingulfed ; for God had thrown That mountain as his garden - mould high raised Upon the rapid current , which , through veins Of porous earth with kindly thirst up - drawn , Rose a fresh fountain , and with many a rill Watered the garden ; thence united fell Down the steep glade , and met the nether flood , Which from his darksome passage now appears , And now , divided into four main streams , Runs diverse , wandering many a famous realm And country , whereof here needs no account ; But rather to tell how , if Art could tell , How from that sapphire fount the crisped brooks , Rolling on orient pearl and sands of gold , With mazy errour under pendant shades Ran nectar , visiting each plant , and fed Flowers worthy of Paradise , which not nice Art In beds and curious knots , but Nature boon Poured forth profuse on hill , and dale , and plain , Both where the morning sun first warmly smote The open field , and where the unpierced shade Imbrowned the noontide bowers : Thus was this place A happy rural seat of various view ; Groves whose rich trees wept odorous gums and balm , Others whose fruit , burnished with golden rind , Hung amiable , Hesperian fables true , If true , here only , and of delicious taste : Betwixt them lawns , or level downs , and flocks Grazing the tender herb , were interposed , Or palmy hillock ; or the flowery lap Of some irriguous valley spread her store , Flowers of all hue , and without thorn the rose : Another side , umbrageous grots and caves Of cool recess , o ' er which the mantling vine Lays forth her purple grape , and gently creeps Luxuriant ; mean while murmuring waters fall Down the slope hills , dispersed , or in a lake , That to the fringed bank with myrtle crowned Her crystal mirrour holds , unite their streams .
The birds their quire apply ; airs , vernal airs , Breathing the smell of field and grove , attune The trembling leaves , while universal Pan , Knit with the Graces and the Hours in dance , Led on the eternal Spring .
Not that fair field Of Enna , where Proserpine gathering flowers , Herself a fairer flower by gloomy Dis Was gathered , which cost Ceres all that pain To seek her through the world ; nor that sweet grove Of Daphne by Orontes , and the inspired Castalian spring , might with this Paradise Of Eden strive ; nor that Nyseian isle Girt with the river Triton , where old Cham , Whom Gentiles Ammon call and Libyan Jove , Hid Amalthea , and her florid son Young Bacchus , from his stepdame Rhea ' s eye ; Nor where Abassin kings their issue guard , Mount Amara , though this by some supposed True Paradise under the Ethiop line By Nilus ' head , enclosed with shining rock , A whole day ' s journey high , but wide remote From this Assyrian garden , where the Fiend Saw , undelighted , all delight , all kind Of living creatures , new to sight , and strange Two of far nobler shape , erect and tall , Godlike erect , with native honour clad In naked majesty seemed lords of all : And worthy seemed ; for in their looks divine The image of their glorious Maker shone , Truth , wisdom , sanctitude severe and pure , ( Severe , but in true filial freedom placed ,) Whence true authority in men ; though both Not equal , as their sex not equal seemed ; For contemplation he and valour formed ; For softness she and sweet attractive grace ; He for God only , she for God in him : His fair large front and eye sublime declared Absolute rule ; and hyacinthine locks Round from his parted forelock manly hung Clustering , but not beneath his shoulders broad : She , as a veil , down to the slender waist Her unadorned golden tresses wore Dishevelled , but in wanton ringlets waved As the vine curls her tendrils , which implied Subjection , but required with gentle sway , And by her yielded , by him best received , Yielded with coy submission , modest pride , And sweet , reluctant , amorous delay .
Nor those mysterious parts were then concealed ; Then was not guilty shame , dishonest shame Of nature ' s works , honour dishonourable , Sin - bred , how have ye troubled all mankind With shows instead , mere shows of seeming pure , And banished from man ' s life his happiest life , Simplicity and spotless innocence !
So passed they naked on , nor shunned the sight Of God or Angel ; for they thought no ill : So hand in hand they passed , the loveliest pair , That ever since in love ' s embraces met ; Adam the goodliest man of men since born His sons , the fairest of her daughters Eve .
Under a tuft of shade that on a green Stood whispering soft , by a fresh fountain side They sat them down ; and , after no more toil Of their sweet gardening labour than sufficed To recommend cool Zephyr , and made ease More easy , wholesome thirst and appetite More grateful , to their supper - fruits they fell , Nectarine fruits which the compliant boughs Yielded them , side - long as they sat recline On the soft downy bank damasked with flowers : The savoury pulp they chew , and in the rind , Still as they thirsted , scoop the brimming stream ; Nor gentle purpose , nor endearing smiles Wanted , nor youthful dalliance , as beseems Fair couple , linked in happy nuptial league , Alone as they .
About them frisking played All beasts of the earth , since wild , and of all chase In wood or wilderness , forest or den ; Sporting the lion ramped , and in his paw Dandled the kid ; bears , tigers , ounces , pards , Gambolled before them ; the unwieldy elephant , To make them mirth , used all his might , and wreathed His ? kithetmroboscis ; close the serpent sly , Insinuating , wove with Gordian twine His braided train , and of his fatal guile Gave proof unheeded ; others on the grass Couched , and now filled with pasture gazing sat , Or bedward ruminating ; for the sun , Declined , was hasting now with prone career To the ocean isles , and in the ascending scale Of Heaven the stars that usher evening rose : When Satan still in gaze , as first he stood , Scarce thus at length failed speech recovered sad .
O Hell !
what do mine eyes with grief behold !
Into our room of bliss thus high advanced Creatures of other mould , earth - born perhaps , Not Spirits , yet to heavenly Spirits bright Little inferiour ; whom my thoughts pursue With wonder , and could love , so lively shines In them divine resemblance , and such grace The hand that formed them on their shape hath poured .
Ah !
gentle pair , ye little think how nigh Your change approaches , when all these delights Will vanish , and deliver ye to woe ; More woe , the more your taste is now of joy ; Happy , but for so happy ill secured Long to continue , and this high seat your Heaven Ill fenced for Heaven to keep out such a foe As now is entered ; yet no purposed foe To you , whom I could pity thus forlorn , Though I unpitied : League with you I seek , And mutual amity , so strait , so close , That I with you must dwell , or you with me Henceforth ; my dwelling haply may not please , Like this fair Paradise , your sense ; yet such Accept your Maker ' s work ; he gave it me , Which I as freely give : Hell shall unfold , To entertain you two , her widest gates , And send forth all her kings ; there will be room , Not like these narrow limits , to receive Your numerous offspring ; if no better place , Thank him who puts me loth to this revenge On you who wrong me not for him who wronged .
And should I at your harmless innocence Melt , as I do , yet publick reason just , Honour and empire with revenge enlarged , By conquering this new world , compels me now To do what else , though damned , I should abhor .
So spake the Fiend , and with necessity , The tyrant ' s plea , excused his devilish deeds .
Then from his lofty stand on that high tree Down he alights among the sportful herd Of those four - footed kinds , himself now one , Now other , as their shape served best his end Nearer to view his prey , and , unespied , To mark what of their state he more might learn , By word or action marked .
About them round A lion now he stalks with fiery glare ; Then as a tiger , who by chance hath spied In some purlieu two gentle fawns at play , Straight couches close , then , rising , changes oft His couchant watch , as one who chose his ground , Whence rushing , he might surest seize them both , Griped in each paw : when , Adam first of men To first of women Eve thus moving speech , Turned him , all ear to hear new utterance flow .
Sole partner , and sole part , of all these joys , Dearer thyself than all ; needs must the Power That made us , and for us this ample world , Be infinitely good , and of his good As liberal and free as infinite ; That raised us from the dust , and placed us here In all this happiness , who at his hand Have nothing merited , nor can perform Aught whereof he hath need ; he who requires From us no other service than to keep This one , this easy charge , of all the trees In Paradise that bear delicious fruit So various , not to taste that only tree Of knowledge , planted by the tree of life ; So near grows death to life , whate ' er death is , Some dreadful thing no doubt ; for well thou knowest God hath pronounced it death to taste that tree , The only sign of our obedience left , Among so many signs of power and rule Conferred upon us , and dominion given Over all other creatures that possess Earth , air , and sea .
Then let us not think hard One easy prohibition , who enjoy Free leave so large to all things else , and choice Unlimited of manifold delights : But let us ever praise him , and extol His bounty , following our delightful task , To prune these growing plants , and tend these flowers , Which were it toilsome , yet with thee were sweet .
To whom thus Eve replied .
O thou for whom And from whom I was formed , flesh of thy flesh , And without whom am to no end , my guide And head !
what thou hast said is just and right .
For we to him indeed all praises owe , And daily thanks ; I chiefly , who enjoy So far the happier lot , enjoying thee Pre - eminent by so much odds , while thou Like consort to thyself canst no where find .
That day I oft remember , when from sleep I first awaked , and found myself reposed Under a shade on flowers , much wondering where And what I was , whence thither brought , and how .
Not distant far from thence a murmuring sound Of waters issued from a cave , and spread Into a liquid plain , then stood unmoved Pure as the expanse of Heaven ; I thither went With unexperienced thought , and laid me down On the green bank , to look into the clear Smooth lake , that to me seemed another sky .
As I bent down to look , just opposite A shape within the watery gleam appeared , Bending to look on me : I started back , It started back ; but pleased I soon returned , Pleased it returned as soon with answering looks Of sympathy and love : There I had fixed Mine eyes till now , and pined with vain desire , Had not a voice thus warned me ; ' What thou seest , ' What there thou seest , fair Creature , is thyself ; ' With thee it came and goes : but follow me , ' And I will bring thee where no shadow stays ' Thy coming , and thy soft embraces , he ' Whose image thou art ; him thou shalt enjoy ' Inseparably thine , to him shalt bear ' Multitudes like thyself , and thence be called ' Mother of human race .'
What could I do , But follow straight , invisibly thus led ?
Till I espied thee , fair indeed and tall , Under a platane ; yet methought less fair , Less winning soft , less amiably mild , Than that smooth watery image : Back I turned ; Thou following cryedst aloud , ' Return , fair Eve ; ' Whom flyest thou ?
whom thou flyest , of him thou art , ' His flesh , his bone ; to give thee being I lent ' Out of my side to thee , nearest my heart , ' Substantial life , to have thee by my side ' Henceforth an individual solace dear ; ' Part of my soul I seek thee , and thee claim ' My other half :' With that thy gentle hand Seised mine : I yielded ; and from that time see How beauty is excelled by manly grace , And wisdom , which alone is truly fair .
So spake our general mother , and with eyes Of conjugal attraction unreproved , And meek surrender , half - embracing leaned On our first father ; half her swelling breast Naked met his , under the flowing gold Of her loose tresses hid : he in delight Both of her beauty , and submissive charms , Smiled with superiour love , as Jupiter On Juno smiles , when he impregns the clouds That shed Mayflowers ; and pressed her matron lip With kisses pure : Aside the Devil turned For envy ; yet with jealous leer malign Eyed them askance , and to himself thus plained .
Sight hateful , sight tormenting !
thus these two , Imparadised in one another ' s arms , The happier Eden , shall enjoy their fill Of bliss on bliss ; while I to Hell am thrust , Where neither joy nor love , but fierce desire , Among our other torments not the least , Still unfulfilled with pain of longing pines .
Yet let me not forget what I have gained From their own mouths : All is not theirs , it seems ; One fatal tree there stands , of knowledge called , Forbidden them to taste : Knowledge forbidden Suspicious , reasonless .
Why should their Lord Envy them that ?
Can it be sin to know ?
Can it be death ?
And do they only stand By ignorance ?
Is that their happy state , The proof of their obedience and their faith ?
O fair foundation laid whereon to build Their ruin !
hence I will excite their minds With more desire to know , and to reject Envious commands , invented with design To keep them low , whom knowledge might exalt Equal with Gods : aspiring to be such , They taste and die : What likelier can ensue But first with narrow search I must walk round This garden , and no corner leave unspied ; A chance but chance may lead where I may meet Some wandering Spirit of Heaven by fountain side , Or in thick shade retired , from him to draw What further would be learned .
Live while ye may , Yet happy pair ; enjoy , till I return , Short pleasures , for long woes are to succeed !
So saying , his proud step he scornful turned , But with sly circumspection , and began Through wood , through waste , o ' er hill , o ' er dale , his roam Mean while in utmost longitude , where Heaven With earth and ocean meets , the setting sun Slowly descended , and with right aspect Against the eastern gate of Paradise Levelled his evening rays : It was a rock Of alabaster , piled up to the clouds , Conspicuous far , winding with one ascent Accessible from earth , one entrance high ; The rest was craggy cliff , that overhung Still as it rose , impossible to climb .
Betwixt these rocky pillars Gabriel sat , Chief of the angelick guards , awaiting night ; About him exercised heroick games The unarmed youth of Heaven , but nigh at hand Celestial armoury , shields , helms , and spears , Hung high with diamond flaming , and with gold .
Thither came Uriel , gliding through the even On a sun - beam , swift as a shooting star In autumn thwarts the night , when vapours fired Impress the air , and shows the mariner From what point of his compass to beware Impetuous winds : He thus began in haste .
Gabriel , to thee thy course by lot hath given Charge and strict watch , that to this happy place No evil thing approach or enter in .
This day at highth of noon came to my sphere A Spirit , zealous , as he seemed , to know More of the Almighty ' s works , and chiefly Man , God ' s latest image : I described his way Bent all on speed , and marked his aery gait ; But in the mount that lies from Eden north , Where he first lighted , soon discerned his looks Alien from Heaven , with passions foul obscured : Mine eye pursued him still , but under shade Lost sight of him : One of the banished crew , I fear , hath ventured from the deep , to raise New troubles ; him thy care must be to find .
To whom the winged warriour thus returned .
Uriel , no wonder if thy perfect sight , Amid the sun ' s bright circle where thou sitst , See far and wide : In at this gate none pass The vigilance here placed , but such as come Well known from Heaven ; and since meridian hour No creature thence : If Spirit of other sort , So minded , have o ' er - leaped these earthly bounds On purpose , hard thou knowest it to exclude Spiritual substance with corporeal bar .
But if within the circuit of these walks , In whatsoever shape he lurk , of whom Thou tellest , by morrow dawning I shall know .
So promised he ; and Uriel to his charge Returned on that bright beam , whose point now raised Bore him slope downward to the sun now fallen Beneath the Azores ; whether the prime orb , Incredible how swift , had thither rolled Diurnal , or this less volubil earth , By shorter flight to the east , had left him there Arraying with reflected purple and gold The clouds that on his western throne attend .
Now came still Evening on , and Twilight gray Had in her sober livery all things clad ; Silence accompanied ; for beast and bird , They to their grassy couch , these to their nests Were slunk , all but the wakeful nightingale ; She all night long her amorous descant sung ; Silence was pleased : Now glowed the firmament With living sapphires : Hesperus , that led The starry host , rode brightest , till the moon , Rising in clouded majesty , at length Apparent queen unveiled her peerless light , And o ' er the dark her silver mantle threw .
When Adam thus to Eve .
Fair Consort , the hour Of night , and all things now retired to rest , Mind us of like repose ; since God hath set Labour and rest , as day and night , to men Successive ; and the timely dew of sleep , Now falling with soft slumbrous weight , inclines Our eye - lids : Other creatures all day long Rove idle , unemployed , and less need rest ; Man hath his daily work of body or mind Appointed , which declares his dignity , And the regard of Heaven on all his ways ; While other animals unactive range , And of their doings God takes no account .
To - morrow , ere fresh morning streak the east With first approach of light , we must be risen , And at our pleasant labour , to reform Yon flowery arbours , yonder alleys green , Our walk at noon , with branches overgrown , That mock our scant manuring , and require More hands than ours to lop their wanton growth : Those blossoms also , and those dropping gums , That lie bestrown , unsightly and unsmooth , Ask riddance , if we mean to tread with ease ; Mean while , as Nature wills , night bids us rest .
To whom thus Eve , with perfect beauty adorned My Author and Disposer , what thou bidst Unargued I obey : So God ordains ; God is thy law , thou mine : To know no more Is woman ' s happiest knowledge , and her praise .
With thee conversing I forget all time ; All seasons , and their change , all please alike .
Sweet is the breath of Morn , her rising sweet , With charm of earliest birds : pleasant the sun , When first on this delightful land he spreads His orient beams , on herb , tree , fruit , and flower , Glistering with dew ; fragrant the fertile earth After soft showers ; and sweet the coming on Of grateful Evening mild ; then silent Night , With this her solemn bird , and this fair moon , And these the gems of Heaven , her starry train : But neither breath of Morn , when she ascends With charm of earliest birds ; nor rising sun On this delightful land ; nor herb , fruit , flower , Glistering with dew ; nor fragrance after showers ; Nor grateful Evening mild ; nor silent Night , With this her solemn bird , nor walk by moon , Or glittering star - light , without thee is sweet .
But wherefore all night long shine these ?
for whom This glorious sight , when sleep hath shut all eyes ?
To whom our general ancestor replied .
Daughter of God and Man , accomplished Eve , These have their course to finish round the earth , By morrow evening , and from land to land In order , though to nations yet unborn , Ministring light prepared , they set and rise ; Lest total Darkness should by night regain Her old possession , and extinguish life In Nature and all things ; which these soft fires Not only enlighten , but with kindly heat Of various influence foment and warm , Temper or nourish , or in part shed down Their stellar virtue on all kinds that grow On earth , made hereby apter to receive Perfection from the sun ' s more potent ray .
These then , though unbeheld in deep of night , Shine not in vain ; nor think , though men were none , That Heaven would want spectators , God want praise : Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth Unseen , both when we wake , and when we sleep : All these with ceaseless praise his works behold Both day and night : How often from the steep Of echoing hill or thicket have we heard Celestial voices to the midnight air , Sole , or responsive each to others note , Singing their great Creator ?
oft in bands While they keep watch , or nightly rounding walk , With heavenly touch of instrumental sounds In full harmonick number joined , their songs Divide the night , and lift our thoughts to Heaven .
Thus talking , hand in hand alone they passed On to their blissful bower : it was a place Chosen by the sovran Planter , when he framed All things to Man ' s delightful use ; the roof Of thickest covert was inwoven shade Laurel and myrtle , and what higher grew Of firm and fragrant leaf ; on either side Acanthus , and each odorous bushy shrub , Fenced up the verdant wall ; each beauteous flower , Iris all hues , roses , and jessamin , Reared high their flourished heads between , and wrought Mosaick ; underfoot the violet , Crocus , and hyacinth , with rich inlay Broidered the ground , more coloured than with stone Of costliest emblem : Other creature here , Bird , beast , insect , or worm , durst enter none , Such was their awe of Man .
In shadier bower More sacred and sequestered , though but feigned , Pan or Sylvanus never slept , nor Nymph Nor Faunus haunted .
Here , in close recess , With flowers , garlands , and sweet - smelling herbs , Espoused Eve decked first her nuptial bed ; And heavenly quires the hymenaean sung , What day the genial Angel to our sire Brought her in naked beauty more adorned , More lovely , than Pandora , whom the Gods Endowed with all their gifts , and O !
too like In sad event , when to the unwiser son Of Japhet brought by Hermes , she ensnared Mankind with her fair looks , to be avenged On him who had stole Jove ' s authentick fire .
Thus , at their shady lodge arrived , both stood , Both turned , and under open sky adored The God that made both sky , air , earth , and heaven , Which they beheld , the moon ' s resplendent globe , And starry pole : Thou also madest the night , Maker Omnipotent , and thou the day , Which we , in our appointed work employed , Have finished , happy in our mutual help And mutual love , the crown of all our bliss Ordained by thee ; and this delicious place For us too large , where thy abundance wants Partakers , and uncropt falls to the ground .
But thou hast promised from us two a race To fill the earth , who shall with us extol Thy goodness infinite , both when we wake , And when we seek , as now , thy gift of sleep .
This said unanimous , and other rites Observing none , but adoration pure Which God likes best , into their inmost bower Handed they went ; and , eased the putting off These troublesome disguises which we wear , Straight side by side were laid ; nor turned , I ween , Adam from his fair spouse , nor Eve the rites Mysterious of connubial love refused : Whatever hypocrites austerely talk Of purity , and place , and innocence , Defaming as impure what God declares Pure , and commands to some , leaves free to all .
Our Maker bids encrease ; who bids abstain But our Destroyer , foe to God and Man ?
Hail , wedded Love , mysterious law , true source Of human offspring , sole propriety In Paradise of all things common else !
By thee adulterous Lust was driven from men Among the bestial herds to range ; by thee Founded in reason , loyal , just , and pure , Relations dear , and all the charities Of father , son , and brother , first were known .
Far be it , that I should write thee sin or blame , Or think thee unbefitting holiest place , Perpetual fountain of domestick sweets , Whose bed is undefiled and chaste pronounced , Present , or past , as saints and patriarchs used .
Here Love his golden shafts employs , here lights His constant lamp , and waves his purple wings , Reigns here and revels ; not in the bought smile Of harlots , loveless , joyless , unendeared , Casual fruition ; nor in court - amours , Mixed dance , or wanton mask , or midnight ball , Or serenate , which the starved lover sings To his proud fair , best quitted with disdain .
These , lulled by nightingales , embracing slept , And on their naked limbs the flowery roof Showered roses , which the morn repaired .
Sleep on , Blest pair ; and O ! yet happiest , if ye seek No happier state , and know to know no more .
Now had night measured with her shadowy cone Half way up hill this vast sublunar vault , And from their ivory port the Cherubim , Forth issuing at the accustomed hour , stood armed To their night watches in warlike parade ; When Gabriel to his next in power thus spake .
Uzziel , half these draw off , and coast the south With strictest watch ; these other wheel the north ; Our circuit meets full west .
As flame they part , Half wheeling to the shield , half to the spear .
From these , two strong and subtle Spirits he called That near him stood , and gave them thus in charge .
Ithuriel and Zephon , with winged speed Search through this garden , leave unsearched no nook ; But chiefly where those two fair creatures lodge , Now laid perhaps asleep , secure of harm .
This evening from the sun ' s decline arrived , Who tells of some infernal Spirit seen Hitherward bent ( who could have thought ?)
escaped The bars of Hell , on errand bad no doubt : Such , where ye find , seise fast , and hither bring .
So saying , on he led his radiant files , Dazzling the moon ; these to the bower direct In search of whom they sought : Him there they found Squat like a toad , close at the ear of Eve , Assaying by his devilish art to reach The organs of her fancy , and with them forge Illusions , as he list , phantasms and dreams ; Or if , inspiring venom , he might taint The animal spirits , that from pure blood arise Like gentle breaths from rivers pure , thence raise At least distempered , discontented thoughts , Vain hopes , vain aims , inordinate desires , Blown up with high conceits ingendering pride .
Him thus intent Ithuriel with his spear Touched lightly ; for no falshood can endure Touch of celestial temper , but returns Of force to its own likeness : Up he starts Discovered and surprised .
As when a spark Lights on a heap of nitrous powder , laid Fit for the tun some magazine to store Against a rumoured war , the smutty grain , With sudden blaze diffused , inflames the air ; So started up in his own shape the Fiend .
Back stept those two fair Angels , half amazed So sudden to behold the grisly king ; Yet thus , unmoved with fear , accost him soon .
Which of those rebel Spirits adjudged to Hell Comest thou , escaped thy prison ?
and , transformed , Why sat ' st thou like an enemy in wait , Here watching at the head of these that sleep ?
Know ye not then said Satan , filled with scorn , Know ye not me ?
ye knew me once no mate For you , there sitting where ye durst not soar : Not to know me argues yourselves unknown , The lowest of your throng ; or , if ye know , Why ask ye , and superfluous begin Your message , like to end as much in vain ?
To whom thus Zephon , answering scorn with scorn .
Think not , revolted Spirit , thy shape the same , Or undiminished brightness to be known , As when thou stoodest in Heaven upright and pure ; That glory then , when thou no more wast good , Departed from thee ; and thou resemblest now Thy sin and place of doom obscure and foul .
But come , for thou , be sure , shalt give account To him who sent us , whose charge is to keep This place inviolable , and these from harm .
So spake the Cherub ; and his grave rebuke , Severe in youthful beauty , added grace Invincible : Abashed the Devil stood , And felt how awful goodness is , and saw Virtue in her shape how lovely ; saw , and pined His loss ; but chiefly to find here observed His lustre visibly impaired ; yet seemed Undaunted .
If I must contend , said he , Best with the best , the sender , not the sent , Or all at once ; more glory will be won , Or less be lost .
Thy fear , said Zephon bold , Will save us trial what the least can do Single against thee wicked , and thence weak .
The Fiend replied not , overcome with rage ; But , like a proud steed reined , went haughty on , Champing his iron curb : To strive or fly He held it vain ; awe from above had quelled His heart , not else dismayed .
Now drew they nigh The western point , where those half - rounding guards Just met , and closing stood in squadron joined , A waiting next command .
To whom their Chief , Gabriel , from the front thus called aloud .
O friends !
I hear the tread of nimble feet Hasting this way , and now by glimpse discern Ithuriel and Zephon through the shade ; And with them comes a third of regal port , But faded splendour wan ; who by his gait And fierce demeanour seems the Prince of Hell , Not likely to part hence without contest ; Stand firm , for in his look defiance lours .
He scarce had ended , when those two approached , And brief related whom they brought , where found , How busied , in what form and posture couched .
To whom with stern regard thus Gabriel spake .
Why hast thou , Satan , broke the bounds prescribed To thy transgressions , and disturbed the charge Of others , who approve not to transgress By thy example , but have power and right To question thy bold entrance on this place ; Employed , it seems , to violate sleep , and those Whose dwelling God hath planted here in bliss !
To whom thus Satan with contemptuous brow .
Gabriel ?
thou hadst in Heaven the esteem of wise , And such I held thee ; but this question asked Puts me in doubt .
Lives there who loves his pain !
Who would not , finding way , break loose from Hell , Though thither doomed !
Thou wouldst thyself , no doubt And boldly venture to whatever place Farthest from pain , where thou mightst hope to change Torment with ease , and soonest recompense Dole with delight , which in this place I sought ; To thee no reason , who knowest only good , But evil hast not tried : and wilt object His will who bounds us !
Let him surer bar His iron gates , if he intends our stay In that dark durance : Thus much what was asked .
The rest is true , they found me where they say ; But that implies not violence or harm .
Thus he in scorn .
The warlike Angel moved , Disdainfully half smiling , thus replied .
O loss of one in Heaven to judge of wise Since Satan fell , whom folly overthrew , And now returns him from his prison ' scaped , Gravely in doubt whether to hold them wise Or not , who ask what boldness brought him hither Unlicensed from his bounds in Hell prescribed ; So wise he judges it to fly from pain However , and to ' scape his punishment !
So judge thou still , presumptuous !
till the wrath , Which thou incurrest by flying , meet thy flight Sevenfold , and scourge that wisdom back to Hell , Which taught thee yet no better , that no pain Can equal anger infinite provoked .
But wherefore thou alone ?
wherefore with thee Came not all hell broke loose ?
or thou than they Less hardy to endure ?
Courageous Chief !
The first in flight from pain !
hadst thou alleged To thy deserted host this cause of flight , Thou surely hadst not come sole fugitive .
To which the Fiend thus answered , frowning stern .
Not that I less endure , or shrink from pain , Insulting Angel !
well thou knowest I stood Thy fiercest , when in battle to thy aid The blasting vollied thunder made all speed , And seconded thy else not dreaded spear .
But still thy words at random , as before , Argue thy inexperience what behoves From hard assays and ill successes past A faithful leader , not to hazard all Through ways of danger by himself untried : I , therefore , I alone first undertook To wing the desolate abyss , and spy This new created world , whereof in Hell Fame is not silent , here in hope to find Better abode , and my afflicted Powers To settle here on earth , or in mid air ; Though for possession put to try once more What thou and thy gay legions dare against ; Whose easier business were to serve their Lord High up in Heaven , with songs to hymn his throne , And practised distances to cringe , not fight , To whom the warriour Angel soon replied .
To say and straight unsay , pretending first Wise to fly pain , professing next the spy , Argues no leader but a liear traced , Satan , and couldst thou faithful add ?
O name , O sacred name of faithfulness profaned !
Faithful to whom ?
to thy rebellious crew ?
Army of Fiends , fit body to fit head .
Was this your discipline and faith engaged , Your military obedience , to dissolve Allegiance to the acknowledged Power supreme ?
And thou , sly hypocrite , who now wouldst seem Patron of liberty , who more than thou Once fawned , and cringed , and servily adored Heaven ' s awful Monarch ?
wherefore , but in hope To dispossess him , and thyself to reign ?
But mark what I arreed thee now , Avant ; Fly neither whence thou fledst !
If from this hour Within these hallowed limits thou appear , Back to the infernal pit I drag thee chained , And seal thee so , as henceforth not to scorn The facile gates of Hell too slightly barred .
So threatened he ; but Satan to no threats Gave heed , but waxing more in rage replied .
Then when I am thy captive talk of chains , Proud limitary Cherub !
but ere then Far heavier load thyself expect to feel From my prevailing arm , though Heaven ' s King Ride on thy wings , and thou with thy compeers , Us ' d to the yoke , drawest his triumphant wheels In progress through the road of Heaven star - paved .
While thus he spake , the angelick squadron bright Turned fiery red , sharpening in mooned horns Their phalanx , and began to hem him round With ported spears , as thick as when a field Of Ceres ripe for harvest waving bends Her bearded grove of ears , which way the wind Sways them ; the careful plowman doubting stands , Left on the threshing floor his hopeless sheaves Prove chaff .
On the other side , Satan , alarmed , Collecting all his might , dilated stood , Like Teneriff or Atlas , unremoved : His stature reached the sky , and on his crest Sat Horrour plumed ; nor wanted in his grasp What seemed both spear and shield : Now dreadful deeds Might have ensued , nor only Paradise In this commotion , but the starry cope Of Heaven perhaps , or all the elements At least had gone to wrack , disturbed and torn With violence of this conflict , had not soon The Eternal , to prevent such horrid fray , Hung forth in Heaven his golden scales , yet seen Betwixt Astrea and the Scorpion sign , Wherein all things created first he weighed , The pendulous round earth with balanced air In counterpoise , now ponders all events , Battles and realms : In these he put two weights , The sequel each of parting and of fight : The latter quick up flew , and kicked the beam , Which Gabriel spying , thus bespake the Fiend .
Satan , I know thy strength , and thou knowest mine ; Neither our own , but given : What folly then To boast what arms can do ?
since thine no more Than Heaven permits , nor mine , though doubled now To trample thee as mire : For proof look up , And read thy lot in yon celestial sign ; Where thou art weighed , and shown how light , how weak , If thou resist .
The Fiend looked up , and knew His mounted scale aloft : Nor more ; but fled Murmuring , and with him fled the shades of night .
Book V
Now Morn , her rosy steps in the eastern clime Advancing , sowed the earth with orient pearl , When Adam waked , so customed ; for his sleep Was aery - light , from pure digestion bred , And temperate vapours bland , which the only sound Of leaves and fuming rills , Aurora ' s fan , Lightly dispersed , and the shrill matin song Of birds on every bough ; so much the more His wonder was to find unwakened Eve With tresses discomposed , and glowing cheek , As through unquiet rest : He , on his side Leaning half raised , with looks of cordial love Hung over her enamoured , and beheld Beauty , which , whether waking or asleep , Shot forth peculiar graces ; then with voice Mild , as when Zephyrus on Flora breathes , Her hand soft touching , whispered thus .
Awake , My fairest , my espoused , my latest found , Heaven ' s last best gift , my ever new delight !
Awake : The morning shines , and the fresh field Calls us ; we lose the prime , to mark how spring Our tender plants , how blows the citron grove , What drops the myrrh , and what the balmy reed , How nature paints her colours , how the bee Sits on the bloom extracting liquid sweet .
Such whispering waked her , but with startled eye On Adam , whom embracing , thus she spake .
O sole in whom my thoughts find all repose , My glory , my perfection !
glad I see Thy face , and morn returned ; for I this night ( Such night till this I never passed ) have dreamed , If dreamed , not , as I oft am wont , of thee , Works of day past , or morrow ' s next design , But of offence and trouble , which my mind Knew never till this irksome night : Methought , Close at mine ear one called me forth to walk With gentle voice ; I thought it thine : It said , ' Why sleepest thou , Eve ?
now is the pleasant time , ' The cool , the silent , save where silence yields ' To the night - warbling bird , that now awake ' Tunes sweetest his love - laboured song ; now reigns ' Full - orbed the moon , and with more pleasing light ' Shadowy sets off the face of things ; in vain , ' If none regard ; Heaven wakes with all his eyes , ' Whom to behold but thee , Nature ' s desire ?
' In whose sight all things joy , with ravishment ' Attracted by thy beauty still to gaze .'
I rose as at thy call , but found thee not ; To find thee I directed then my walk ; And on , methought , alone I passed through ways That brought me on a sudden to the tree Of interdicted knowledge : fair it seemed , Much fairer to my fancy than by day : And , as I wondering looked , beside it stood One shaped and winged like one of those from Heaven By us oft seen ; his dewy locks distilled Ambrosia ; on that tree he also gazed ; And ' O fair plant ,' said he , ' with fruit surcharged , ' Deigns none to ease thy load , and taste thy sweet , ' Nor God , nor Man ?
Is knowledge so despised ?
' Or envy , or what reserve forbids to taste ?
' Forbid who will , none shall from me withhold ' Longer thy offered good ; why else set here ?
This said , he paused not , but with venturous arm He plucked , he tasted ; me damp horrour chilled At such bold words vouched with a deed so bold : But he thus , overjoyed ; ' O fruit divine , ' Sweet of thyself , but much more sweet thus cropt , ' Forbidden here , it seems , as only fit ' For Gods , yet able to make Gods of Men : ' And why not Gods of Men ; since good , the more ' Communicated , more abundant grows , ' The author not impaired , but honoured more ?
' Here , happy creature , fair angelick Eve !
' Partake thou also ; happy though thou art , ' Happier thou mayest be , worthier canst not be : ' Taste this , and be henceforth among the Gods ' Thyself a Goddess , not to earth confined , ' But sometimes in the air , as we , sometimes ' Ascend to Heaven , by merit thine , and see ' What life the Gods live there , and such live thou !'
So saying , he drew nigh , and to me held , Even to my mouth of that same fruit held part Which he had plucked ; the pleasant savoury smell So quickened appetite , that I , methought , Could not but taste .
Forthwith up to the clouds With him I flew , and underneath beheld The earth outstretched immense , a prospect wide And various : Wondering at my flight and change To this high exaltation ; suddenly My guide was gone , and I , methought , sunk down , And fell asleep ; but O , how glad I waked To find this but a dream !
Thus Eve her night Related , and thus Adam answered sad .
Best image of myself , and dearer half , The trouble of thy thoughts this night in sleep Affects me equally ; nor can I like This uncouth dream , of evil sprung , I fear ; Yet evil whence ?
in thee can harbour none , Created pure .
But know that in the soul Are many lesser faculties , that serve Reason as chief ; among these Fancy next Her office holds ; of all external things Which the five watchful senses represent , She forms imaginations , aery shapes , Which Reason , joining or disjoining , frames All what we affirm or what deny , and call Our knowledge or opinion ; then retires Into her private cell , when nature rests .
Oft in her absence mimick Fancy wakes To imitate her ; but , misjoining shapes , Wild work produces oft , and most in dreams ; Ill matching words and deeds long past or late .
Some such resemblances , methinks , I find Of our last evening ' s talk , in this thy dream , But with addition strange ; yet be not sad .
Evil into the mind of God or Man May come and go , so unreproved , and leave No spot or blame behind : Which gives me hope That what in sleep thou didst abhor to dream , Waking thou never will consent to do .
Be not disheartened then , nor cloud those looks , That wont to be more cheerful and serene , Than when fair morning first smiles on the world ; And let us to our fresh employments rise Among the groves , the fountains , and the flowers That open now their choisest bosomed smells , Reserved from night , and kept for thee in store .
So cheered he his fair spouse , and she was cheered ; But silently a gentle tear let fall From either eye , and wiped them with her hair ; Two other precious drops that ready stood , Each in their crystal sluice , he ere they fell Kissed , as the gracious signs of sweet remorse And pious awe , that feared to have offended .
So all was cleared , and to the field they haste .
But first , from under shady arborous roof Soon as they forth were come to open sight Of day - spring , and the sun , who , scarce up - risen , With wheels yet hovering o ' er the ocean - brim , Shot parallel to the earth his dewy ray , Discovering in wide landskip all the east Of Paradise and Eden ' s happy plains , Lowly they bowed adoring , and began Their orisons , each morning duly paid In various style ; for neither various style Nor holy rapture wanted they to praise Their Maker , in fit strains pronounced , or sung Unmeditated ; such prompt eloquence Flowed from their lips , in prose or numerous verse , More tuneable than needed lute or harp To add more sweetness ; and they thus began .
These are thy glorious works , Parent of good , Almighty !
Thine this universal frame , Thus wonderous fair ; Thyself how wonderous then !
Unspeakable , who sitst above these heavens To us invisible , or dimly seen In these thy lowest works ; yet these declare Thy goodness beyond thought , and power divine .
Speak , ye who best can tell , ye sons of light , Angels ; for ye behold him , and with songs And choral symphonies , day without night , Circle his throne rejoicing ; ye in Heaven On Earth join all ye Creatures to extol Him first , him last , him midst , and without end .
Fairest of stars , last in the train of night , If better thou belong not to the dawn , Sure pledge of day , that crownest the smiling morn With thy bright circlet , praise him in thy sphere , While day arises , that sweet hour of prime .
Thou Sun , of this great world both eye and soul , Acknowledge him thy greater ; sound his praise In thy eternal course , both when thou climbest , And when high noon hast gained , and when thou fallest .
Moon , that now meetest the orient sun , now flyest , With the fixed Stars , fixed in their orb that flies ; And ye five other wandering Fires , that move In mystick dance not without song , resound His praise , who out of darkness called up light .
Air , and ye Elements , the eldest birth Of Nature ' s womb , that in quaternion run Perpetual circle , multiform ; and mix And nourish all things ; let your ceaseless change Vary to our great Maker still new praise .
Ye Mists and Exhalations , that now rise From hill or steaming lake , dusky or gray , Till the sun paint your fleecy skirts with gold , In honour to the world ' s great Author rise ; Whether to deck with clouds the uncoloured sky , Or wet the thirsty earth with falling showers , Rising or falling still advance his praise .
His praise , ye Winds , that from four quarters blow , Breathe soft or loud ; and , wave your tops , ye Pines , With every plant , in sign of worship wave .
Fountains , and ye that warble , as ye flow , Melodious murmurs , warbling tune his praise .
Join voices , all ye living Souls : Ye Birds , That singing up to Heaven - gate ascend , Bear on your wings and in your notes his praise .
Ye that in waters glide , and ye that walk The earth , and stately tread , or lowly creep ; Witness if I be silent , morn or even , To hill , or valley , fountain , or fresh shade , Made vocal by my song , and taught his praise .
Hail , universal Lord , be bounteous still To give us only good ; and if the night Have gathered aught of evil , or concealed , Disperse it , as now light dispels the dark !
So prayed they innocent , and to their thoughts Firm peace recovered soon , and wonted calm .
On to their morning ' s rural work they haste , Among sweet dews and flowers ; where any row Of fruit - trees over - woody reached too far Their pampered boughs , and needed hands to check Fruitless embraces : or they led the vine To wed her elm ; she , spoused , about him twines Her marriageable arms , and with him brings Her dower , the adopted clusters , to adorn His barren leaves .
Them thus employed beheld With pity Heaven ' s high King , and to him called Raphael , the sociable Spirit , that deigned To travel with Tobias , and secured His marriage with the seventimes - wedded maid .
Raphael , said he , thou hearest what stir on Earth Satan , from Hell ' scaped through the darksome gulf , Hath raised in Paradise ; and how disturbed This night the human pair ; how he designs In them at once to ruin all mankind .
Go therefore , half this day as friend with friend Converse with Adam , in what bower or shade Thou findest him from the heat of noon retired , To respite his day - labour with repast , Or with repose ; and such discourse bring on , As may advise him of his happy state , Happiness in his power left free to will , Left to his own free will , his will though free , Yet mutable ; whence warn him to beware He swerve not , too secure : Tell him withal His danger , and from whom ; what enemy , Late fallen himself from Heaven , is plotting now The fall of others from like state of bliss ; By violence ?
no , for that shall be withstood ; But by deceit and lies : This let him know , Lest , wilfully transgressing , he pretend Surprisal , unadmonished , unforewarned .
So spake the Eternal Father , and fulfilled All justice : Nor delayed the winged Saint After his charge received ; but from among Thousand celestial Ardours , where he stood Veiled with his gorgeous wings , up springing light , Flew through the midst of Heaven ; the angelick quires , On each hand parting , to his speed gave way Through all the empyreal road ; till , at the gate Of Heaven arrived , the gate self - opened wide On golden hinges turning , as by work Divine the sovran Architect had framed .
From hence no cloud , or , to obstruct his sight , Star interposed , however small he sees , Not unconformed to other shining globes , Earth , and the garden of God , with cedars crowned Above all hills .
As when by night the glass Of Galileo , less assured , observes Imagined lands and regions in the moon : Or pilot , from amidst the Cyclades Delos or Samos first appearing , kens A cloudy spot .
Down thither prone in flight He speeds , and through the vast ethereal sky Sails between worlds and worlds , with steady wing Now on the polar winds , then with quick fan Winnows the buxom air ; till , within soar Of towering eagles , to all the fowls he seems A phoenix , gazed by all as that sole bird , When , to enshrine his reliques in the Sun ' s Bright temple , to Egyptian Thebes he flies .
At once on the eastern cliff of Paradise He lights , and to his proper shape returns A Seraph winged : Six wings he wore , to shade His lineaments divine ; the pair that clad Each shoulder broad , came mantling o ' er his breast With regal ornament ; the middle pair Girt like a starry zone his waist , and round Skirted his loins and thighs with downy gold And colours dipt in Heaven ; the third his feet Shadowed from either heel with feathered mail , Sky - tinctured grain .
Like Maia ' s son he stood , And shook his plumes , that heavenly fragrance filled The circuit wide .
Straight knew him all the bands Of Angels under watch ; and to his state , And to his message high , in honour rise ; For on some message high they guessed him bound .
Their glittering tents he passed , and now is come Into the blissful field , through groves of myrrh , And flowering odours , cassia , nard , and balm ; A wilderness of sweets ; for Nature here Wantoned as in her prime , and played at will Her virgin fancies pouring forth more sweet , Wild above rule or art , enormous bliss .
Him through the spicy forest onward come Adam discerned , as in the door he sat Of his cool bower , while now the mounted sun Shot down direct his fervid rays to warm Earth ' s inmost womb , more warmth than Adam needs : And Eve within , due at her hour prepared For dinner savoury fruits , of taste to please True appetite , and not disrelish thirst Of nectarous draughts between , from milky stream , Berry or grape : To whom thus Adam called .
Haste hither , Eve , and worth thy sight behold Eastward among those trees , what glorious shape Comes this way moving ; seems another morn Risen on mid - noon ; some great behest from Heaven To us perhaps he brings , and will vouchsafe This day to be our guest .
But go with speed , And , what thy stores contain , bring forth , and pour Abundance , fit to honour and receive Our heavenly stranger : Well we may afford Our givers their own gifts , and large bestow From large bestowed , where Nature multiplies Her fertile growth , and by disburthening grows More fruitful , which instructs us not to spare .
To whom thus Eve .
Adam , earth ' s hallowed mould , Of God inspired !
small store will serve , where store , All seasons , ripe for use hangs on the stalk ; Save what by frugal storing firmness gains To nourish , and superfluous moist consumes : But I will haste , and from each bough and brake , Each plant and juciest gourd , will pluck such choice To entertain our Angel - guest , as he Beholding shall confess , that here on Earth God hath dispensed his bounties as in Heaven .
So saying , with dispatchful looks in haste She turns , on hospitable thoughts intent What choice to choose for delicacy best , What order , so contrived as not to mix Tastes , not well joined , inelegant , but bring Taste after taste upheld with kindliest change ; Bestirs her then , and from each tender stalk Whatever Earth , all - bearing mother , yields In India East or West , or middle shore In Pontus or the Punick coast , or where Alcinous reigned , fruit of all kinds , in coat Rough , or smooth rind , or bearded husk , or shell , She gathers , tribute large , and on the board Heaps with unsparing hand ; for drink the grape She crushes , inoffensive must , and meaths From many a berry , and from sweet kernels pressed She tempers dulcet creams ; nor these to hold Wants her fit vessels pure ; then strows the ground With rose and odours from the shrub unfumed .
Mean while our primitive great sire , to meet His God - like guest , walks forth , without more train Accompanied than with his own complete Perfections ; in himself was all his state , More solemn than the tedious pomp that waits On princes , when their rich retinue long Of horses led , and grooms besmeared with gold , Dazzles the croud , and sets them all agape .
Nearer his presence Adam , though not awed , Yet with submiss approach and reverence meek , As to a superiour nature bowing low , Thus said .
Native of Heaven , for other place None can than Heaven such glorious shape contain ; Since , by descending from the thrones above , Those happy places thou hast deigned a while To want , and honour these , vouchsafe with us Two only , who yet by sovran gift possess This spacious ground , in yonder shady bower To rest ; and what the garden choicest bears To sit and taste , till this meridian heat Be over , and the sun more cool decline .
Whom thus the angelick Virtue answered mild .
Adam , I therefore came ; nor art thou such Created , or such place hast here to dwell , As may not oft invite , though Spirits of Heaven , To visit thee ; lead on then where thy bower O ' ershades ; for these mid - hours , till evening rise , I have at will .
So to the sylvan lodge They came , that like Pomona ' s arbour smiled , With flowerets decked , and fragrant smells ; but Eve , Undecked save with herself , more lovely fair Than Wood - Nymph , or the fairest Goddess feigned Of three that in mount Ida naked strove , Stood to entertain her guest from Heaven ; no veil She needed , virtue - proof ; no thought infirm Altered her cheek .
On whom the Angel Hail Bestowed , the holy salutation used Long after to blest Mary , second Eve .
Hail , Mother of Mankind , whose fruitful womb Shall fill the world more numerous with thy sons , Than with these various fruits the trees of God Have heaped this table !-- Raised of grassy turf Their table was , and mossy seats had round , And on her ample square from side to side All autumn piled , though spring and autumn here Danced hand in hand .
A while discourse they hold ; No fear lest dinner cool ; when thus began Our author .
Heavenly stranger , please to taste These bounties , which our Nourisher , from whom All perfect good , unmeasured out , descends , To us for food and for delight hath caused The earth to yield ; unsavoury food perhaps To spiritual natures ; only this I know , That one celestial Father gives to all .
To whom the Angel .
Therefore what he gives ( Whose praise be ever sung ) to Man in part Spiritual , may of purest Spirits be found No ingrateful food : And food alike those pure Intelligential substances require , As doth your rational ; and both contain Within them every lower faculty Of sense , whereby they hear , see , smell , touch , taste , Tasting concoct , digest , assimilate , And corporeal to incorporeal turn .
For know , whatever was created , needs To be sustained and fed : Of elements The grosser feeds the purer , earth the sea , Earth and the sea feed air , the air those fires Ethereal , and as lowest first the moon ; Whence in her visage round those spots , unpurged Vapours not yet into her substance turned .
Nor doth the moon no nourishment exhale From her moist continent to higher orbs .
The sun that light imparts to all , receives From all his alimental recompence In humid exhalations , and at even Sups with the ocean .
Though in Heaven the trees Of life ambrosial fruitage bear , and vines Yield nectar ; though from off the boughs each morn We brush mellifluous dews , and find the ground Covered with pearly grain : Yet God hath here Varied his bounty so with new delights , As may compare with Heaven ; and to taste Think not I shall be nice .
So down they sat , And to their viands fell ; nor seemingly The Angel , nor in mist , the common gloss Of Theologians ; but with keen dispatch Of real hunger , and concoctive heat To transubstantiate : What redounds , transpires Through Spirits with ease ; nor wonder ; if by fire Of sooty coal the empirick alchemist Can turn , or holds it possible to turn , Metals of drossiest ore to perfect gold , As from the mine .
Mean while at table Eve Ministered naked , and their flowing cups With pleasant liquours crowned : O innocence Deserving Paradise !
if ever , then , Then had the sons of God excuse to have been Enamoured at that sight ; but in those hearts Love unlibidinous reigned , nor jealousy Was understood , the injured lover ' s hell .
Thus when with meats and drinks they had sufficed , Not burdened nature , sudden mind arose In Adam , not to let the occasion pass Given him by this great conference to know Of things above his world , and of their being Who dwell in Heaven , whose excellence he saw Transcend his own so far ; whose radiant forms , Divine effulgence , whose high power , so far Exceeded human ; and his wary speech Thus to the empyreal minister he framed .
Inhabitant with God , now know I well Thy favour , in this honour done to Man ; Under whose lowly roof thou hast vouchsafed To enter , and these earthly fruits to taste , Food not of Angels , yet accepted so , As that more willingly thou couldst not seem At Heaven ' s high feasts to have fed : yet what compare To whom the winged Hierarch replied .
O Adam , One Almighty is , from whom All things proceed , and up to him return , If not depraved from good , created all Such to perfection , one first matter all , Endued with various forms , various degrees Of substance , and , in things that live , of life ; But more refined , more spiritous , and pure , As nearer to him placed , or nearer tending Each in their several active spheres assigned , Till body up to spirit work , in bounds Proportioned to each kind .
So from the root Springs lighter the green stalk , from thence the leaves More aery , last the bright consummate flower Spirits odorous breathes : flowers and their fruit , Man ' s nourishment , by gradual scale sublimed , To vital spirits aspire , to animal , To intellectual ; give both life and sense , Fancy and understanding ; whence the soul Reason receives , and reason is her being , Discursive , or intuitive ; discourse Is oftest yours , the latter most is ours , Differing but in degree , of kind the same .
Wonder not then , what God for you saw good If I refuse not , but convert , as you To proper substance .
Time may come , when Men With Angels may participate , and find No inconvenient diet , nor too light fare ; And from these corporal nutriments perhaps Your bodies may at last turn all to spirit , Improved by tract of time , and , winged , ascend Ethereal , as we ; or may , at choice , Here or in heavenly Paradises dwell ; If ye be found obedient , and retain Unalterably firm his love entire , Whose progeny you are .
Mean while enjoy Your fill what happiness this happy state Can comprehend , incapable of more .
To whom the patriarch of mankind replied .
O favourable Spirit , propitious guest , Well hast thou taught the way that might direct Our knowledge , and the scale of nature set From center to circumference ; whereon , In contemplation of created things , By steps we may ascend to God .
But say , What meant that caution joined , If ye be found Obedient ?
Can we want obedience then To him , or possibly his love desert , Who formed us from the dust and placed us here Full to the utmost measure of what bliss Human desires can seek or apprehend ?
To whom the Angel .
Son of Heaven and Earth , Attend !
That thou art happy , owe to God ; That thou continuest such , owe to thyself , That is , to thy obedience ; therein stand .
This was that caution given thee ; be advised .
God made thee perfect , not immutable ; And good he made thee , but to persevere He left it in thy power ; ordained thy will By nature free , not over - ruled by fate Inextricable , or strict necessity : Our voluntary service he requires , Not our necessitated ; such with him Finds no acceptance , nor can find ; for how Can hearts , not free , be tried whether they serve Willing or no , who will but what they must By destiny , and can no other choose ?
Myself , and all the angelick host , that stand In sight of God , enthroned , our happy state Hold , as you yours , while our obedience holds ; On other surety none : Freely we serve , Because we freely love , as in our will To love or not ; in this we stand or fall : And some are fallen , to disobedience fallen , And so from Heaven to deepest Hell ; O fall From what high state of bliss , into what woe !
To whom our great progenitor .
Thy words Attentive , and with more delighted ear , Divine instructer , I have heard , than when Cherubick songs by night from neighbouring hills Aereal musick send : Nor knew I not To be both will and deed created free ; Yet that we never shall forget to love Our Maker , and obey him whose command Single is yet so just , my constant thoughts Assured me , and still assure : Though what thou tellest Hath passed in Heaven , some doubt within me move , But more desire to hear , if thou consent , The full relation , which must needs be strange , Worthy of sacred silence to be heard ; And we have yet large day , for scarce the sun Hath finished half his journey , and scarce begins His other half in the great zone of Heaven .
Thus Adam made request ; and Raphael , After short pause assenting , thus began .
High matter thou enjoinest me , O prime of men , Sad task and hard : For how shall I relate To human sense the invisible exploits Of warring Spirits ?
how , without remorse , The ruin of so many glorious once And perfect while they stood ?
how last unfold The secrets of another world , perhaps Not lawful to reveal ?
yet for thy good This is dispensed ; and what surmounts the reach Of human sense , I shall delineate so , By likening spiritual to corporal forms , As may express them best ; though what if Earth Be but a shadow of Heaven , and things therein Each to other like , more than on earth is thought ?
As yet this world was not , and Chaos wild Reigned where these Heavens now roll , where Earth now rests Upon her center poised ; when on a day ( For time , though in eternity , applied To motion , measures all things durable By present , past , and future ,) on such day As Heaven ' s great year brings forth , the empyreal host Of Angels by imperial summons called , Innumerable before the Almighty ' s throne Forthwith , from all the ends of Heaven , appeared Under their Hierarchs in orders bright : Ten thousand thousand ensigns high advanced , Standards and gonfalons ' twixt van and rear Stream in the air , and for distinction serve Of hierarchies , of orders , and degrees ; Or in their glittering tissues bear imblazed Holy memorials , acts of zeal and love Recorded eminent .
Thus when in orbs Of circuit inexpressible they stood , Orb within orb , the Father Infinite , By whom in bliss imbosomed sat the Son , Amidst as from a flaming mount , whose top Brightness had made invisible , thus spake .
Hear , all ye Angels , progeny of light , Thrones , Dominations , Princedoms , Virtues , Powers ; Hear my decree , which unrevoked shall stand .
This day I have begot whom I declare My only Son , and on this holy hill Him have anointed , whom ye now behold At my right hand ; your head I him appoint ; And by myself have sworn , to him shall bow All knees in Heaven , and shall confess him Lord : Under his great vice - gerent reign abide United , as one individual soul , For ever happy : Him who disobeys , Me disobeys , breaks union , and that day , Cast out from God and blessed vision , falls Into utter darkness , deep ingulfed , his place Ordained without redemption , without end .
So spake the Omnipotent , and with his words All seemed well pleased ; all seemed , but were not all .
That day , as other solemn days , they spent In song and dance about the sacred hill ; Mystical dance , which yonder starry sphere Of planets , and of fixed , in all her wheels Resembles nearest , mazes intricate , Eccentrick , intervolved , yet regular Then most , when most irregular they seem ; And in their motions harmony divine So smooths her charming tones , that God ' s own ear Listens delighted .
Evening now approached , ( For we have also our evening and our morn , We ours for change delectable , not need ;) Forthwith from dance to sweet repast they turn Desirous ; all in circles as they stood , Tables are set , and on a sudden piled With Angels food , and rubied nectar flows In pearl , in diamond , and massy gold , Fruit of delicious vines , the growth of Heaven .
On flowers reposed , and with fresh flowerets crowned , They eat , they drink , and in communion sweet Quaff immortality and joy , secure Of surfeit , where full measure only bounds Excess , before the all - bounteous King , who showered With copious hand , rejoicing in their joy .
Now when ambrosial night with clouds exhaled From that high mount of God , whence light and shade Spring both , the face of brightest Heaven had changed To grateful twilight , ( for night comes not there In darker veil ,) and roseat dews disposed All but the unsleeping eyes of God to rest ; Wide over all the plain , and wider far Than all this globous earth in plain outspread , ( Such are the courts of God ) the angelick throng , Dispersed in bands and files , their camp extend By living streams among the trees of life , Pavilions numberless , and sudden reared , Celestial tabernacles , where they slept Fanned with cool winds ; save those , who , in their course , Melodious hymns about the sovran throne Alternate all night long : but not so waked Satan ; so call him now , his former name Is heard no more in Heaven ; he of the first , If not the first Arch - Angel , great in power , In favour and pre - eminence , yet fraught With envy against the Son of God , that day Honoured by his great Father , and proclaimed Messiah King anointed , could not bear Through pride that sight , and thought himself impaired .
Deep malice thence conceiving and disdain , Soon as midnight brought on the dusky hour Friendliest to sleep and silence , he resolved With all his legions to dislodge , and leave Unworshipt , unobeyed , the throne supreme , Contemptuous ; and his next subordinate Awakening , thus to him in secret spake .
Sleepest thou , Companion dear ?
What sleep can close Thy eye - lids ?
and rememberest what decree Of yesterday , so late hath passed the lips Of Heaven ' s Almighty .
Thou to me thy thoughts Wast wont , I mine to thee was wont to impart ; Both waking we were one ; how then can now Thy sleep dissent ?
New laws thou seest imposed ; New laws from him who reigns , new minds may raise In us who serve , new counsels to debate What doubtful may ensue : More in this place To utter is not safe .
Assemble thou Of all those myriads which we lead the chief ; Tell them , that by command , ere yet dim night Her shadowy cloud withdraws , I am to haste , And all who under me their banners wave , Homeward , with flying march , where we possess The quarters of the north ; there to prepare Fit entertainment to receive our King , The great Messiah , and his new commands , Who speedily through all the hierarchies Intends to pass triumphant , and give laws .
So spake the false Arch - Angel , and infused Bad influence into the unwary breast Of his associate : He together calls , Or several one by one , the regent Powers , Under him Regent ; tells , as he was taught , That the Most High commanding , now ere night , Now ere dim night had disincumbered Heaven , The great hierarchal standard was to move ; Tells the suggested cause , and casts between Ambiguous words and jealousies , to sound Or taint integrity : But all obeyed The wonted signal , and superiour voice Of their great Potentate ; for great indeed His name , and high was his degree in Heaven ; His countenance , as the morning - star that guides The starry flock , allured them , and with lies Drew after him the third part of Heaven ' s host .
Mean while the Eternal eye , whose sight discerns Abstrusest thoughts , from forth his holy mount , And from within the golden lamps that burn Nightly before him , saw without their light Rebellion rising ; saw in whom , how spread Among the sons of morn , what multitudes Were banded to oppose his high decree ; And , smiling , to his only Son thus said .
Son , thou in whom my glory I behold In full resplendence , Heir of all my might , Nearly it now concerns us to be sure Of our Omnipotence , and with what arms We mean to hold what anciently we claim Of deity or empire : Such a foe Is rising , who intends to erect his throne Equal to ours , throughout the spacious north ; Nor so content , hath in his thought to try In battle , what our power is , or our right .
Let us advise , and to this hazard draw With speed what force is left , and all employ In our defence ; lest unawares we lose This our high place , our sanctuary , our hill .
To whom the Son with calm aspect and clear , Lightning divine , ineffable , serene , Made answer .
Mighty Father , thou thy foes Justly hast in derision , and , secure , Laughest at their vain designs and tumults vain , Matter to me of glory , whom their hate Illustrates , when they see all regal power Given me to quell their pride , and in event Know whether I be dextrous to subdue Thy rebels , or be found the worst in Heaven .
So spake the Son ; but Satan , with his Powers , Far was advanced on winged speed ; an host Innumerable as the stars of night , Or stars of morning , dew - drops , which the sun Impearls on every leaf and every flower .
Regions they passed , the mighty regencies Of Seraphim , and Potentates , and Thrones , In their triple degrees ; regions to which All thy dominion , Adam , is no more Than what this garden is to all the earth , And all the sea , from one entire globose Stretched into longitude ; which having passed , At length into the limits of the north They came ; and Satan to his royal seat High on a hill , far blazing , as a mount Raised on a mount , with pyramids and towers From diamond quarries hewn , and rocks of gold ; The palace of great Lucifer , ( so call That structure in the dialect of men Interpreted ,) which not long after , he Affecting all equality with God , In imitation of that mount whereon Messiah was declared in sight of Heaven , The Mountain of the Congregation called ; For thither he assembled all his train , Pretending so commanded to consult About the great reception of their King , Thither to come , and with calumnious art Of counterfeited truth thus held their ears .
Thrones , Dominations , Princedoms , Virtues , Powers ; If these magnifick titles yet remain Not merely titular , since by decree Another now hath to himself engrossed All power , and us eclipsed under the name Of King anointed , for whom all this haste Of midnight - march , and hurried meeting here , This only to consult how we may best , With what may be devised of honours new , Receive him coming to receive from us Knee - tribute yet unpaid , prostration vile !
Too much to one !
but double how endured , To one , and to his image now proclaimed ?
But what if better counsels might erect Our minds , and teach us to cast off this yoke ?
Will ye submit your necks , and choose to bend The supple knee ?
Ye will not , if I trust To know ye right , or if ye know yourselves Natives and sons of Heaven possessed before By none ; and if not equal all , yet free , Equally free ; for orders and degrees Jar not with liberty , but well consist .
Who can in reason then , or right , assume Monarchy over such as live by right His equals , if in power and splendour less , In freedom equal ?
or can introduce Law and edict on us , who without law Err not ?
much less for this to be our Lord , And look for adoration , to the abuse Of those imperial titles , which assert Our being ordained to govern , not to serve .
Thus far his bold discourse without controul Had audience ; when among the Seraphim Abdiel , than whom none with more zeal adored The Deity , and divine commands obeyed , Stood up , and in a flame of zeal severe The current of his fury thus opposed .
O argument blasphemous , false , and proud !
Words which no ear ever to hear in Heaven Expected , least of all from thee , Ingrate , In place thyself so high above thy peers .
Canst thou with impious obloquy condemn The just decree of God , pronounced and sworn , That to his only Son , by right endued With regal scepter , every soul in Heaven Shall bend the knee , and in that honour due Confess him rightful King ?
unjust , thou sayest , Flatly unjust , to bind with laws the free , And equal over equals to let reign , One over all with unsucceeded power .
Shalt thou give law to God ?
shalt thou dispute With him the points of liberty , who made Thee what thou art , and formed the Powers of Heaven Such as he pleased , and circumscribed their being ?
Yet , by experience taught , we know how good , And of our good and of our dignity How provident he is ; how far from thought To make us less , bent rather to exalt Our happy state , under one head more near United .
But to grant it thee unjust , That equal over equals monarch reign : Thyself , though great and glorious , dost thou count , Or all angelick nature joined in one , Equal to him begotten Son ?
by whom , As by his Word , the Mighty Father made All things , even thee ; and all the Spirits of Heaven By him created in their bright degrees , Crowned them with glory , and to their glory named Thrones , Dominations , Princedoms , Virtues , Powers , Essential Powers ; nor by his reign obscured , But more illustrious made ; since he the head One of our number thus reduced becomes ; His laws our laws ; all honour to him done Returns our own .
Cease then this impious rage , And tempt not these ; but hasten to appease The incensed Father , and the incensed Son , While pardon may be found in time besought .
So spake the fervent Angel ; but his zeal None seconded , as out of season judged , Or singular and rash : Whereat rejoiced The Apostate , and , more haughty , thus replied .
That we were formed then sayest thou ?
and the work Of secondary hands , by task transferred From Father to his Son ?
strange point and new !
Doctrine which we would know whence learned : who saw When this creation was ?
rememberest thou Thy making , while the Maker gave thee being ?
We know no time when we were not as now ; Know none before us , self - begot , self - raised By our own quickening power , when fatal course Had circled his full orb , the birth mature Of this our native Heaven , ethereal sons .
Our puissance is our own ; our own right hand Shall teach us highest deeds , by proof to try Who is our equal : Then thou shalt behold Whether by supplication we intend Address , and to begirt the almighty throne Beseeching or besieging .
This report , These tidings carry to the anointed King ; And fly , ere evil intercept thy flight .
He said ; and , as the sound of waters deep , Hoarse murmur echoed to his words applause Through the infinite host ; nor less for that The flaming Seraph fearless , though alone Encompassed round with foes , thus answered bold .
O alienate from God , O Spirit accursed , Forsaken of all good !
I see thy fall Determined , and thy hapless crew involved In this perfidious fraud , contagion spread Both of thy crime and punishment : Henceforth No more be troubled how to quit the yoke Of God ' s Messiah ; those indulgent laws Will not be now vouchsafed ; other decrees Against thee are gone forth without recall ; That golden scepter , which thou didst reject , Is now an iron rod to bruise and break Thy disobedience .
Well thou didst advise ; Yet not for thy advice or threats I fly These wicked tents devoted , lest the wrath Impendent , raging into sudden flame , Distinguish not : For soon expect to feel His thunder on thy head , devouring fire .
Then who created thee lamenting learn , When who can uncreate thee thou shalt know .
So spake the Seraph Abdiel , faithful found Among the faithless , faithful only he ; Among innumerable false , unmoved , Unshaken , unseduced , unterrified , His loyalty he kept , his love , his zeal ; Nor number , nor example , with him wrought To swerve from truth , or change his constant mind , Though single .
From amidst them forth he passed , Long way through hostile scorn , which he sustained Superiour , nor of violence feared aught ; And , with retorted scorn , his back he turned On those proud towers to swift destruction doomed .
Book VI
All night the dreadless Angel , unpursued , Through Heaven ' s wide champain held his way ; till Morn , Waked by the circling Hours , with rosy hand Unbarred the gates of light .
There is a cave Within the mount of God , fast by his throne , Where light and darkness in perpetual round Lodge and dislodge by turns , which makes through Heaven Grateful vicissitude , like day and night ; Light issues forth , and at the other door Obsequious darkness enters , till her hour To veil the Heaven , though darkness there might well Seem twilight here : And now went forth the Morn Such as in highest Heaven arrayed in gold Empyreal ; from before her vanished Night , Shot through with orient beams ; when all the plain Covered with thick embattled squadrons bright , Chariots , and flaming arms , and fiery steeds , Reflecting blaze on blaze , first met his view : War he perceived , war in procinct ; and found Already known what he for news had thought To have reported : Gladly then he mixed Among those friendly Powers , who him received With joy and acclamations loud , that one , That of so many myriads fallen , yet one Returned not lost .
On to the sacred hill They led him high applauded , and present Before the seat supreme ; from whence a voice , From midst a golden cloud , thus mild was heard .
Servant of God .
Well done ; well hast thou fought The better fight , who single hast maintained Against revolted multitudes the cause Of truth , in word mightier than they in arms ; And for the testimony of truth hast borne Universal reproach , far worse to bear Than violence ; for this was all thy care To stand approved in sight of God , though worlds Judged thee perverse : The easier conquest now Remains thee , aided by this host of friends , Back on thy foes more glorious to return , Than scorned thou didst depart ; and to subdue By force , who reason for their law refuse , Right reason for their law , and for their King Messiah , who by right of merit reigns .
Go , Michael , of celestial armies prince , And thou , in military prowess next , Gabriel , lead forth to battle these my sons Invincible ; lead forth my armed Saints , By thousands and by millions , ranged for fight , Equal in number to that Godless crew Rebellious : Them with fire and hostile arms Fearless assault ; and , to the brow of Heaven Pursuing , drive them out from God and bliss , Into their place of punishment , the gulf Of Tartarus , which ready opens wide His fiery Chaos to receive their fall .
So spake the Sovran Voice , and clouds began To darken all the hill , and smoke to roll In dusky wreaths , reluctant flames , the sign Of wrath awaked ; nor with less dread the loud Ethereal trumpet from on high ' gan blow : At which command the Powers militant , That stood for Heaven , in mighty quadrate joined Of union irresistible , moved on In silence their bright legions , to the sound Of instrumental harmony , that breathed Heroick ardour to adventurous deeds Under their God - like leaders , in the cause Of God and his Messiah .
On they move Indissolubly firm ; nor obvious hill , Nor straitening vale , nor wood , nor stream , divides Their perfect ranks ; for high above the ground Their march was , and the passive air upbore Their nimble tread ; as when the total kind Of birds , in orderly array on wing , Came summoned over Eden to receive Their names of thee ; so over many a tract Of Heaven they marched , and many a province wide , Tenfold the length of this terrene : At last , Far in the horizon to the north appeared From skirt to skirt a fiery region , stretched In battailous aspect , and nearer view Bristled with upright beams innumerable Of rigid spears , and helmets thronged , and shields Various , with boastful argument portrayed , The banded Powers of Satan hasting on With furious expedition ; for they weened That self - same day , by fight or by surprise , To win the mount of God , and on his throne To set the Envier of his state , the proud Aspirer ; but their thoughts proved fond and vain In the mid way : Though strange to us it seemed At first , that Angel should with Angel war , And in fierce hosting meet , who wont to meet So oft in festivals of joy and love Unanimous , as sons of one great Sire , Hymning the Eternal Father : But the shout Of battle now began , and rushing sound Of onset ended soon each milder thought .
High in the midst , exalted as a God , The Apostate in his sun - bright chariot sat , Idol of majesty divine , enclosed With flaming Cherubim , and golden shields ; Then lighted from his gorgeous throne , for now " twixt host and host but narrow space was left , A dreadful interval , and front to front Presented stood in terrible array Of hideous length : Before the cloudy van , On the rough edge of battle ere it joined , Satan , with vast and haughty strides advanced , Came towering , armed in adamant and gold ; Abdiel that sight endured not , where he stood Among the mightiest , bent on highest deeds , And thus his own undaunted heart explores .
O Heaven !
that such resemblance of the Highest Should yet remain , where faith and realty Remain not : Wherefore should not strength and might There fail where virtue fails , or weakest prove Where boldest , though to fight unconquerable ?
His puissance , trusting in the Almighty ' s aid , I mean to try , whose reason I have tried Unsound and false ; nor is it aught but just , That he , who in debate of truth hath won , Should win in arms , in both disputes alike Victor ; though brutish that contest and foul , When reason hath to deal with force , yet so Most reason is that reason overcome .
So pondering , and from his armed peers Forth stepping opposite , half - way he met His daring foe , at this prevention more Incensed , and thus securely him defied .
Proud , art thou met ?
thy hope was to have reached The highth of thy aspiring unopposed , The throne of God unguarded , and his side Abandoned , at the terrour of thy power Or potent tongue : Fool ! not to think how vain Against the Omnipotent to rise in arms ; Who out of smallest things could , without end , Have raised incessant armies to defeat Thy folly ; or with solitary hand Reaching beyond all limit , at one blow , Unaided , could have finished thee , and whelmed Thy legions under darkness : But thou seest All are not of thy train ; there be , who faith Prefer , and piety to God , though then To thee not visible , when I alone Seemed in thy world erroneous to dissent From all : My sect thou seest ; now learn too late How few sometimes may know , when thousands err .
Whom the grand foe , with scornful eye askance , Thus answered .
Ill for thee , but in wished hour Of my revenge , first sought for , thou returnest From flight , seditious Angel !
to receive Thy merited reward , the first assay Of this right hand provoked , since first that tongue , Inspired with contradiction , durst oppose A third part of the Gods , in synod met Their deities to assert ; who , while they feel Vigour divine within them , can allow Omnipotence to none .
But well thou comest Before thy fellows , ambitious to win From me some plume , that thy success may show Destruction to the rest : This pause between , ( Unanswered lest thou boast ) to let thee know , At first I thought that Liberty and Heaven To heavenly souls had been all one ; but now I see that most through sloth had rather serve , Ministring Spirits , trained up in feast and song !
Such hast thou armed , the minstrelsy of Heaven , Servility with freedom to contend , As both their deeds compared this day shall prove .
To whom in brief thus Abdiel stern replied .
Apostate !
still thou errest , nor end wilt find Of erring , from the path of truth remote : Unjustly thou depravest it with the name Of servitude , to serve whom God ordains , Or Nature : God and Nature bid the same , When he who rules is worthiest , and excels Them whom he governs .
This is servitude , To serve the unwise , or him who hath rebelled Against his worthier , as thine now serve thee , Thyself not free , but to thyself enthralled ; Yet lewdly darest our ministring upbraid .
Reign thou in Hell , thy kingdom ; let me serve In Heaven God ever blest , and his divine Behests obey , worthiest to be obeyed ; Yet chains in Hell , not realms , expect : Mean while From me returned , as erst thou saidst , from flight , This greeting on thy impious crest receive .
So saying , a noble stroke he lifted high , Which hung not , but so swift with tempest fell On the proud crest of Satan , that no sight , Nor motion of swift thought , less could his shield , Such ruin intercept : Ten paces huge He back recoiled ; the tenth on bended knee His massy spear upstaid ; as if on earth Winds under ground , or waters forcing way , Sidelong had pushed a mountain from his seat , Half sunk with all his pines .
Amazement seised The rebel Thrones , but greater rage , to see Thus foiled their mightiest ; ours joy filled , and shout , Presage of victory , and fierce desire Of battle : Whereat Michael bid sound The Arch - Angel trumpet ; through the vast of Heaven It sounded , and the faithful armies rung Hosanna to the Highest : Nor stood at gaze The adverse legions , nor less hideous joined The horrid shock .
Now storming fury rose , And clamour such as heard in Heaven till now Was never ; arms on armour clashing brayed Horrible discord , and the madding wheels Of brazen chariots raged ; dire was the noise Of conflict ; over head the dismal hiss Of fiery darts in flaming vollies flew , And flying vaulted either host with fire .
So under fiery cope together rushed Both battles main , with ruinous assault And inextinguishable rage .
All Heaven Resounded ; and had Earth been then , all Earth Had to her center shook .
What wonder ?
when Millions of fierce encountering Angels fought On either side , the least of whom could wield These elements , and arm him with the force Of all their regions : How much more of power Army against army numberless to raise Dreadful combustion warring , and disturb , Though not destroy , their happy native seat ; Had not the Eternal King Omnipotent , From his strong hold of Heaven , high over - ruled And limited their might ; though numbered such As each divided legion might have seemed A numerous host ; in strength each armed hand A legion ; led in fight , yet leader seemed Each warriour single as in chief , expert When to advance , or stand , or turn the sway Of battle , open when , and when to close The ridges of grim war : No thought of flight , None of retreat , no unbecoming deed That argued fear ; each on himself relied , As only in his arm the moment lay Of victory : Deeds of eternal fame Were done , but infinite ; for wide was spread That war and various ; sometimes on firm ground A standing fight , then , soaring on main wing , Tormented all the air ; all air seemed then Conflicting fire .
Long time in even scale The battle hung ; till Satan , who that day Prodigious power had shown , and met in arms No equal , ranging through the dire attack Of fighting Seraphim confused , at length Saw where the sword of Michael smote , and felled Squadrons at once ; with huge two - handed sway Brandished aloft , the horrid edge came down Wide - wasting ; such destruction to withstand He hasted , and opposed the rocky orb Of tenfold adamant , his ample shield , A vast circumference .
At his approach The great Arch - Angel from his warlike toil Surceased , and glad , as hoping here to end Intestine war in Heaven , the arch - foe subdued Or captive dragged in chains , with hostile frown And visage all inflamed first thus began .
Author of evil , unknown till thy revolt , Unnamed in Heaven , now plenteous as thou seest These acts of hateful strife , hateful to all , Though heaviest by just measure on thyself , And thy adherents : How hast thou disturbed Heaven ' s blessed peace , and into nature brought Misery , uncreated till the crime Of thy rebellion !
how hast thou instilled Thy malice into thousands , once upright And faithful , now proved false !
But think not here To trouble holy rest ; Heaven casts thee out From all her confines .
Heaven , the seat of bliss , Brooks not the works of violence and war .
Hence then , and evil go with thee along , Thy offspring , to the place of evil , Hell ; Thou and thy wicked crew !
there mingle broils , Ere this avenging sword begin thy doom , Or some more sudden vengeance , winged from God , Precipitate thee with augmented pain .
So spake the Prince of Angels ; to whom thus The Adversary .
Nor think thou with wind Of aery threats to awe whom yet with deeds Thou canst not .
Hast thou turned the least of these To flight , or if to fall , but that they rise Unvanquished , easier to transact with me That thou shouldst hope , imperious , and with threats To chase me hence ?
err not , that so shall end The strife which thou callest evil , but we style The strife of glory ; which we mean to win , Or turn this Heaven itself into the Hell Thou fablest ; here however to dwell free , If not to reign : Mean while thy utmost force , And join him named Almighty to thy aid , I fly not , but have sought thee far and nigh .
They ended parle , and both addressed for fight Unspeakable ; for who , though with the tongue Of Angels , can relate , or to what things Liken on earth conspicuous , that may lift Human imagination to such highth Of Godlike power ?
for likest Gods they seemed , Stood they or moved , in stature , motion , arms , Fit to decide the empire of great Heaven .
Now waved their fiery swords , and in the air Made horrid circles ; two broad suns their shields Blazed opposite , while Expectation stood In horrour : From each hand with speed retired , Where erst was thickest fight , the angelick throng , And left large field , unsafe within the wind Of such commotion ; such as , to set forth Great things by small , if , nature ' s concord broke , Among the constellations war were sprung , Two planets , rushing from aspect malign Of fiercest opposition , in mid sky Should combat , and their jarring spheres confound .
Together both with next to almighty arm Up - lifted imminent , one stroke they aimed That might determine , and not need repeat , As not of power at once ; nor odds appeared In might or swift prevention : But the sword Of Michael from the armoury of God Was given him tempered so , that neither keen Nor solid might resist that edge : it met The sword of Satan , with steep force to smite Descending , and in half cut sheer ; nor staid , But with swift wheel reverse , deep entering , shared All his right side : Then Satan first knew pain , And writhed him to and fro convolved ; so sore The griding sword with discontinuous wound Passed through him : But the ethereal substance closed , Not long divisible ; and from the gash A stream of necturous humour issuing flowed Sanguine , such as celestial Spirits may bleed , And all his armour stained , ere while so bright .
Forthwith on all sides to his aid was run By Angels many and strong , who interposed Defence , while others bore him on their shields Back to his chariot , where it stood retired From off the files of war : There they him laid Gnashing for anguish , and despite , and shame , To find himself not matchless , and his pride Humbled by such rebuke , so far beneath His confidence to equal God in power .
Yet soon he healed ; for Spirits that live throughout Vital in every part , not as frail man In entrails , heart of head , liver or reins , Cannot but by annihilating die ; Nor in their liquid texture mortal wound Receive , no more than can the fluid air : All heart they live , all head , all eye , all ear , All intellect , all sense ; and , as they please , They limb themselves , and colour , shape , or size Assume , as ? kikes them best , condense or rare .
Mean while in other parts like deeds deserved Memorial , where the might of Gabriel fought , And with fierce ensigns pierced the deep array Of Moloch , furious king ; who him defied , And at his chariot - wheels to drag him bound Threatened , nor from the Holy One of Heaven Refrained his tongue blasphemous ; but anon Down cloven to the waist , with shattered arms And uncouth pain fled bellowing .
On each wing Uriel , and Raphael , his vaunting foe , Though huge , and in a rock of diamond armed , Vanquished Adramelech , and Asmadai , Two potent Thrones , that to be less than Gods Disdained , but meaner thoughts learned in their flight , Mangled with ghastly wounds through plate and mail .
Nor stood unmindful Abdiel to annoy The atheist crew , but with redoubled blow Ariel , and Arioch , and the violence Of Ramiel scorched and blasted , overthrew .
I might relate of thousands , and their names Eternize here on earth ; but those elect Angels , contented with their fame in Heaven , Seek not the praise of men : The other sort , In might though wonderous and in acts of war , Nor of renown less eager , yet by doom Cancelled from Heaven and sacred memory , Nameless in dark oblivion let them dwell .
For strength from truth divided , and from just , Illaudable , nought merits but dispraise And ignominy ; yet to glory aspires Vain - glorious , and through infamy seeks fame : Therefore eternal silence be their doom .
And now , their mightiest quelled , the battle swerved , With many an inroad gored ; deformed rout Entered , and foul disorder ; all the ground With shivered armour strown , and on a heap Chariot and charioteer lay overturned , And fiery - foaming steeds ; what stood , recoiled O ' er - wearied , through the faint Satanick host Defensive scarce , or with pale fear surprised , Then first with fear surprised , and sense of pain , Fled ignominious , to such evil brought By sin of disobedience ; till that hour Not liable to fear , or flight , or pain .
Far otherwise the inviolable Saints , In cubick phalanx firm , advanced entire , Invulnerable , impenetrably armed ; Such high advantages their innocence Gave them above their foes ; not to have sinned , Not to have disobeyed ; in fight they stood Unwearied , unobnoxious to be pained By wound , though from their place by violence moved , Now Night her course began , and , over Heaven Inducing darkness , grateful truce imposed , And silence on the odious din of war : Under her cloudy covert both retired , Victor and vanquished : On the foughten field Michael and his Angels prevalent Encamping , placed in guard their watches round , Cherubick waving fires : On the other part , Satan with his rebellious disappeared , Far in the dark dislodged ; and , void of rest , His potentates to council called by night ; And in the midst thus undismayed began .
O now in danger tried , now known in arms Not to be overpowered , Companions dear , Found worthy not of liberty alone , Too mean pretence !
but what we more affect , Honour , dominion , glory , and renown ; Who have sustained one day in doubtful fight , ( And if one day , why not eternal days ?)
What Heaven ' s Lord had powerfullest to send Against us from about his throne , and judged Sufficient to subdue us to his will , But proves not so : Then fallible , it seems , Of future we may deem him , though till now Omniscient thought .
True is , less firmly armed , Some disadvantage we endured and pain , Till now not known , but , known , as soon contemned ; Since now we find this our empyreal form Incapable of mortal injury , Imperishable , and , though pierced with wound , Soon closing , and by native vigour healed .
Of evil then so small as easy think The remedy ; perhaps more valid arms , Weapons more violent , when next we meet , May serve to better us , and worse our foes , Or equal what between us made the odds , In nature none : If other hidden cause Left them superiour , while we can preserve Unhurt our minds , and understanding sound , Due search and consultation will disclose .
He sat ; and in the assembly next upstood Nisroch , of Principalities the prime ; As one he stood escaped from cruel fight , Sore toiled , his riven arms to havock hewn , And cloudy in aspect thus answering spake .
Deliverer from new Lords , leader to free Enjoyment of our right as Gods ; yet hard For Gods , and too unequal work we find , Against unequal arms to fight in pain , Against unpained , impassive ; from which evil Ruin must needs ensue ; for what avails Valour or strength , though matchless , quelled with pain Which all subdues , and makes remiss the hands Of mightiest ?
Sense of pleasure we may well Spare out of life perhaps , and not repine , But live content , which is the calmest life : But pain is perfect misery , the worst Of evils , and , excessive , overturns All patience .
He , who therefore can invent With what more forcible we may offend Our yet unwounded enemies , or arm Ourselves with like defence , to me deserves No less than for deliverance what we owe .
Whereto with look composed Satan replied .
Not uninvented that , which thou aright Believest so main to our success , I bring .
Which of us who beholds the bright surface Of this ethereous mould whereon we stand , This continent of spacious Heaven , adorned With plant , fruit , flower ambrosial , gems , and gold ; Whose eye so superficially surveys These things , as not to mind from whence they grow Deep under ground , materials dark and crude , Of spiritous and fiery spume , till touched With Heaven ' s ray , and tempered , they shoot forth So beauteous , opening to the ambient light ?
These in their dark nativity the deep Shall yield us , pregnant with infernal flame ; Which , into hollow engines , long and round , Thick rammed , at the other bore with touch of fire Dilated and infuriate , shall send forth From far , with thundering noise , among our foes Such implements of mischief , as shall dash To pieces , and o ' erwhelm whatever stands Adverse , that they shall fear we have disarmed The Thunderer of his only dreaded bolt .
Nor long shall be our labour ; yet ere dawn , Effect shall end our wish .
Mean while revive ; Abandon fear ; to strength and counsel joined Think nothing hard , much less to be despaired .
He ended , and his words their drooping cheer Enlightened , and their languished hope revived .
The invention all admired , and each , how he To be the inventer missed ; so easy it seemed Once found , which yet unfound most would have thought Impossible : Yet , haply , of thy race In future days , if malice should abound , Some one intent on mischief , or inspired With devilish machination , might devise Like instrument to plague the sons of men For sin , on war and mutual slaughter bent .
Forthwith from council to the work they flew ; None arguing stood ; innumerable hands Were ready ; in a moment up they turned Wide the celestial soil , and saw beneath The originals of nature in their crude Conception ; sulphurous and nitrous foam They found , they mingled , and , with subtle art , Concocted and adusted they reduced To blackest grain , and into store conveyed : Part hidden veins digged up ( nor hath this earth Entrails unlike ) of mineral and stone , Whereof to found their engines and their balls Of missive ruin ; part incentive reed Provide , pernicious with one touch to fire .
So all ere day - spring , under conscious night , Secret they finished , and in order set , With silent circumspection , unespied .
Now when fair morn orient in Heaven appeared , Up rose the victor - Angels , and to arms The matin trumpet sung : In arms they stood Of golden panoply , refulgent host , Soon banded ; others from the dawning hills Look round , and scouts each coast light - armed scour , Each quarter to descry the distant foe , Where lodged , or whither fled , or if for fight , In motion or in halt : Him soon they met Under spread ensigns moving nigh , in slow But firm battalion ; back with speediest sail Zophiel , of Cherubim the swiftest wing , Came flying , and in mid air aloud thus cried .
Arm , Warriours , arm for fight ; the foe at hand , Whom fled we thought , will save us long pursuit This day ; fear not his flight ; so thick a cloud He comes , and settled in his face I see Sad resolution , and secure : Let each His adamantine coat gird well , and each Fit well his helm , gripe fast his orbed shield , Borne even or high ; for this day will pour down , If I conjecture aught , no drizzling shower , But rattling storm of arrows barbed with fire .
So warned he them , aware themselves , and soon In order , quit of all impediment ; Instant without disturb they took alarm , And onward moved embattled : When behold !
Not distant far with heavy pace the foe Approaching gross and huge , in hollow cube Training his devilish enginery , impaled On every side with shadowing squadrons deep , To hide the fraud .
At interview both stood A while ; but suddenly at head appeared Satan , and thus was heard commanding loud .
Vanguard , to right and left the front unfold ; That all may see who hate us , how we seek Peace and composure , and with open breast Stand ready to receive them , if they like Our overture ; and turn not back perverse : But that I doubt ; however witness , Heaven !
Heaven , witness thou anon !
while we discharge Freely our part : ye , who appointed stand Do as you have in charge , and briefly touch What we propound , and loud that all may hear !
So scoffing in ambiguous words , he scarce Had ended ; when to right and left the front Divided , and to either flank retired : Which to our eyes discovered , new and strange , A triple mounted row of pillars laid On wheels ( for like to pillars most they seemed , Or hollowed bodies made of oak or fir , With branches lopt , in wood or mountain felled ,) Brass , iron , stony mould , had not their mouths With hideous orifice gaped on us wide , Portending hollow truce : At each behind A Seraph stood , and in his hand a reed Stood waving tipt with fire ; while we , suspense , Collected stood within our thoughts amused , Not long ; for sudden all at once their reeds Put forth , and to a narrow vent applied With nicest touch .
Immediate in a flame , But soon obscured with smoke , all Heaven appeared , From those deep - throated engines belched , whose roar Embowelled with outrageous noise the air , And all her entrails tore , disgorging foul Their devilish glut , chained thunderbolts and hail Of iron globes ; which , on the victor host Levelled , with such impetuous fury smote , That , whom they hit , none on their feet might stand , Though standing else as rocks , but down they fell By thousands , Angel on Arch - Angel rolled ; The sooner for their arms ; unarmed , they might Have easily , as Spirits , evaded swift By quick contraction or remove ; but now Foul dissipation followed , and forced rout ; Nor served it to relax their serried files .
What should they do ?
if on they rushed , repulse Repeated , and indecent overthrow Doubled , would render them yet more despised , And to their foes a laughter ; for in view Stood ranked of Seraphim another row , In posture to displode their second tire Of thunder : Back defeated to return They worse abhorred .
Satan beheld their plight , And to his mates thus in derision called .
O Friends !
why come not on these victors proud Ere while they fierce were coming ; and when we , To entertain them fair with open front And breast , ( what could we more ?)
propounded terms Of composition , straight they changed their minds , Flew off , and into strange vagaries fell , As they would dance ; yet for a dance they seemed Somewhat extravagant and wild ; perhaps For joy of offered peace : But I suppose , If our proposals once again were heard , We should compel them to a quick result .
To whom thus Belial , in like gamesome mood .
Leader !
the terms we sent were terms of weight , Of hard contents , and full of force urged home ; Such as we might perceive amused them all , And stumbled many : Who receives them right , Had need from head to foot well understand ; Not understood , this gift they have besides , They show us when our foes walk not upright .
So they among themselves in pleasant vein Stood scoffing , hightened in their thoughts beyond All doubt of victory : Eternal Might To match with their inventions they presumed So easy , and of his thunder made a scorn , And all his host derided , while they stood A while in trouble : But they stood not long ; Rage prompted them at length , and found them arms Against such hellish mischief fit to oppose .
Forthwith ( behold the excellence , the power , Which God hath in his mighty Angels placed !)
Their arms away they threw , and to the hills ( For Earth hath this variety from Heaven Of pleasure situate in hill and dale ,) Light as the lightning glimpse they ran , they flew ; From their foundations loosening to and fro , They plucked the seated hills , with all their load , Rocks , waters , woods , and by the shaggy tops Up - lifting bore them in their hands : Amaze , Be sure , and terrour , seized the rebel host , When coming towards them so dread they saw The bottom of the mountains upward turned ; Till on those cursed engines ' triple - row They saw them whelmed , and all their confidence Under the weight of mountains buried deep ; Themselves invaded next , and on their heads Main promontories flung , which in the air Came shadowing , and oppressed whole legions armed ; Their armour helped their harm , crushed in and bruised Into their substance pent , which wrought them pain Implacable , and many a dolorous groan ; Long struggling underneath , ere they could wind Out of such prison , though Spirits of purest light , Purest at first , now gross by sinning grown .
The rest , in imitation , to like arms Betook them , and the neighbouring hills uptore : So hills amid the air encountered hills , Hurled to and fro with jaculation dire ; That under ground they fought in dismal shade ; Infernal noise !
war seemed a civil game To this uproar ; horrid confusion heaped Upon confusion rose : And now all Heaven Had gone to wrack , with ruin overspread ; Had not the Almighty Father , where he sits Shrined in his sanctuary of Heaven secure , Consulting on the sum of things , foreseen This tumult , and permitted all , advised : That his great purpose he might so fulfil , To honour his anointed Son avenged Upon his enemies , and to declare All power on him transferred : Whence to his Son , The Assessour of his throne , he thus began .
Effulgence of my glory , Son beloved , Son , in whose face invisible is beheld Visibly , what by Deity I am ; And in whose hand what by decree I do , Second Omnipotence !
two days are past , Two days , as we compute the days of Heaven , Since Michael and his Powers went forth to tame These disobedient : Sore hath been their fight , As likeliest was , when two such foes met armed ; For to themselves I left them ; and thou knowest , Equal in their creation they were formed , Save what sin hath impaired ; which yet hath wrought Insensibly , for I suspend their doom ; Whence in perpetual fight they needs must last Endless , and no solution will be found : War wearied hath performed what war can do , And to disordered rage let loose the reins With mountains , as with weapons , armed ; which makes Wild work in Heaven , and dangerous to the main .
Two days are therefore past , the third is thine ; For thee I have ordained it ; and thus far Have suffered , that the glory may be thine Of ending this great war , since none but Thou Can end it .
Into thee such virtue and grace Immense I have transfused , that all may know In Heaven and Hell thy power above compare ; And , this perverse commotion governed thus , To manifest thee worthiest to be Heir Of all things ; to be Heir , and to be King By sacred unction , thy deserved right .
Go then , Thou Mightiest , in thy Father ' s might ; Ascend my chariot , guide the rapid wheels That shake Heaven ' s basis , bring forth all my war , My bow and thunder , my almighty arms Gird on , and sword upon thy puissant thigh ; Pursue these sons of darkness , drive them out From all Heaven ' s bounds into the utter deep : There let them learn , as likes them , to despise God , and Messiah his anointed King .
He said , and on his Son with rays direct Shone full ; he all his Father full expressed Ineffably into his face received ; And thus the Filial Godhead answering spake .
O Father , O Supreme of heavenly Thrones , First , Highest , Holiest , Best ; thou always seek ' st To glorify thy Son , I always thee , As is most just : This I my glory account , My exaltation , and my whole delight , That thou , in me well pleased , declarest thy will Fulfilled , which to fulfil is all my bliss .
Scepter and power , thy giving , I assume , And gladlier shall resign , when in the end Thou shalt be all in all , and I in thee For ever ; and in me all whom thou lovest : But whom thou hatest , I hate , and can put on Thy terrours , as I put thy mildness on , Image of thee in all things ; and shall soon , Armed with thy might , rid Heaven of these rebelled ; To their prepared ill mansion driven down , To chains of darkness , and the undying worm ; That from thy just obedience could revolt , Whom to obey is happiness entire .
Then shall thy Saints unmixed , and from the impure Far separate , circling thy holy mount , Unfeigned Halleluiahs to thee sing , Hymns of high praise , and I among them Chief .
So said , he , o ' er his scepter bowing , rose From the right hand of Glory where he sat ; And the third sacred morn began to shine , Dawning through Heaven .
Forth rushed with whirlwind sound The chariot of Paternal Deity , Flashing thick flames , wheel within wheel undrawn , Itself instinct with Spirit , but convoyed By four Cherubick shapes ; four faces each Had wonderous ; as with stars , their bodies all And wings were set with eyes ; with eyes the wheels Of beryl , and careering fires between ; Over their heads a crystal firmament , Whereon a sapphire throne , inlaid with pure Amber , and colours of the showery arch .
He , in celestial panoply all armed Of radiant Urim , work divinely wrought , Ascended ; at his right hand Victory Sat eagle - winged ; beside him hung his bow And quiver with three - bolted thunder stored ; And from about him fierce effusion rolled Of smoke , and bickering flame , and sparkles dire : Attended with ten thousand thousand Saints , He onward came ; far off his coming shone ; And twenty thousand ( I their number heard ) Chariots of God , half on each hand , were seen ; He on the wings of Cherub rode sublime On the crystalline sky , in sapphire throned , Illustrious far and wide ; but by his own First seen : Them unexpected joy surprised , When the great ensign of Messiah blazed Aloft by Angels borne , his sign in Heaven ; Under whose conduct Michael soon reduced His army , circumfused on either wing , Under their Head imbodied all in one .
Before him Power Divine his way prepared ; At his command the uprooted hills retired Each to his place ; they heard his voice , and went Obsequious ; Heaven his wonted face renewed , And with fresh flowerets hill and valley smiled .
This saw his hapless foes , but stood obdured , And to rebellious fight rallied their Powers , Insensate , hope conceiving from despair .
In heavenly Spirits could such perverseness dwell ?
But to convince the proud what signs avail , Or wonders move the obdurate to relent ?
They , hardened more by what might most reclaim , Grieving to see his glory , at the sight Took envy ; and , aspiring to his highth , Stood re - embattled fierce , by force or fraud Weening to prosper , and at length prevail Against God and Messiah , or to fall In universal ruin last ; and now To final battle drew , disdaining flight , Or faint retreat ; when the great Son of God To all his host on either hand thus spake .
Stand still in bright array , ye Saints ; here stand , Ye Angels armed ; this day from battle rest : Faithful hath been your warfare , and of God Accepted , fearless in his righteous cause ; And as ye have received , so have ye done , Invincibly : But of this cursed crew The punishment to other hand belongs ; Vengeance is his , or whose he sole appoints : Number to this day ' s work is not ordained , Nor multitude ; stand only , and behold God ' s indignation on these godless poured By me ; not you , but me , they have despised , Yet envied ; against me is all their rage , Because the Father , to whom in Heaven s ' preme Kingdom , and power , and glory appertains , Hath honoured me , according to his will .
Therefore to me their doom he hath assigned ; That they may have their wish , to try with me In battle which the stronger proves ; they all , Or I alone against them ; since by strength They measure all , of other excellence Not emulous , nor care who them excels ; Nor other strife with them do I vouchsafe .
So spake the Son , and into terrour changed His countenance too severe to be beheld , And full of wrath bent on his enemies .
At once the Four spread out their starry wings With dreadful shade contiguous , and the orbs Of his fierce chariot rolled , as with the sound Of torrent floods , or of a numerous host .
He on his impious foes right onward drove , Gloomy as night ; under his burning wheels The stedfast empyrean shook throughout , All but the throne itself of God .
Full soon Among them he arrived ; in his right hand Grasping ten thousand thunders , which he sent Before him , such as in their souls infixed Plagues : They , astonished , all resistance lost , All courage ; down their idle weapons dropt : O ' er shields , and helms , and helmed heads he rode Of Thrones and mighty Seraphim prostrate , That wished the mountains now might be again Thrown on them , as a shelter from his ire .
Nor less on either side tempestuous fell His arrows , from the fourfold - visaged Four Distinct with eyes , and from the living wheels Distinct alike with multitude of eyes ; One Spirit in them ruled ; and every eye Glared lightning , and shot forth pernicious fire Among the accursed , that withered all their strength , And of their wonted vigour left them drained , Exhausted , spiritless , afflicted , fallen .
Yet half his strength he put not forth , but checked His thunder in mid volley ; for he meant Not to destroy , but root them out of Heaven : The overthrown he raised , and as a herd Of goats or timorous flock together thronged Drove them before him thunder - struck , pursued With terrours , and with furies , to the bounds And crystal wall of Heaven ; which , opening wide , Rolled inward , and a spacious gap disclosed Into the wasteful deep : The monstrous sight Struck them with horrour backward , but far worse Urged them behind : Headlong themselves they threw Down from the verge of Heaven ; eternal wrath Burnt after them to the bottomless pit .
Hell heard the unsufferable noise , Hell saw Heaven ruining from Heaven , and would have fled Affrighted ; but strict Fate had cast too deep Her dark foundations , and too fast had bound .
Nine days they fell : Confounded Chaos roared , And felt tenfold confusion in their fall Through his wild anarchy , so huge a rout Incumbered him with ruin : Hell at last Yawning received them whole , and on them closed ; Hell , their fit habitation , fraught with fire Unquenchable , the house of woe and pain .
Disburdened Heaven rejoiced , and soon repaired Her mural breach , returning whence it rolled .
Sole victor , from the expulsion of his foes , Messiah his triumphal chariot turned : To meet him all his Saints , who silent stood Eye - witnesses of his almighty acts , With jubilee advanced ; and , as they went , Shaded with branching palm , each Order bright , Sung triumph , and him sung victorious King , Son , Heir , and Lord , to him dominion given , Worthiest to reign : He , celebrated , rode Triumphant through mid Heaven , into the courts And temple of his Mighty Father throned On high ; who into glory him received , Where now he sits at the right hand of bliss .
Thus , measuring things in Heaven by things on Earth , At thy request , and that thou mayest beware By what is past , to thee I have revealed What might have else to human race been hid ; The discord which befel , and war in Heaven Among the angelick Powers , and the deep fall Of those too high aspiring , who rebelled With Satan ; he who envies now thy state , Who now is plotting how he may seduce Thee also from obedience , that , with him Bereaved of happiness , thou mayest partake His punishment , eternal misery ; Which would be all his solace and revenge , As a despite done against the Most High , Thee once to gain companion of his woe .
But listen not to his temptations , warn Thy weaker ; let it profit thee to have heard , By terrible example , the reward Of disobedience ; firm they might have stood , Yet fell ; remember , and fear to transgress .
Book VII
Descend from Heaven , Urania , by that name If rightly thou art called , whose voice divine Following , above the Olympian hill I soar , Above the flight of Pegasean wing !
The meaning , not the name , I call : for thou Nor of the Muses nine , nor on the top Of old Olympus dwellest ; but , heavenly - born , Before the hills appeared , or fountain flowed , Thou with eternal Wisdom didst converse , Wisdom thy sister , and with her didst play In presence of the Almighty Father , pleased With thy celestial song .
Up led by thee Into the Heaven of Heavens I have presumed , An earthly guest , and drawn empyreal air , Thy tempering : with like safety guided down Return me to my native element : Lest from this flying steed unreined , ( as once Bellerophon , though from a lower clime ,) Dismounted , on the Aleian field I fall , Erroneous there to wander , and forlorn .
Half yet remains unsung , but narrower bound Within the visible diurnal sphere ; Standing on earth , not rapt above the pole , More safe I sing with mortal voice , unchanged To hoarse or mute , though fallen on evil days , On evil days though fallen , and evil tongues ; In darkness , and with dangers compassed round , And solitude ; yet not alone , while thou Visitest my slumbers nightly , or when morn Purples the east : still govern thou my song , Urania , and fit audience find , though few .
But drive far off the barbarous dissonance Of Bacchus and his revellers , the race Of that wild rout that tore the Thracian bard In Rhodope , where woods and rocks had ears To rapture , till the savage clamour drowned Both harp and voice ; nor could the Muse defend Her son .
So fail not thou , who thee implores : For thou art heavenly , she an empty dream .
Say , Goddess , what ensued when Raphael , The affable Arch - Angel , had forewarned Adam , by dire example , to beware Apostasy , by what befel in Heaven To those apostates ; lest the like befall In Paradise to Adam or his race , Charged not to touch the interdicted tree , If they transgress , and slight that sole command , So easily obeyed amid the choice Of all tastes else to please their appetite , Though wandering .
He , with his consorted Eve , The story heard attentive , and was filled With admiration and deep muse , to hear Of things so high and strange ; things , to their thought So unimaginable , as hate in Heaven , And war so near the peace of God in bliss , With such confusion : but the evil , soon Driven back , redounded as a flood on those From whom it sprung ; impossible to mix With blessedness .
Whence Adam soon repealed The doubts that in his heart arose : and now Led on , yet sinless , with desire to know What nearer might concern him , how this world Of Heaven and Earth conspicuous first began ; When , and whereof created ; for what cause ; What within Eden , or without , was done Before his memory ; as one whose drouth Yet scarce allayed still eyes the current stream , Whose liquid murmur heard new thirst excites , Proceeded thus to ask his heavenly guest .
Great things , and full of wonder in our ears , Far differing from this world , thou hast revealed , Divine interpreter !
by favour sent Down from the empyrean , to forewarn Us timely of what might else have been our loss , Unknown , which human knowledge could not reach ; For which to the infinitely Good we owe Immortal thanks , and his admonishment Receive , with solemn purpose to observe Immutably his sovran will , the end Of what we are .
But since thou hast vouchsafed Gently , for our instruction , to impart Things above earthly thought , which yet concerned Our knowing , as to highest wisdom seemed , Deign to descend now lower , and relate What may no less perhaps avail us known , How first began this Heaven which we behold Distant so high , with moving fires adorned Innumerable ; and this which yields or fills All space , the ambient air wide interfused Embracing round this floried Earth ; what cause Moved the Creator , in his holy rest Through all eternity , so late to build In Chaos ; and the work begun , how soon Absolved ; if unforbid thou mayest unfold What we , not to explore the secrets ask Of his eternal empire , but the more To magnify his works , the more we know .
And the great light of day yet wants to run Much of his race though steep ; suspense in Heaven , Held by thy voice , thy potent voice , he hears , And longer will delay to hear thee tell His generation , and the rising birth Of Nature from the unapparent Deep : Or if the star of evening and the moon Haste to thy audience , Night with her will bring , Silence ; and Sleep , listening to thee , will watch ; Or we can bid his absence , till thy song End , and dismiss thee ere the morning shine .
Thus Adam his illustrious guest besought : And thus the Godlike Angel answered mild .
This also thy request , with caution asked , Obtain ; though to recount almighty works What words or tongue of Seraph can suffice , Or heart of man suffice to comprehend ?
Yet what thou canst attain , which best may serve To glorify the Maker , and infer Thee also happier , shall not be withheld Thy hearing ; such commission from above I have received , to answer thy desire Of knowledge within bounds ; beyond , abstain To ask ; nor let thine own inventions hope Things not revealed , which the invisible King , Only Omniscient , hath suppressed in night ; To none communicable in Earth or Heaven : Enough is left besides to search and know .
But knowledge is as food , and needs no less Her temperance over appetite , to know In measure what the mind may well contain ; Oppresses else with surfeit , and soon turns Wisdom to folly , as nourishment to wind .
Know then , that , after Lucifer from Heaven ( So call him , brighter once amidst the host Of Angels , than that star the stars among ,) Fell with his flaming legions through the deep Into his place , and the great Son returned Victorious with his Saints , the Omnipotent Eternal Father from his throne beheld Their multitude , and to his Son thus spake .
At least our envious Foe hath failed , who thought All like himself rebellious , by whose aid This inaccessible high strength , the seat Of Deity supreme , us dispossessed , He trusted to have seised , and into fraud Drew many , whom their place knows here no more : Yet far the greater part have kept , I see , Their station ; Heaven , yet populous , retains Number sufficient to possess her realms Though wide , and this high temple to frequent With ministeries due , and solemn rites : But , lest his heart exalt him in the harm Already done , to have dispeopled Heaven , My damage fondly deemed , I can repair That detriment , if such it be to lose Self - lost ; and in a moment will create Another world , out of one man a race Of men innumerable , there to dwell , Not here ; till , by degrees of merit raised , They open to themselves at length the way Up hither , under long obedience tried ; And Earth be changed to Heaven , and Heaven to Earth , One kingdom , joy and union without end .
Mean while inhabit lax , ye Powers of Heaven ; And thou my Word , begotten Son , by thee This I perform ; speak thou , and be it done !
My overshadowing Spirit and Might with thee I send along ; ride forth , and bid the Deep Within appointed bounds be Heaven and Earth ; Boundless the Deep , because I Am who fill Infinitude , nor vacuous the space .
Though I , uncircumscribed myself , retire , And put not forth my goodness , which is free To act or not , Necessity and Chance Approach not me , and what I will is Fate .
So spake the Almighty , and to what he spake His Word , the Filial Godhead , gave effect .
Immediate are the acts of God , more swift Than time or motion , but to human ears Cannot without process of speech be told , So told as earthly notion can receive .
Great triumph and rejoicing was in Heaven , When such was heard declared the Almighty ' s will ; Glory they sung to the Most High , good will To future men , and in their dwellings peace ; Glory to Him , whose just avenging ire Had driven out the ungodly from his sight And the habitations of the just ; to Him Glory and praise , whose wisdom had ordained Good out of evil to create ; instead Of Spirits malign , a better race to bring Into their vacant room , and thence diffuse His good to worlds and ages infinite .
So sang the Hierarchies : Mean while the Son On his great expedition now appeared , Girt with Omnipotence , with radiance crowned Of Majesty Divine ; sapience and love Immense , and all his Father in him shone .
About his chariot numberless were poured Cherub , and Seraph , Potentates , and Thrones , And Virtues , winged Spirits , and chariots winged From the armoury of God ; where stand of old Myriads , between two brazen mountains lodged Against a solemn day , harnessed at hand , Celestial equipage ; and now came forth Spontaneous , for within them Spirit lived , Attendant on their Lord : Heaven opened wide Her ever - during gates , harmonious sound On golden hinges moving , to let forth The King of Glory , in his powerful Word And Spirit , coming to create new worlds .
On heavenly ground they stood ; and from the shore They viewed the vast immeasurable abyss Outrageous as a sea , dark , wasteful , wild , Up from the bottom turned by furious winds And surging waves , as mountains , to assault Heaven ' s highth , and with the center mix the pole .
Silence , ye troubled Waves , and thou Deep , peace , Said then the Omnifick Word ; your discord end !
Nor staid ; but , on the wings of Cherubim Uplifted , in paternal glory rode Far into Chaos , and the world unborn ; For Chaos heard his voice : Him all his train Followed in bright procession , to behold Creation , and the wonders of his might .
Then staid the fervid wheels , and in his hand He took the golden compasses , prepared In God ' s eternal store , to circumscribe This universe , and all created things : One foot he centered , and the other turned Round through the vast profundity obscure ; And said , Thus far extend , thus far thy bounds , This be thy just circumference , O World !
Thus God the Heaven created , thus the Earth , Matter unformed and void : Darkness profound Covered the abyss : but on the watery calm His brooding wings the Spirit of God outspread , And vital virtue infused , and vital warmth Throughout the fluid mass ; but downward purged The black tartareous cold infernal dregs , Adverse to life : then founded , then conglobed Like things to like ; the rest to several place Disparted , and between spun out the air ; And Earth self - balanced on her center hung .
Let there be light , said God ; and forthwith Light Ethereal , first of things , quintessence pure , Sprung from the deep ; and from her native east To journey through the aery gloom began , Sphered in a radiant cloud , for yet the sun Was not ; she in a cloudy tabernacle Sojourned the while .
God saw the light was good ; And light from darkness by the hemisphere Divided : light the Day , and darkness Night , He named .
Thus was the first day even and morn : Nor past uncelebrated , nor unsung By the celestial quires , when orient light Exhaling first from darkness they beheld ; Birth - day of Heaven and Earth ; with joy and shout The hollow universal orb they filled , And touched their golden harps , and hymning praised God and his works ; Creator him they sung , Both when first evening was , and when first morn .
Again , God said , Let there be firmament Amid the waters , and let it divide The waters from the waters ; and God made The firmament , expanse of liquid , pure , Transparent , elemental air , diffused In circuit to the uttermost convex Of this great round ; partition firm and sure , The waters underneath from those above Dividing : for as earth , so he the world Built on circumfluous waters calm , in wide Crystalline ocean , and the loud misrule Of Chaos far removed ; lest fierce extremes Contiguous might distemper the whole frame : And Heaven he named the Firmament : So even And morning chorus sung the second day .
The Earth was formed , but in the womb as yet Of waters , embryon immature involved , Appeared not : over all the face of Earth Main ocean flowed , not idle ; but , with warm Prolifick humour softening all her globe , Fermented the great mother to conceive , Satiate with genial moisture ; when God said , Be gathered now ye waters under Heaven Into one place , and let dry land appear .
Immediately the mountains huge appear Emergent , and their broad bare backs upheave Into the clouds ; their tops ascend the sky : So high as heaved the tumid hills , so low Down sunk a hollow bottom broad and deep , Capacious bed of waters : Thither they Hasted with glad precipitance , uprolled , As drops on dust conglobing from the dry : Part rise in crystal wall , or ridge direct , For haste ; such flight the great command impressed On the swift floods : As armies at the call Of trumpet ( for of armies thou hast heard ) Troop to their standard ; so the watery throng , Wave rolling after wave , where way they found , If steep , with torrent rapture , if through plain , Soft - ebbing ; nor withstood them rock or hill ; But they , or under ground , or circuit wide With serpent errour wandering , found their way , And on the washy oose deep channels wore ; Easy , ere God had bid the ground be dry , All but within those banks , where rivers now Stream , and perpetual draw their humid train .
The dry land , Earth ; and the great receptacle Of congregated waters , he called Seas : And saw that it was good ; and said , Let the Earth Put forth the verdant grass , herb yielding seed , And fruit - tree yielding fruit after her kind , Whose seed is in herself upon the Earth .
He scarce had said , when the bare Earth , till then Desart and bare , unsightly , unadorned , Brought forth the tender grass , whose verdure clad Her universal face with pleasant green ; Then herbs of every leaf , that sudden flowered Opening their various colours , and made gay Her bosom , smelling sweet : and , these scarce blown , Forth flourished thick the clustering vine , forth crept The swelling gourd , up stood the corny reed Embattled in her field , and the humble shrub , And bush with frizzled hair implicit : Last Rose , as in dance , the stately trees , and spread Their branches hung with copious fruit , or gemmed Their blossoms : With high woods the hills were crowned ; With tufts the valleys , and each fountain side ; With borders long the rivers : that Earth now Seemed like to Heaven , a seat where Gods might dwell , Or wander with delight , and love to haunt Her sacred shades : though God had yet not rained Upon the Earth , and man to till the ground None was ; but from the Earth a dewy mist Went up , and watered all the ground , and each Plant of the field ; which , ere it was in the Earth , God made , and every herb , before it grew On the green stem : God saw that it was good : So even and morn recorded the third day .
Again the Almighty spake , Let there be lights High in the expanse of Heaven , to divide The day from night ; and let them be for signs , For seasons , and for days , and circling years ; And let them be for lights , as I ordain Their office in the firmament of Heaven , To give light on the Earth ; and it was so .
And God made two great lights , great for their use To Man , the greater to have rule by day , The less by night , altern ; and made the stars , And set them in the firmament of Heaven To illuminate the Earth , and rule the day In their vicissitude , and rule the night , And light from darkness to divide .
God saw , Surveying his great work , that it was good : For of celestial bodies first the sun A mighty sphere he framed , unlightsome first , Though of ethereal mould : then formed the moon Globose , and every magnitude of stars , And sowed with stars the Heaven , thick as a field : Of light by far the greater part he took , Transplanted from her cloudy shrine , and placed In the sun ' s orb , made porous to receive And drink the liquid light ; firm to retain Her gathered beams , great palace now of light .
Hither , as to their fountain , other stars Repairing , in their golden urns draw light , And hence the morning - planet gilds her horns ; By tincture or reflection they augment Their small peculiar , though from human sight So far remote , with diminution seen , First in his east the glorious lamp was seen , Regent of day , and all the horizon round Invested with bright rays , jocund to run His longitude through Heaven ' s high road ; the gray Dawn , and the Pleiades , before him danced , Shedding sweet influence : Less bright the moon , But opposite in levelled west was set , His mirrour , with full face borrowing her light From him ; for other light she needed none In that aspect , and still that distance keeps Till night ; then in the east her turn she shines , Revolved on Heaven ' s great axle , and her reign With thousand lesser lights dividual holds , With thousand thousand stars , that then appeared Spangling the hemisphere : Then first adorned With their bright luminaries that set and rose , Glad evening and glad morn crowned the fourth day .
And God said , Let the waters generate Reptile with spawn abundant , living soul : And let fowl fly above the Earth , with wings Displayed on the open firmament of Heaven .
And God created the great whales , and each Soul living , each that crept , which plenteously The waters generated by their kinds ; And every bird of wing after his kind ; And saw that it was good , and blessed them , saying .
Be fruitful , multiply , and in the seas , And lakes , and running streams , the waters fill ; And let the fowl be multiplied , on the Earth .
Forthwith the sounds and seas , each creek and bay , With fry innumerable swarm , and shoals Of fish that with their fins , and shining scales , Glide under the green wave , in sculls that oft Bank the mid sea : part single , or with mate , Graze the sea - weed their pasture , and through groves Of coral stray ; or , sporting with quick glance , Show to the sun their waved coats dropt with gold ; Or , in their pearly shells at ease , attend Moist nutriment ; or under rocks their food In jointed armour watch : on smooth the seal And bended dolphins play : part huge of bulk Wallowing unwieldy , enormous in their gait , Tempest the ocean : there leviathan , Hugest of living creatures , on the deep Stretched like a promontory sleeps or swims , And seems a moving land ; and at his gills Draws in , and at his trunk spouts out , a sea .
Mean while the tepid caves , and fens , and shores , Their brood as numerous hatch , from the egg that soon Bursting with kindly rupture forth disclosed Their callow young ; but feathered soon and fledge They summed their pens ; and , soaring the air sublime , With clang despised the ground , under a cloud In prospect ; there the eagle and the stork On cliffs and cedar tops their eyries build : Part loosely wing the region , part more wise In common , ranged in figure , wedge their way , Intelligent of seasons , and set forth Their aery caravan , high over seas Flying , and over lands , with mutual wing Easing their flight ; so steers the prudent crane Her annual voyage , borne on winds ; the air Floats as they pass , fanned with unnumbered plumes : From branch to branch the smaller birds with song Solaced the woods , and spread their painted wings Till even ; nor then the solemn nightingale Ceased warbling , but all night tun ' d her soft lays : Others , on silver lakes and rivers , bathed Their downy breast ; the swan with arched neck , Between her white wings mantling proudly , rows Her state with oary feet ; yet oft they quit The dank , and , rising on stiff pennons , tower The mid aereal sky : Others on ground Walked firm ; the crested cock whose clarion sounds The silent hours , and the other whose gay train Adorns him , coloured with the florid hue Of rainbows and starry eyes .
The waters thus With fish replenished , and the air with fowl , Evening and morn solemnized the fifth day .
The sixth , and of creation last , arose With evening harps and matin ; when God said , Let the Earth bring forth soul living in her kind , Cattle , and creeping things , and beast of the Earth , Each in their kind .
The Earth obeyed , and straight Opening her fertile womb teemed at a birth Innumerous living creatures , perfect forms , Limbed and full grown : Out of the ground up rose , As from his lair , the wild beast where he wons In forest wild , in thicket , brake , or den ; Among the trees in pairs they rose , they walked : The cattle in the fields and meadows green : Those rare and solitary , these in flocks Pasturing at once , and in broad herds upsprung .
The grassy clods now calved ; now half appeared The tawny lion , pawing to get free His hinder parts , then springs as broke from bonds , And rampant shakes his brinded mane ; the ounce , The libbard , and the tiger , as the mole Rising , the crumbled earth above them threw In hillocks : The swift stag from under ground Bore up his branching head : Scarce from his mould Behemoth biggest born of earth upheaved His vastness : Fleeced the flocks and bleating rose , As plants : Ambiguous between sea and land The river - horse , and scaly crocodile .
At once came forth whatever creeps the ground , Insect or worm : those waved their limber fans For wings , and smallest lineaments exact In all the liveries decked of summer ' s pride With spots of gold and purple , azure and green : These , as a line , their long dimension drew , Streaking the ground with sinuous trace ; not all Minims of nature ; some of serpent - kind , Wonderous in length and corpulence , involved Their snaky folds , and added wings .
First crept The parsimonious emmet , provident Of future ; in small room large heart enclosed ; Pattern of just equality perhaps Hereafter , joined in her popular tribes Of commonalty : Swarming next appeared The female bee , that feeds her husband drone Deliciously , and builds her waxen cells With honey stored : The rest are numberless , And thou their natures knowest , and gavest them names , Needless to thee repeated ; nor unknown The serpent , subtlest beast of all the field , Of huge extent sometimes , with brazen eyes And hairy mane terrifick , though to thee Not noxious , but obedient at thy call .
Now Heaven in all her glory shone , and rolled Her motions , as the great first Mover ' s hand First wheeled their course : Earth in her rich attire Consummate lovely smiled ; air , water , earth , By fowl , fish , beast , was flown , was swum , was walked , Frequent ; and of the sixth day yet remained : There wanted yet the master - work , the end Of all yet done ; a creature , who , not prone And brute as other creatures , but endued With sanctity of reason , might erect His stature , and upright with front serene Govern the rest , self - knowing ; and from thence Magnanimous to correspond with Heaven , But grateful to acknowledge whence his good Descends , thither with heart , and voice , and eyes Directed in devotion , to adore And worship God Supreme , who made him chief Of all his works : therefore the Omnipotent Eternal Father ( for where is not he Present ?)
thus to his Son audibly spake .
Let us make now Man in our image , Man In our similitude , and let them rule Over the fish and fowl of sea and air , Beast of the field , and over all the Earth , And every creeping thing that creeps the ground .
This said , he formed thee , Adam , thee , O Man , Dust of the ground , and in thy nostrils breathed The breath of life ; in his own image he Created thee , in the image of God Express ; and thou becamest a living soul .
Male he created thee ; but thy consort Female , for race ; then blessed mankind , and said , Be fruitful , multiply , and fill the Earth ; Subdue it , and throughout dominion hold Over fish of the sea , and fowl of the air , And every living thing that moves on the Earth .
Wherever thus created , for no place Is yet distinct by name , thence , as thou knowest , He brought thee into this delicious grove , This garden , planted with the trees of God , Delectable both to behold and taste ; And freely all their pleasant fruit for food Gave thee ; all sorts are here that all the Earth yields , Variety without end ; but of the tree , Which , tasted , works knowledge of good and evil , Thou mayest not ; in the day thou eatest , thou diest ; Death is the penalty imposed ; beware , And govern well thy appetite ; lest Sin Surprise thee , and her black attendant Death .
Here finished he , and all that he had made Viewed , and behold all was entirely good ; So even and morn accomplished the sixth day : Yet not till the Creator from his work Desisting , though unwearied , up returned , Up to the Heaven of Heavens , his high abode ; Thence to behold this new created world , The addition of his empire , how it showed In prospect from his throne , how good , how fair , Answering his great idea .
Up he rode Followed with acclamation , and the sound Symphonious of ten thousand harps , that tuned Angelick harmonies : The earth , the air Resounded , ( thou rememberest , for thou heardst ,) The heavens and all the constellations rung , The planets in their station listening stood , While the bright pomp ascended jubilant .
Open , ye everlasting gates !
they sung , Open , ye Heavens !
your living doors ; let in The great Creator from his work returned Magnificent , his six days work , a World ; Open , and henceforth oft ; for God will deign To visit oft the dwellings of just men , Delighted ; and with frequent intercourse Thither will send his winged messengers On errands of supernal grace .
So sung The glorious train ascending : He through Heaven , That opened wide her blazing portals , led To God ' s eternal house direct the way ; A broad and ample road , whose dust is gold And pavement stars , as stars to thee appear , Seen in the galaxy , that milky way , Which nightly , as a circling zone , thou seest Powdered with stars .
And now on Earth the seventh Evening arose in Eden , for the sun Was set , and twilight from the east came on , Forerunning night ; when at the holy mount Of Heaven ' s high - seated top , the imperial throne Of Godhead , fixed for ever firm and sure , The Filial Power arrived , and sat him down With his great Father ; for he also went Invisible , yet staid , ( such privilege Hath Omnipresence ) and the work ordained , Author and End of all things ; and , from work Now resting , blessed and hallowed the seventh day , As resting on that day from all his work , But not in silence holy kept : the harp Had work and rested not ; the solemn pipe , And dulcimer , all organs of sweet stop , All sounds on fret by string or golden wire , Tempered soft tunings , intermixed with voice Choral or unison : of incense clouds , Fuming from golden censers , hid the mount .
Creation and the six days acts they sung : Great are thy works , Jehovah !
infinite Thy power !
what thought can measure thee , or tongue Relate thee !
Greater now in thy return Than from the giant Angels : Thee that day Thy thunders magnified ; but to create Is greater than created to destroy .
Who can impair thee , Mighty King , or bound Thy empire !
Easily the proud attempt Of Spirits apostate , and their counsels vain , Thou hast repelled ; while impiously they thought Thee to diminish , and from thee withdraw The number of thy worshippers .
Who seeks To lessen thee , against his purpose serves To manifest the more thy might : his evil Thou usest , and from thence createst more good .
Witness this new - made world , another Heaven From Heaven - gate not far , founded in view On the clear hyaline , the glassy sea ; Of amplitude almost immense , with stars Numerous , and every star perhaps a world Of destined habitation ; but thou knowest Their seasons : among these the seat of Men , Earth , with her nether ocean circumfused , Their pleasant dwelling - place .
Thrice happy Men , And sons of Men , whom God hath thus advanced !
Created in his image , there to dwell And worship him ; and in reward to rule Over his works , on earth , in sea , or air , And multiply a race of worshippers Holy and just : Thrice happy , if they know Their happiness , and persevere upright !
So sung they , and the empyrean rung With halleluiahs : Thus was sabbath kept .
And thy request think now fulfilled , that asked How first this world and face of things began , And what before thy memory was done From the beginning ; that posterity , Informed by thee , might know : If else thou seekest Aught , not surpassing human measure , say .
Book VIII
The Angel ended , and in Adam ' s ear So charming left his voice , that he a while Thought him still speaking , still stood fixed to hear ; Then , as new waked , thus gratefully replied .
What thanks sufficient , or what recompence Equal , have I to render thee , divine Historian , who thus largely hast allayed The thirst I had of knowledge , and vouchsafed This friendly condescension to relate Things , else by me unsearchable ; now heard With wonder , but delight , and , as is due , With glory attributed to the high Creator !
Something yet of doubt remains , Which only thy solution can resolve .
When I behold this goodly frame , this world , Of Heaven and Earth consisting ; and compute Their magnitudes ; this Earth , a spot , a grain , An atom , with the firmament compared And all her numbered stars , that seem to roll Spaces incomprehensible , ( for such Their distance argues , and their swift return Diurnal ,) merely to officiate light Round this opacous Earth , this punctual spot , One day and night ; in all her vast survey Useless besides ; reasoning I oft admire , How Nature wise and frugal could commit Such disproportions , with superfluous hand So many nobler bodies to create , Greater so manifold , to this one use , For aught appears , and on their orbs impose Such restless revolution day by day Repeated ; while the sedentary Earth , That better might with far less compass move , Served by more noble than herself , attains Her end without least motion , and receives , As tribute , such a sumless journey brought Of incorporeal speed , her warmth and light ; Speed , to describe whose swiftness number fails .
So spake our sire , and by his countenance seemed Entering on studious thoughts abstruse ; which Eve Perceiving , where she sat retired in sight , With lowliness majestick from her seat , And grace that won who saw to wish her stay , Rose , and went forth among her fruits and flowers , To visit how they prospered , bud and bloom , Her nursery ; they at her coming sprung , And , touched by her fair tendance , gladlier grew .
Yet went she not , as not with such discourse Delighted , or not capable her ear Of what was high : such pleasure she reserved , Adam relating , she sole auditress ; Her husband the relater she preferred Before the Angel , and of him to ask Chose rather ; he , she knew , would intermix Grateful digressions , and solve high dispute With conjugal caresses : from his lip Not words alone pleased her .
O !
when meet now Such pairs , in love and mutual honour joined ?
With Goddess - like demeanour forth she went , Not unattended ; for on her , as Queen , A pomp of winning Graces waited still , And from about her shot darts of desire Into all eyes , to wish her still in sight .
And Raphael now , to Adam ' s doubt proposed , Benevolent and facile thus replied .
To ask or search , I blame thee not ; for Heaven Is as the book of God before thee set , Wherein to read his wonderous works , and learn His seasons , hours , or days , or months , or years : This to attain , whether Heaven move or Earth , Imports not , if thou reckon right ; the rest From Man or Angel the great Architect Did wisely to conceal , and not divulge His secrets to be scanned by them who ought Rather admire ; or , if they list to try Conjecture , he his fabrick of the Heavens Hath left to their disputes , perhaps to move His laughter at their quaint opinions wide Hereafter ; when they come to model Heaven And calculate the stars , how they will wield The mighty frame ; how build , unbuild , contrive To save appearances ; how gird the sphere With centrick and eccentrick scribbled o ' er , Cycle and epicycle , orb in orb : Already by thy reasoning this I guess , Who art to lead thy offspring , and supposest That bodies bright and greater should not serve The less not bright , nor Heaven such journeys run , Earth sitting still , when she alone receives The benefit : Consider first , that great Or bright infers not excellence : the Earth Though , in comparison of Heaven , so small , Nor glistering , may of solid good contain More plenty than the sun that barren shines ; Whose virtue on itself works no effect , But in the fruitful Earth ; there first received , His beams , unactive else , their vigour find .
Yet not to Earth are those bright luminaries Officious ; but to thee , Earth ' s habitant .
And for the Heaven ' s wide circuit , let it speak The Maker ' s high magnificence , who built So spacious , and his line stretched out so far ; That Man may know he dwells not in his own ; An edifice too large for him to fill , Lodged in a small partition ; and the rest Ordained for uses to his Lord best known .
The swiftness of those circles attribute , Though numberless , to his Omnipotence , That to corporeal substances could add Speed almost spiritual : Me thou thinkest not slow , Who since the morning - hour set out from Heaven Where God resides , and ere mid - day arrived In Eden ; distance inexpressible By numbers that have name .
But this I urge , Admitting motion in the Heavens , to show Invalid that which thee to doubt it moved ; Not that I so affirm , though so it seem To thee who hast thy dwelling here on Earth .
God , to remove his ways from human sense , Placed Heaven from Earth so far , that earthly sight , If it presume , might err in things too high , And no advantage gain .
What if the sun Be center to the world ; and other stars , By his attractive virtue and their own Incited , dance about him various rounds ?
Their wandering course now high , now low , then hid , Progressive , retrograde , or standing still , In six thou seest ; and what if seventh to these The planet earth , so stedfast though she seem , Insensibly three different motions move ?
Which else to several spheres thou must ascribe , Moved contrary with thwart obliquities ; Or save the sun his labour , and that swift Nocturnal and diurnal rhomb supposed , Invisible else above all stars , the wheel Of day and night ; which needs not thy belief , If earth , industrious of herself , fetch day Travelling east , and with her part averse From the sun ' s beam meet night , her other part Still luminous by his ray .
What if that light , Sent from her through the wide transpicuous air , To the terrestrial moon be as a star , Enlightening her by day , as she by night This earth ?
reciprocal , if land be there , Fields and inhabitants : Her spots thou seest As clouds , and clouds may rain , and rain produce Fruits in her softened soil for some to eat Allotted there ; and other suns perhaps , With their attendant moons , thou wilt descry , Communicating male and female light ; Which two great sexes animate the world , Stored in each orb perhaps with some that live .
For such vast room in Nature unpossessed By living soul , desart and desolate , Only to shine , yet scarce to contribute Each orb a glimpse of light , conveyed so far Down to this habitable , which returns Light back to them , is obvious to dispute .
But whether thus these things , or whether not ; But whether the sun , predominant in Heaven , Rise on the earth ; or earth rise on the sun ; He from the east his flaming road begin ; Or she from west her silent course advance , With inoffensive pace that spinning sleeps On her soft axle , while she paces even , And bears thee soft with the smooth hair along ; Sollicit not thy thoughts with matters hid ; Leave them to God above ; him serve , and fear !
Of other creatures , as him pleases best , Wherever placed , let him dispose ; joy thou In what he gives to thee , this Paradise And thy fair Eve ; Heaven is for thee too high To know what passes there ; be lowly wise : Think only what concerns thee , and thy being ; Dream not of other worlds , what creatures there Live , in what state , condition , or degree ; Contented that thus far hath been revealed Not of Earth only , but of highest Heaven .
To whom thus Adam , cleared of doubt , replied .
How fully hast thou satisfied me , pure Intelligence of Heaven , Angel serene !
And , freed from intricacies , taught to live The easiest way ; nor with perplexing thoughts To interrupt the sweet of life , from which God hath bid dwell far off all anxious cares , And not molest us ; unless we ourselves Seek them with wandering thoughts , and notions vain .
But apt the mind or fancy is to rove Unchecked , and of her roving is no end ; Till warned , or by experience taught , she learn , That , not to know at large of things remote From use , obscure and subtle ; but , to know That which before us lies in daily life , Is the prime wisdom : What is more , is fume , Or emptiness , or fond impertinence : And renders us , in things that most concern , Unpractised , unprepared , and still to seek .
Therefore from this high pitch let us descend A lower flight , and speak of things at hand Useful ; whence , haply , mention may arise Of something not unseasonable to ask , By sufferance , and thy wonted favour , deigned .
Thee I have heard relating what was done Ere my remembrance : now , hear me relate My story , which perhaps thou hast not heard ; And day is not yet spent ; till then thou seest How subtly to detain thee I devise ; Inviting thee to hear while I relate ; Fond !
were it not in hope of thy reply : For , while I sit with thee , I seem in Heaven ; And sweeter thy discourse is to my ear Than fruits of palm - tree pleasantest to thirst And hunger both , from labour , at the hour Of sweet repast ; they satiate , and soon fill , Though pleasant ; but thy words , with grace divine Imbued , bring to their sweetness no satiety .
To whom thus Raphael answered heavenly meek .
Nor are thy lips ungraceful , Sire of men , Nor tongue ineloquent ; for God on thee Abundantly his gifts hath also poured Inward and outward both , his image fair : Speaking , or mute , all comeliness and grace Attends thee ; and each word , each motion , forms ; Nor less think we in Heaven of thee on Earth Than of our fellow - servant , and inquire Gladly into the ways of God with Man : For God , we see , hath honoured thee , and set On Man his equal love : Say therefore on ; For I that day was absent , as befel , Bound on a voyage uncouth and obscure , Far on excursion toward the gates of Hell ; Squared in full legion ( such command we had ) To see that none thence issued forth a spy , Or enemy , while God was in his work ; Lest he , incensed at such eruption bold , Destruction with creation might have mixed .
Not that they durst without his leave attempt ; But us he sends upon his high behests For state , as Sovran King ; and to inure Our prompt obedience .
Fast we found , fast shut , The dismal gates , and barricadoed strong ; But long ere our approaching heard within Noise , other than the sound of dance or song , Torment , and loud lament , and furious rage .
Glad we returned up to the coasts of light Ere sabbath - evening : so we had in charge .
But thy relation now ; for I attend , Pleased with thy words no less than thou with mine .
So spake the Godlike Power , and thus our Sire .
For Man to tell how human life began Is hard ; for who himself beginning knew Desire with thee still longer to converse Induced me .
As new waked from soundest sleep , Soft on the flowery herb I found me laid , In balmy sweat ; which with his beams the sun Soon dried , and on the reeking moisture fed .
Straight toward Heaven my wondering eyes I turned , And gazed a while the ample sky ; till , raised By quick instinctive motion , up I sprung , As thitherward endeavouring , and upright Stood on my feet : about me round I saw Hill , dale , and shady woods , and sunny plains , And liquid lapse of murmuring streams ; by these , Creatures that lived and moved , and walked , or flew ; Birds on the branches warbling ; all things smiled ; With fragrance and with joy my heart o ' erflowed .
Myself I then perused , and limb by limb Surveyed , and sometimes went , and sometimes ran With supple joints , as lively vigour led : But who I was , or where , or from what cause , Knew not ; to speak I tried , and forthwith spake ; My tongue obeyed , and readily could name Whate ' er I saw .
Thou Sun , said I , fair light , And thou enlightened Earth , so fresh and gay , Ye Hills , and Dales , ye Rivers , Woods , and Plains , And ye that live and move , fair Creatures , tell , Tell , if ye saw , how I came thus , how here ?-- Not of myself ;-- by some great Maker then , In goodness and in power pre - eminent : Tell me , how may I know him , how adore , From whom I have that thus I move and live , And feel that I am happier than I know .-- While thus I called , and strayed I knew not whither , From where I first drew air , and first beheld This happy light ; when , answer none returned , On a green shady bank , profuse of flowers , Pensive I sat me down : There gentle sleep First found me , and with soft oppression seised My droused sense , untroubled , though I thought I then was passing to my former state Insensible , and forthwith to dissolve : When suddenly stood at my head a dream , Whose inward apparition gently moved My fancy to believe I yet had being , And lived : One came , methought , of shape divine , And said , ' Thy mansion wants thee , Adam ; rise , ' First Man , of men innumerable ordained ' First Father !
called by thee , I come thy guide ' To the garden of bliss , thy seat prepared .'
So saying , by the hand he took me raised , And over fields and waters , as in air Smooth - sliding without step , last led me up A woody mountain ; whose high top was plain , A circuit wide , enclosed , with goodliest trees Planted , with walks , and bowers ; that what I saw Of Earth before scarce pleasant seemed .
Each tree , Loaden with fairest fruit that hung to the eye Tempting , stirred in me sudden appetite To pluck and eat ; whereat I waked , and found Before mine eyes all real , as the dream Had lively shadowed : Here had new begun My wandering , had not he , who was my guide Up hither , from among the trees appeared , Presence Divine .
Rejoicing , but with awe , In adoration at his feet I fell Submiss : He reared me , and ' Whom thou soughtest I am ,' Said mildly , ' Author of all this thou seest ' Above , or round about thee , or beneath .
' This Paradise I give thee , count it thine ' To till and keep , and of the fruit to eat : ' Of every tree that in the garden grows ' Eat freely with glad heart ; fear here no dearth : ' But of the tree whose operation brings ' Knowledge of good and ill , which I have set ' The pledge of thy obedience and thy faith , ' Amid the garden by the tree of life , ' Remember what I warn thee , shun to taste , ' And shun the bitter consequence : for know , ' The day thou eatest thereof , my sole command ' Transgressed , inevitably thou shalt die , ' From that day mortal ; and this happy state ' Shalt lose , expelled from hence into a world ' Of woe and sorrow .'
Sternly he pronounced The rigid interdiction , which resounds Yet dreadful in mine ear , though in my choice Not to incur ; but soon his clear aspect Returned , and gracious purpose thus renewed .
' Not only these fair bounds , but all the Earth ' To thee and to thy race I give ; as lords ' Possess it , and all things that therein live , ' Or live in sea , or air ; beast , fish , and fowl .
' In sign whereof , each bird and beast behold ' After their kinds ; I bring them to receive ' From thee their names , and pay thee fealty ' With low subjection ; understand the same ' Of fish within their watery residence , ' Not hither summoned , since they cannot change ' Their element , to draw the thinner air .'
As thus he spake , each bird and beast behold Approaching two and two ; these cowering low With blandishment ; each bird stooped on his wing .
I named them , as they passed , and understood Their nature , with such knowledge God endued My sudden apprehension : But in these I found not what methought I wanted still ; And to the heavenly Vision thus presumed .
O , by what name , for thou above all these , Above mankind , or aught than mankind higher , Surpassest far my naming ; how may I Adore thee , Author of this universe , And all this good to man ?
for whose well being So amply , and with hands so liberal , Thou hast provided all things : But with me I see not who partakes .
In solitude What happiness , who can enjoy alone , Or , all enjoying , what contentment find ?
Thus I presumptuous ; and the Vision bright , As with a smile more brightened , thus replied .
What callest thou solitude ?
Is not the Earth With various living creatures , and the air Replenished , and all these at thy command To come and play before thee ?
Knowest thou not Their language and their ways ?
They also know , And reason not contemptibly : With these Find pastime , and bear rule ; thy realm is large .
So spake the Universal Lord , and seemed So ordering : I , with leave of speech implored , And humble deprecation , thus replied .
Let not my words offend thee , Heavenly Power ; My Maker , be propitious while I speak .
Hast thou not made me here thy substitute , And these inferiour far beneath me set ?
Among unequals what society Can sort , what harmony , or true delight ?
Which must be mutual , in proportion due Given and received ; but , in disparity The one intense , the other still remiss , Cannot well suit with either , but soon prove Tedious alike : Of fellowship I speak Such as I seek , fit to participate All rational delight : wherein the brute Cannot be human consort : They rejoice Each with their kind , lion with lioness ; So fitly them in pairs thou hast combined : Much less can bird with beast , or fish with fowl So well converse , nor with the ox the ape ; Worse then can man with beast , and least of all .
Whereto the Almighty answered , not displeased .
A nice and subtle happiness , I see , Thou to thyself proposest , in the choice Of thy associates , Adam !
and wilt taste No pleasure , though in pleasure , solitary .
What thinkest thou then of me , and this my state ?
Seem I to thee sufficiently possessed Of happiness , or not ?
who am alone From all eternity ; for none I know Second to me or like , equal much less .
How have I then with whom to hold converse , Save with the creatures which I made , and those To me inferiour , infinite descents Beneath what other creatures are to thee ?
He ceased ; I lowly answered .
To attain The highth and depth of thy eternal ways All human thoughts come short , Supreme of things !
Thou in thyself art perfect , and in thee Is no deficience found : Not so is Man , But in degree ; the cause of his desire By conversation with his like to help Or solace his defects .
No need that thou Shouldst propagate , already Infinite ; And through all numbers absolute , though One : But Man by number is to manifest His single imperfection , and beget Like of his like , his image multiplied , In unity defective ; which requires Collateral love , and dearest amity .
Thou in thy secresy although alone , Best with thyself accompanied , seekest not Social communication ; yet , so pleased , Canst raise thy creature to what highth thou wilt Of union or communion , deified : I , by conversing , cannot these erect From prone ; nor in their ways complacence find .
Thus I emboldened spake , and freedom used Permissive , and acceptance found ; which gained This answer from the gracious Voice Divine .
Thus far to try thee , Adam , I was pleased ; And find thee knowing , not of beasts alone , Which thou hast rightly named , but of thyself ; Expressing well the spirit within thee free , My image , not imparted to the brute ; Whose fellowship therefore unmeet for thee Good reason was thou freely shouldst dislike ; And be so minded still : I , ere thou spakest , Knew it not good for Man to be alone ; And no such company as then thou sawest Intended thee ; for trial only brought , To see how thou couldest judge of fit and meet : What next I bring shall please thee , be assured , Thy likeness , thy fit help , thy other self , Thy wish exactly to thy heart ' s desire .
He ended , or I heard no more ; for now My earthly by his heavenly overpowered , Which it had long stood under , strained to the highth In that celestial colloquy sublime , As with an object that excels the sense Dazzled and spent , sunk down ; and sought repair Of sleep , which instantly fell on me , called By Nature as in aid , and closed mine eyes .
Mine eyes he closed , but open left the cell Of fancy , my internal sight ; by which , Abstract as in a trance , methought I saw , Though sleeping , where I lay , and saw the shape Still glorious before whom awake I stood : Who stooping opened my left side , and took From thence a rib , with cordial spirits warm , And life - blood streaming fresh ; wide was the wound , But suddenly with flesh filled up and healed : The rib he formed and fashioned with his hands ; Under his forming hands a creature grew , Man - like , but different sex ; so lovely fair , That what seemed fair in all the world , seemed now Mean , or in her summed up , in her contained And in her looks ; which from that time infused Sweetness into my heart , unfelt before , And into all things from her air inspired The spirit of love and amorous delight .
She disappeared , and left me dark ; I waked To find her , or for ever to deplore Her loss , and other pleasures all abjure : When out of hope , behold her , not far off , Such as I saw her in my dream , adorned With what all Earth or Heaven could bestow To make her amiable : On she came , Led by her heavenly Maker , though unseen , And guided by his voice ; nor uninformed Of nuptial sanctity , and marriage rites : Grace was in all her steps , Heaven in her eye , In every gesture dignity and love .
I , overjoyed , could not forbear aloud .
This turn hath made amends ; thou hast fulfilled Thy words , Creator bounteous and benign , Giver of all things fair !
but fairest this Of all thy gifts !
nor enviest .
I now see Bone of my bone , flesh of my flesh , myself Before me : Woman is her name ; of Man Extracted : for this cause he shall forego Father and mother , and to his wife adhere ; And they shall be one flesh , one heart , one soul .
She heard me thus ; and though divinely brought , Yet innocence , and virgin modesty , Her virtue , and the conscience of her worth , That would be wooed , and not unsought be won , Not obvious , not obtrusive , but , retired , The more desirable ; or , to say all , Nature herself , though pure of sinful thought , Wrought in her so , that , seeing me , she turned : I followed her ; she what was honour knew , And with obsequious majesty approved My pleaded reason .
To the nuptial bower I led her blushing like the morn : All Heaven , And happy constellations , on that hour Shed their selectest influence ; the Earth Gave sign of gratulation , and each hill ; Joyous the birds ; fresh gales and gentle airs Whispered it to the woods , and from their wings Flung rose , flung odours from the spicy shrub , Disporting , till the amorous bird of night Sung spousal , and bid haste the evening - star On his hill top , to light the bridal lamp .
Thus have I told thee all my state , and brought My story to the sum of earthly bliss , Which I enjoy ; and must confess to find In all things else delight indeed , but such As , used or not , works in the mind no change , Nor vehement desire ; these delicacies I mean of taste , sight , smell , herbs , fruits , and flowers , Walks , and the melody of birds : but here Far otherwise , transported I behold , Transported touch ; here passion first I felt , Commotion strange !
in all enjoyments else Superiour and unmoved ; here only weak Against the charm of Beauty ' s powerful glance .
Or Nature failed in me , and left some part Not proof enough such object to sustain ; Or , from my side subducting , took perhaps More than enough ; at least on her bestowed Too much of ornament , in outward show Elaborate , of inward less exact .
For well I understand in the prime end Of Nature her the inferiour , in the mind And inward faculties , which most excel ; In outward also her resembling less His image who made both , and less expressing The character of that dominion given O ' er other creatures : Yet when I approach Her loveliness , so absolute she seems And in herself complete , so well to know Her own , that what she wills to do or say , Seems wisest , virtuousest , discreetest , best : All higher knowledge in her presence falls Degraded ; Wisdom in discourse with her Loses discountenanced , and like Folly shows ; Authority and Reason on her wait , As one intended first , not after made Occasionally ; and , to consummate all , Greatness of mind and Nobleness their seat Build in her loveliest , and create an awe About her , as a guard angelick placed .
To whom the Angel with contracted brow .
Accuse not Nature , she hath done her part ; Do thou but thine ; and be not diffident Of Wisdom ; she deserts thee not , if thou Dismiss not her , when most thou needest her nigh , By attributing overmuch to things Less excellent , as thou thyself perceivest .
For , what admirest thou , what transports thee so , An outside ?
fair , no doubt , and worthy well Thy cherishing , thy honouring , and thy love ; Not thy subjection : Weigh with her thyself ; Then value : Oft - times nothing profits more Than self - esteem , grounded on just and right Well managed ; of that skill the more thou knowest , The more she will acknowledge thee her head , And to realities yield all her shows : Made so adorn for thy delight the more , So awful , that with honour thou mayest love Thy mate , who sees when thou art seen least wise .
But if the sense of touch , whereby mankind Is propagated , seem such dear delight Beyond all other ; think the same vouchsafed To cattle and each beast ; which would not be To them made common and divulged , if aught Therein enjoyed were worthy to subdue The soul of man , or passion in him move .
What higher in her society thou findest Attractive , human , rational , love still ; In loving thou dost well , in passion not , Wherein true love consists not : Love refines The thoughts , and heart enlarges ; hath his seat In reason , and is judicious ; is the scale By which to heavenly love thou mayest ascend , Not sunk in carnal pleasure ; for which cause , Among the beasts no mate for thee was found .
To whom thus , half abashed , Adam replied .
Neither her outside formed so fair , nor aught In procreation common to all kinds , ( Though higher of the genial bed by far , And with mysterious reverence I deem ,) So much delights me , as those graceful acts , Those thousand decencies , that daily flow From all her words and actions mixed with love And sweet compliance , which declare unfeigned Union of mind , or in us both one soul ; Harmony to behold in wedded pair More grateful than harmonious sound to the ear .
Yet these subject not ; I to thee disclose What inward thence I feel , not therefore foiled , Who meet with various objects , from the sense Variously representing ; yet , still free , Approve the best , and follow what I approve .
To love , thou blamest me not ; for Love , thou sayest , Leads up to Heaven , is both the way and guide ; Bear with me then , if lawful what I ask : Love not the heavenly Spirits , and how their love Express they ?
by looks only ?
or do they mix Irradiance , virtual or immediate touch ?
To whom the Angel , with a smile that glowed Celestial rosy red , Love ' s proper hue , Answered .
Let it suffice thee that thou knowest Us happy , and without love no happiness .
Whatever pure thou in the body enjoyest , ( And pure thou wert created ) we enjoy In eminence ; and obstacle find none Of membrane , joint , or limb , exclusive bars ; Easier than air with air , if Spirits embrace , Total they mix , union of pure with pure Desiring , nor restrained conveyance need , As flesh to mix with flesh , or soul with soul .
But I can now no more ; the parting sun Beyond the Earth ' s green Cape and verdant Isles Hesperian sets , my signal to depart .
Be strong , live happy , and love !
But , first of all , Him , whom to love is to obey , and keep His great command ; take heed lest passion sway Thy judgement to do aught , which else free will Would not admit : thine , and of all thy sons , The weal or woe in thee is placed ; beware !
I in thy persevering shall rejoice , And all the Blest : Stand fast ; to stand or fall Free in thine own arbitrement it lies .
Perfect within , no outward aid require ; And all temptation to transgress repel .
So saying , he arose ; whom Adam thus Followed with benediction .
Since to part , Go , heavenly guest , ethereal Messenger , Sent from whose sovran goodness I adore !
Gentle to me and affable hath been Thy condescension , and shall be honoured ever With grateful memory : Thou to mankind Be good and friendly still , and oft return !
So parted they ; the Angel up to Heaven From the thick shade , and Adam to his bower .
Book IX
No more of talk where God or Angel guest With Man , as with his friend , familiar us ' d , To sit indulgent , and with him partake Rural repast ; permitting him the while Venial discourse unblam ' d .
I now must change Those notes to tragick ; foul distrust , and breach Disloyal on the part of Man , revolt , And disobedience : on the part of Heaven Now alienated , distance and distaste , Anger and just rebuke , and judgement given , That brought into this world a world of woe , Sin and her shadow Death , and Misery Death ' s harbinger : Sad talk ! yet argument Not less but more heroick than the wrath Of stern Achilles on his foe pursued Thrice fugitive about Troy wall ; or rage Of Turnus for Lavinia disespous ' d ; Or Neptune ' s ire , or Juno ' s , that so long Perplexed the Greek , and Cytherea ' s son :
00482129 If answerable style I can obtain Of my celestial patroness , who deigns Her nightly visitation unimplor ' d , And dictates to me slumbering ; or inspires Easy my unpremeditated verse : Since first this subject for heroick song Pleas ' d me long choosing , and beginning late ; Not sedulous by nature to indite Wars , hitherto the only argument Heroick deem ' d chief mastery to dissect With long and tedious havock fabled knights In battles feign ' d ; the better fortitude Of patience and heroick martyrdom Unsung ; or to describe races and games , Or tilting furniture , imblazon ' d shields , Impresses quaint , caparisons and steeds , Bases and tinsel trappings , gorgeous knights At joust and tournament ; then marshall ' d feast Serv ' d up in hall with sewers and seneshals ; The skill of artifice or office mean , Not that which justly gives heroick name To person , or to poem .
Me , of these Nor skill ' d nor studious , higher argument Remains ; sufficient of itself to raise That name , unless an age too late , or cold Climate , or years , damp my intended wing Depress ' d ; and much they may , if all be mine , Not hers , who brings it nightly to my ear .
The sun was sunk , and after him the star Of Hesperus , whose office is to bring Twilight upon the earth , short arbiter " twixt day and night , and now from end to end Night ' s hemisphere had veil ' d the horizon round : When satan , who late fled before the threats Of Gabriel out of Eden , now improv ' d In meditated fraud and malice , bent On Man ' s destruction , maugre what might hap Of heavier on himself , fearless returned From compassing the earth ; cautious of day , Since Uriel , regent of the sun , descried His entrance , and foreworned the Cherubim That kept their watch ; thence full of anguish driven , The space of seven continued nights he rode With darkness ; thrice the equinoctial line He circled ; four times crossed the car of night From pole to pole , traversing each colure ; On the eighth returned ; and , on the coast averse From entrance or Cherubick watch , by stealth Found unsuspected way .
There was a place , Now not , though sin , not time , first wrought the change , Where Tigris , at the foot of Paradise , Into a gulf shot under ground , till part Rose up a fountain by the tree of life : In with the river sunk , and with it rose Satan , involved in rising mist ; then sought Where to lie hid ; sea he had searched , and land , From Eden over Pontus and the pool Maeotis , up beyond the river Ob ; Downward as far antarctick ; and in length , West from Orontes to the ocean barred At Darien ; thence to the land where flows Ganges and Indus : Thus the orb he roamed With narrow search ; and with inspection deep Considered every creature , which of all Most opportune might serve his wiles ; and found The Serpent subtlest beast of all the field .
Him after long debate , irresolute Of thoughts revolved , his final sentence chose Fit vessel , fittest imp of fraud , in whom To enter , and his dark suggestions hide From sharpest sight : for , in the wily snake Whatever sleights , none would suspicious mark , As from his wit and native subtlety Proceeding ; which , in other beasts observed , Doubt might beget of diabolick power Active within , beyond the sense of brute .
Thus he resolved , but first from inward grief His bursting passion into plaints thus poured .
More justly , seat worthier of Gods , as built With second thoughts , reforming what was old !
O Earth , how like to Heaven , if not preferred For what God , after better , worse would build ?
Terrestrial Heaven , danced round by other Heavens That shine , yet bear their bright officious lamps , Light above light , for thee alone , as seems , In thee concentring all their precious beams Of sacred influence !
As God in Heaven Is center , yet extends to all ; so thou , Centring , receivest from all those orbs : in thee , Not in themselves , all their known virtue appears Productive in herb , plant , and nobler birth Of creatures animate with gradual life Of growth , sense , reason , all summed up in Man .
With what delight could I have walked thee round , If I could joy in aught , sweet interchange Of hill , and valley , rivers , woods , and plains , Now land , now sea and shores with forest crowned , Rocks , dens , and caves !
But I in none of these Find place or refuge ; and the more I see Pleasures about me , so much more I feel Torment within me , as from the hateful siege Of contraries : all good to me becomes Bane , and in Heaven much worse would be my state .
But neither here seek I , no nor in Heaven To dwell , unless by mastering Heaven ' s Supreme ; Nor hope to be myself less miserable By what I seek , but others to make such As I , though thereby worse to me redound : For only in destroying I find ease To my relentless thoughts ; and , him destroyed , Or won to what may work his utter loss , For whom all this was made , all this will soon Follow , as to him linked in weal or woe ; In woe then ; that destruction wide may range : To me shall be the glory sole among The infernal Powers , in one day to have marred What he , Almighty styled , six nights and days Continued making ; and who knows how long Before had been contriving ?
though perhaps Not longer than since I , in one night , freed From servitude inglorious well nigh half The angelick name , and thinner left the throng Of his adorers : He , to be avenged , And to repair his numbers thus impaired , Whether such virtue spent of old now failed More Angels to create , if they at least Are his created , or , to spite us more , Determined to advance into our room A creature formed of earth , and him endow , Exalted from so base original , With heavenly spoils , our spoils : What he decreed , He effected ; Man he made , and for him built Magnificent this world , and earth his seat , Him lord pronounced ; and , O indignity !
Subjected to his service angel - wings , And flaming ministers to watch and tend Their earthly charge : Of these the vigilance I dread ; and , to elude , thus wrapt in mist Of midnight vapour glide obscure , and pry In every bush and brake , where hap may find The serpent sleeping ; in whose mazy folds To hide me , and the dark intent I bring .
O foul descent !
that I , who erst contended With Gods to sit the highest , am now constrained Into a beast ; and , mixed with bestial slime , This essence to incarnate and imbrute , That to the highth of Deity aspired !
But what will not ambition and revenge Descend to ?
Who aspires , must down as low As high he soared ; obnoxious , first or last , To basest things .
Revenge , at first though sweet , Bitter ere long , back on itself recoils : Let it ; I reck not , so it light well aimed , Since higher I fall short , on him who next Provokes my envy , this new favourite Of Heaven , this man of clay , son of despite , Whom , us the more to spite , his Maker raised From dust : Spite then with spite is best repaid .
So saying , through each thicket dank or dry , Like a black mist low - creeping , he held on His midnight - search , where soonest he might find The serpent ; him fast - sleeping soon he found In labyrinth of many a round self - rolled , His head the midst , well stored with subtile wiles : Not yet in horrid shade or dismal den , Nor nocent yet ; but , on the grassy herb , Fearless unfeared he slept : in at his mouth The Devil entered ; and his brutal sense , In heart or head , possessing , soon inspired With act intelligential ; but his sleep Disturbed not , waiting close the approach of morn .
Now , when as sacred light began to dawn In Eden on the humid flowers , that breathed Their morning incense , when all things , that breathe , From the Earth ' s great altar send up silent praise To the Creator , and his nostrils fill With grateful smell , forth came the human pair , And joined their vocal worship to the quire Of creatures wanting voice ; that done , partake The season prime for sweetest scents and airs : Then commune , how that day they best may ply Their growing work : for much their work out - grew The hands ' dispatch of two gardening so wide , And Eve first to her husband thus began .
Adam , well may we labour still to dress This garden , still to tend plant , herb , and flower , Our pleasant task enjoined ; but , till more hands Aid us , the work under our labour grows , Luxurious by restraint ; what we by day Lop overgrown , or prune , or prop , or bind , One night or two with wanton growth derides Tending to wild .
Thou therefore now advise , Or bear what to my mind first thoughts present : Let us divide our labours ; thou , where choice Leads thee , or where most needs , whether to wind The woodbine round this arbour , or direct The clasping ivy where to climb ; while I , In yonder spring of roses intermixed With myrtle , find what to redress till noon : For , while so near each other thus all day Our task we choose , what wonder if so near Looks intervene and smiles , or object new Casual discourse draw on ; which intermits Our day ' s work , brought to little , though begun Early , and the hour of supper comes unearned ?
To whom mild answer Adam thus returned .
Sole Eve , associate sole , to me beyond Compare above all living creatures dear !
Well hast thou motioned , well thy thoughts employed , How we might best fulfil the work which here God hath assigned us ; nor of me shalt pass Unpraised : for nothing lovelier can be found In woman , than to study houshold good , And good works in her husband to promote .
Yet not so strictly hath our Lord imposed Labour , as to debar us when we need Refreshment , whether food , or talk between , Food of the mind , or this sweet intercourse Of looks and smiles ; for smiles from reason flow , To brute denied , and are of love the food ; Love , not the lowest end of human life .
For not to irksome toil , but to delight , He made us , and delight to reason joined .
These paths and bowers doubt not but our joint hands Will keep from wilderness with ease , as wide As we need walk , till younger hands ere long Assist us ; But , if much converse perhaps Thee satiate , to short absence I could yield : For solitude sometimes is best society , And short retirement urges sweet return .
But other doubt possesses me , lest harm Befall thee severed from me ; for thou knowest What hath been warned us , what malicious foe Envying our happiness , and of his own Despairing , seeks to work us woe and shame By sly assault ; and somewhere nigh at hand Watches , no doubt , with greedy hope to find His wish and best advantage , us asunder ; Hopeless to circumvent us joined , where each To other speedy aid might lend at need : Whether his first design be to withdraw Our fealty from God , or to disturb Conjugal love , than which perhaps no bliss Enjoyed by us excites his envy more ; Or this , or worse , leave not the faithful side That gave thee being , still shades thee , and protects .
The wife , where danger or dishonour lurks , Safest and seemliest by her husband stays , Who guards her , or with her the worst endures .
To whom the virgin majesty of Eve , As one who loves , and some unkindness meets , With sweet austere composure thus replied .
Offspring of Heaven and Earth , and all Earth ' s Lord !
That such an enemy we have , who seeks Our ruin , both by thee informed I learn , And from the parting Angel over - heard , As in a shady nook I stood behind , Just then returned at shut of evening flowers .
But , that thou shouldst my firmness therefore doubt To God or thee , because we have a foe May tempt it , I expected not to hear .
His violence thou fearest not , being such As we , not capable of death or pain , Can either not receive , or can repel .
His fraud is then thy fear ; which plain infers Thy equal fear , that my firm faith and love Can by his fraud be shaken or seduced ; Thoughts , which how found they harbour in thy breast , Adam , mis - thought of her to thee so dear ?
To whom with healing words Adam replied .
Daughter of God and Man , immortal Eve !
For such thou art ; from sin and blame entire : Not diffident of thee do I dissuade Thy absence from my sight , but to avoid The attempt itself , intended by our foe .
For he who tempts , though in vain , at least asperses The tempted with dishonour foul ; supposed Not incorruptible of faith , not proof Against temptation : Thou thyself with scorn And anger wouldst resent the offered wrong , Though ineffectual found : misdeem not then , If such affront I labour to avert From thee alone , which on us both at once The enemy , though bold , will hardly dare ; Or daring , first on me the assault shall light .
Nor thou his malice and false guile contemn ; Subtle he needs must be , who could seduce Angels ; nor think superfluous other ' s aid .
I , from the influence of thy looks , receive Access in every virtue ; in thy sight More wise , more watchful , stronger , if need were Of outward strength ; while shame , thou looking on , Shame to be overcome or over - reached , Would utmost vigour raise , and raised unite .
Why shouldst not thou like sense within thee feel When I am present , and thy trial choose With me , best witness of thy virtue tried ?
So spake domestick Adam in his care And matrimonial love ; but Eve , who thought Less attributed to her faith sincere , Thus her reply with accent sweet renewed .
If this be our condition , thus to dwell In narrow circuit straitened by a foe , Subtle or violent , we not endued Single with like defence , wherever met ; How are we happy , still in fear of harm ?
But harm precedes not sin : only our foe , Tempting , affronts us with his foul esteem Of our integrity : his foul esteem Sticks no dishonour on our front , but turns Foul on himself ; then wherefore shunned or feared By us ?
who rather double honour gain From his surmise proved false ; find peace within , Favour from Heaven , our witness , from the event .
And what is faith , love , virtue , unassayed Alone , without exteriour help sustained ?
Let us not then suspect our happy state Left so imperfect by the Maker wise , As not secure to single or combined .
Frail is our happiness , if this be so , And Eden were no Eden , thus exposed .
To whom thus Adam fervently replied .
O Woman , best are all things as the will Of God ordained them : His creating hand Nothing imperfect or deficient left Of all that he created , much less Man , Or aught that might his happy state secure , Secure from outward force ; within himself The danger lies , yet lies within his power : Against his will he can receive no harm .
But God left free the will ; for what obeys Reason , is free ; and Reason he made right , But bid her well be ware , and still erect ; Lest , by some fair - appearing good surprised , She dictate false ; and mis - inform the will To do what God expressly hath forbid .
Not then mistrust , but tender love , enjoins , That I should mind thee oft ; and mind thou me .
Firm we subsist , yet possible to swerve ; Since Reason not impossibly may meet Some specious object by the foe suborned , And fall into deception unaware , Not keeping strictest watch , as she was warned .
Seek not temptation then , which to avoid Were better , and most likely if from me Thou sever not : Trial will come unsought .
Wouldst thou approve thy constancy , approve First thy obedience ; the other who can know , Not seeing thee attempted , who attest ?
But , if thou think , trial unsought may find Us both securer than thus warned thou seemest , Go ; for thy stay , not free , absents thee more ; Go in thy native innocence , rely On what thou hast of virtue ; summon all !
For God towards thee hath done his part , do thine .
So spake the patriarch of mankind ; but Eve Persisted ; yet submiss , though last , replied .
With thy permission then , and thus forewarned Chiefly by what thy own last reasoning words Touched only ; that our trial , when least sought , May find us both perhaps far less prepared , The willinger I go , nor much expect A foe so proud will first the weaker seek ; So bent , the more shall shame him his repulse .
Thus saying , from her husband ' s hand her hand Soft she withdrew ; and , like a Wood - Nymph light , Oread or Dryad , or of Delia ' s train , Betook her to the groves ; but Delia ' s self In gait surpassed , and Goddess - like deport , Though not as she with bow and quiver armed , But with such gardening tools as Art yet rude , Guiltless of fire , had formed , or Angels brought .
To Pales , or Pomona , thus adorned , Likest she seemed , Pomona when she fled Vertumnus , or to Ceres in her prime , Yet virgin of Proserpina from Jove .
Her long with ardent look his eye pursued Delighted , but desiring more her stay .
Oft he to her his charge of quick return Repeated ; she to him as oft engaged To be returned by noon amid the bower , And all things in best order to invite Noontide repast , or afternoon ' s repose .
O much deceived , much failing , hapless Eve , Of thy presumed return !
event perverse !
Thou never from that hour in Paradise Foundst either sweet repast , or sound repose ; Such ambush , hid among sweet flowers and shades , Waited with hellish rancour imminent To intercept thy way , or send thee back Despoiled of innocence , of faith , of bliss !
For now , and since first break of dawn , the Fiend , Mere serpent in appearance , forth was come ; And on his quest , where likeliest he might find The only two of mankind , but in them The whole included race , his purposed prey .
In bower and field he sought , where any tuft Of grove or garden - plot more pleasant lay , Their tendance , or plantation for delight ; By fountain or by shady rivulet He sought them both , but wished his hap might find Eve separate ; he wished , but not with hope Of what so seldom chanced ; when to his wish , Beyond his hope , Eve separate he spies , Veiled in a cloud of fragrance , where she stood , Half spied , so thick the roses blushing round About her glowed , oft stooping to support Each flower of slender stalk , whose head , though gay Carnation , purple , azure , or specked with gold , Hung drooping unsustained ; them she upstays Gently with myrtle band , mindless the while Herself , though fairest unsupported flower , From her best prop so far , and storm so nigh .
Nearer he drew , and many a walk traversed Of stateliest covert , cedar , pine , or palm ; Then voluble and bold , now hid , now seen , Among thick - woven arborets , and flowers Imbordered on each bank , the hand of Eve : Spot more delicious than those gardens feigned Or of revived Adonis , or renowned Alcinous , host of old Laertes ' son ; Or that , not mystick , where the sapient king Held dalliance with his fair Egyptian spouse .
Much he the place admired , the person more .
As one who long in populous city pent , Where houses thick and sewers annoy the air , Forth issuing on a summer ' s morn , to breathe Among the pleasant villages and farms Adjoined , from each thing met conceives delight ; The smell of grain , or tedded grass , or kine , Or dairy , each rural sight , each rural sound ; If chance , with nymph - like step , fair virgin pass , What pleasing seemed , for her now pleases more ; She most , and in her look sums all delight : Such pleasure took the Serpent to behold This flowery plat , the sweet recess of Eve Thus early , thus alone : Her heavenly form Angelick , but more soft , and feminine , Her graceful innocence , her every air Of gesture , or least action , overawed His malice , and with rapine sweet bereaved His fierceness of the fierce intent it brought : That space the Evil - one abstracted stood From his own evil , and for the time remained Stupidly good ; of enmity disarmed , Of guile , of hate , of envy , of revenge : But the hot Hell that always in him burns , Though in mid Heaven , soon ended his delight , And tortures him now more , the more he sees Of pleasure , not for him ordained : then soon Fierce hate he recollects , and all his thoughts Of mischief , gratulating , thus excites .
Thoughts , whither have ye led me !
with what sweet Compulsion thus transported , to forget What hither brought us !
hate , not love ; nor hope Of Paradise for Hell , hope here to taste Of pleasure ; but all pleasure to destroy , Save what is in destroying ; other joy To me is lost .
Then , let me not let pass Occasion which now smiles ; behold alone The woman , opportune to all attempts , Her husband , for I view far round , not nigh , Whose higher intellectual more I shun , And strength , of courage haughty , and of limb Heroick built , though of terrestrial mould ; Foe not informidable !
exempt from wound , I not ; so much hath Hell debased , and pain Enfeebled me , to what I was in Heaven .
She fair , divinely fair , fit love for Gods !
Not terrible , though terrour be in love And beauty , not approached by stronger hate , Hate stronger , under show of love well feigned ; The way which to her ruin now I tend .
So spake the enemy of mankind , enclosed In serpent , inmate bad !
and toward Eve Addressed his way : not with indented wave , Prone on the ground , as since ; but on his rear , Circular base of rising folds , that towered Fold above fold , a surging maze !
his head Crested aloft , and carbuncle his eyes ; With burnished neck of verdant gold , erect Amidst his circling spires , that on the grass Floated redundant : pleasing was his shape And lovely ; never since of serpent - kind Lovelier , not those that in Illyria changed , Hermione and Cadmus , or the god In Epidaurus ; nor to which transformed Ammonian Jove , or Capitoline , was seen ; He with Olympias ; this with her who bore Scipio , the highth of Rome .
With tract oblique At first , as one who sought access , but feared To interrupt , side - long he works his way .
As when a ship , by skilful steersmen wrought Nigh river ' s mouth or foreland , where the wind Veers oft , as oft so steers , and shifts her sail : So varied he , and of his tortuous train Curled many a wanton wreath in sight of Eve , To lure her eye ; she , busied , heard the sound Of rusling leaves , but minded not , as used To such disport before her through the field , From every beast ; more duteous at her call , Than at Circean call the herd disguised .
He , bolder now , uncalled before her stood , But as in gaze admiring : oft he bowed His turret crest , and sleek enamelled neck , Fawning ; and licked the ground whereon she trod .
His gentle dumb expression turned at length The eye of Eve to mark his play ; he , glad Of her attention gained , with serpent - tongue Organick , or impulse of vocal air , His fraudulent temptation thus began .
Wonder not , sovran Mistress , if perhaps Thou canst , who art sole wonder !
much less arm Thy looks , the Heaven of mildness , with disdain , Displeased that I approach thee thus , and gaze Insatiate ; I thus single ; nor have feared Thy awful brow , more awful thus retired .
Fairest resemblance of thy Maker fair , Thee all things living gaze on , all things thine By gift , and thy celestial beauty adore With ravishment beheld !
there best beheld , Where universally admired ; but here In this enclosure wild , these beasts among , Beholders rude , and shallow to discern Half what in thee is fair , one man except , Who sees thee ?
and what is one ?
who should be seen A Goddess among Gods , adored and served By Angels numberless , thy daily train .
So glozed the Tempter , and his proem tuned : Into the heart of Eve his words made way , Though at the voice much marvelling ; at length , Not unamazed , she thus in answer spake .
What may this mean ?
language of man pronounced By tongue of brute , and human sense expressed ?
The first , at least , of these I thought denied To beasts ; whom God , on their creation - day , Created mute to all articulate sound : The latter I demur ; for in their looks Much reason , and in their actions , oft appears .
Thee , Serpent , subtlest beast of all the field I knew , but not with human voice endued ; Redouble then this miracle , and say , How camest thou speakable of mute , and how To me so friendly grown above the rest Of brutal kind , that daily are in sight ?
Say , for such wonder claims attention due .
To whom the guileful Tempter thus replied .
Empress of this fair world , resplendent Eve !
Easy to me it is to tell thee all What thou commandest ; and right thou shouldst be obeyed : I was at first as other beasts that graze The trodden herb , of abject thoughts and low , As was my food ; nor aught but food discerned Or sex , and apprehended nothing high : Till , on a day roving the field , I chanced A goodly tree far distant to behold Loaden with fruit of fairest colours mixed , Ruddy and gold : I nearer drew to gaze ; When from the boughs a savoury odour blown , Grateful to appetite , more pleased my sense Than smell of sweetest fennel , or the teats Of ewe or goat dropping with milk at even , Unsucked of lamb or kid , that tend their play .
To satisfy the sharp desire I had Of tasting those fair apples , I resolved Not to defer ; hunger and thirst at once , Powerful persuaders , quickened at the scent Of that alluring fruit , urged me so keen .
About the mossy trunk I wound me soon ; For , high from ground , the branches would require Thy utmost reach or Adam ' s : Round the tree All other beasts that saw , with like desire Longing and envying stood , but could not reach .
Amid the tree now got , where plenty hung Tempting so nigh , to pluck and eat my fill I spared not ; for , such pleasure till that hour , At feed or fountain , never had I found .
Sated at length , ere long I might perceive Strange alteration in me , to degree Of reason in my inward powers ; and speech Wanted not long ; though to this shape retained .
Thenceforth to speculations high or deep I turned my thoughts , and with capacious mind Considered all things visible in Heaven , Or Earth , or Middle ; all things fair and good : But all that fair and good in thy divine Semblance , and in thy beauty ' s heavenly ray , United I beheld ; no fair to thine Equivalent or second !
which compelled Me thus , though importune perhaps , to come And gaze , and worship thee of right declared Sovran of creatures , universal Dame !
So talked the spirited sly Snake ; and Eve , Yet more amazed , unwary thus replied .
Serpent , thy overpraising leaves in doubt The virtue of that fruit , in thee first proved : But say , where grows the tree ?
from hence how far ?
For many are the trees of God that grow In Paradise , and various , yet unknown To us ; in such abundance lies our choice , As leaves a greater store of fruit untouched , Still hanging incorruptible , till men Grow up to their provision , and more hands Help to disburden Nature of her birth .
To whom the wily Adder , blithe and glad .
Empress , the way is ready , and not long ; Beyond a row of myrtles , on a flat , Fast by a fountain , one small thicket past Of blowing myrrh and balm : if thou accept My conduct , I can bring thee thither soon Lead then , said Eve .
He , leading , swiftly rolled In tangles , and made intricate seem straight , To mischief swift .
Hope elevates , and joy Brightens his crest ; as when a wandering fire , Compact of unctuous vapour , which the night Condenses , and the cold environs round , Kindled through agitation to a flame , Which oft , they say , some evil Spirit attends , Hovering and blazing with delusive light , Misleads the amazed night - wanderer from his way To bogs and mires , and oft through pond or pool ; There swallowed up and lost , from succour far .
So glistered the dire Snake , and into fraud Led Eve , our credulous mother , to the tree Of prohibition , root of all our woe ; Which when she saw , thus to her guide she spake .
Serpent , we might have spared our coming hither , Fruitless to me , though fruit be here to excess , The credit of whose virtue rest with thee ; Wonderous indeed , if cause of such effects .
But of this tree we may not taste nor touch ; God so commanded , and left that command Sole daughter of his voice ; the rest , we live Law to ourselves ; our reason is our law .
To whom the Tempter guilefully replied .
Indeed !
hath God then said that of the fruit Of all these garden - trees ye shall not eat , Yet Lords declared of all in earth or air $?
To whom thus Eve , yet sinless .
Of the fruit Of each tree in the garden we may eat ; But of the fruit of this fair tree amidst The garden , God hath said , Ye shall not eat Thereof , nor shall ye touch it , lest ye die .
She scarce had said , though brief , when now more bold The Tempter , but with show of zeal and love To Man , and indignation at his wrong , New part puts on ; and , as to passion moved , Fluctuates disturbed , yet comely and in act Raised , as of some great matter to begin .
As when of old some orator renowned , In Athens or free Rome , where eloquence Flourished , since mute !
to some great cause addressed , Stood in himself collected ; while each part , Motion , each act , won audience ere the tongue ; Sometimes in highth began , as no delay Of preface brooking , through his zeal of right : So standing , moving , or to highth up grown , The Tempter , all impassioned , thus began .
O sacred , wise , and wisdom - giving Plant , Mother of science !
now I feel thy power Within me clear ; not only to discern Things in their causes , but to trace the ways Of highest agents , deemed however wise .
Queen of this universe !
do not believe Those rigid threats of death : ye shall not die : How should you ?
by the fruit ?
it gives you life To knowledge ; by the threatener ?
look on me , Me , who have touched and tasted ; yet both live , And life more perfect have attained than Fate Meant me , by venturing higher than my lot .
Shall that be shut to Man , which to the Beast Is open ?
or will God incense his ire For such a petty trespass ?
and not praise Rather your dauntless virtue , whom the pain Of death denounced , whatever thing death be , Deterred not from achieving what might lead To happier life , knowledge of good and evil ; Of good , how just ?
of evil , if what is evil Be real , why not known , since easier shunned ?
God therefore cannot hurt ye , and be just ; Not just , not God ; not feared then , nor obeyed : Your fear itself of death removes the fear .
Why then was this forbid ?
Why , but to awe ; Why , but to keep ye low and ignorant , His worshippers ?
He knows that in the day Ye eat thereof , your eyes that seem so clear , Yet are but dim , shall perfectly be then Opened and cleared , and ye shall be as Gods , Knowing both good and evil , as they know .
That ye shall be as Gods , since I as Man , Internal Man , is but proportion meet ; I , of brute , human ; ye , of human , Gods .
So ye shall die perhaps , by putting off Human , to put on Gods ; death to be wished , Though threatened , which no worse than this can bring .
And what are Gods , that Man may not become As they , participating God - like food ?
The Gods are first , and that advantage use On our belief , that all from them proceeds : I question it ; for this fair earth I see , Warmed by the sun , producing every kind ; Them , nothing : if they all things , who enclosed Knowledge of good and evil in this tree , That whoso eats thereof , forthwith attains Wisdom without their leave ?
and wherein lies The offence , that Man should thus attain to know ?
What can your knowledge hurt him , or this tree Impart against his will , if all be his ?
Or is it envy ?
and can envy dwell In heavenly breasts ?
These , these , and many more Causes import your need of this fair fruit .
Goddess humane , reach then , and freely taste !
He ended ; and his words , replete with guile , Into her heart too easy entrance won : Fixed on the fruit she gazed , which to behold Might tempt alone ; and in her ears the sound Yet rung of his persuasive words , impregned With reason , to her seeming , and with truth : Mean while the hour of noon drew on , and waked An eager appetite , raised by the smell So savoury of that fruit , which with desire , Inclinable now grown to touch or taste , Solicited her longing eye ; yet first Pausing a while , thus to herself she mused .
Great are thy virtues , doubtless , best of fruits , Though kept from man , and worthy to be admired ; Whose taste , too long forborn , at first assay Gave elocution to the mute , and taught The tongue not made for speech to speak thy praise : Thy praise he also , who forbids thy use , Conceals not from us , naming thee the tree Of knowledge , knowledge both of good and evil ; Forbids us then to taste !
but his forbidding Commends thee more , while it infers the good By thee communicated , and our want : For good unknown sure is not had ; or , had And yet unknown , is as not had at all .
In plain then , what forbids he but to know , Forbids us good , forbids us to be wise ?
Such prohibitions bind not .
But , if death Bind us with after - bands , what profits then Our inward freedom ?
In the day we eat Of this fair fruit , our doom is , we shall die !
How dies the Serpent ?
he hath eaten and lives , And knows , and speaks , and reasons , and discerns , Irrational till then .
For us alone Was death invented ?
or to us denied This intellectual food , for beasts reserved ?
For beasts it seems : yet that one beast which first Hath tasted envies not , but brings with joy The good befallen him , author unsuspect , Friendly to man , far from deceit or guile .
What fear I then ?
rather , what know to fear Under this ignorance of good and evil , Of God or death , of law or penalty ?
Here grows the cure of all , this fruit divine , Fair to the eye , inviting to the taste , Of virtue to make wise : What hinders then To reach , and feed at once both body and mind ?
So saying , her rash hand in evil hour Forth reaching to the fruit , she plucked , she eat !
Earth felt the wound ; and Nature from her seat , Sighing through all her works , gave signs of woe , That all was lost .
Back to the thicket slunk The guilty Serpent ; and well might ; for Eve , Intent now wholly on her taste , nought else Regarded ; such delight till then , as seemed , In fruit she never tasted , whether true Or fancied so , through expectation high Of knowledge ; not was Godhead from her thought .
Greedily she ingorged without restraint , And knew not eating death : Satiate at length , And hightened as with wine , jocund and boon , Thus to herself she pleasingly began .
O sovran , virtuous , precious of all trees In Paradise !
of operation blest To sapience , hitherto obscured , infamed .
And thy fair fruit let hang , as to no end Created ; but henceforth my early care , Not without song , each morning , and due praise , Shall tend thee , and the fertile burden ease Of thy full branches offered free to all ; Till , dieted by thee , I grow mature In knowledge , as the Gods , who all things know ; Though others envy what they cannot give : For , had the gift been theirs , it had not here Thus grown .
Experience , next , to thee I owe , Best guide ; not following thee , I had remained In ignorance ; thou openest wisdom ' s way , And givest access , though secret she retire .
And I perhaps am secret : Heaven is high , High , and remote to see from thence distinct Each thing on Earth ; and other care perhaps May have diverted from continual watch Our great Forbidder , safe with all his spies About him .
But to Adam in what sort Shall I appear ?
shall I to him make known As yet my change , and give him to partake Full happiness with me , or rather not , But keeps the odds of knowledge in my power Without copartner ?
so to add what wants In female sex , the more to draw his love , And render me more equal ; and perhaps , A thing not undesirable , sometime Superiour ; for , inferiour , who is free This may be well : But what if God have seen , And death ensue ?
then I shall be no more !
And Adam , wedded to another Eve , Shall live with her enjoying , I extinct ; A death to think !
Confirmed then I resolve , Adam shall share with me in bliss or woe : So dear I love him , that with him all deaths I could endure , without him live no life .
So saying , from the tree her step she turned ; But first low reverence done , as to the Power That dwelt within , whose presence had infused Into the plant sciential sap , derived From nectar , drink of Gods .
Adam the while , Waiting desirous her return , had wove Of choicest flowers a garland , to adorn Her tresses , and her rural labours crown ; As reapers oft are wont their harvest - queen .
Great joy he promised to his thoughts , and new Solace in her return , so long delayed : Yet oft his heart , divine of something ill , Misgave him ; he the faltering measure felt ; And forth to meet her went , the way she took That morn when first they parted : by the tree Of knowledge he must pass ; there he her met , Scarce from the tree returning ; in her hand A bough of fairest fruit , that downy smiled , New gathered , and ambrosial smell diffused .
To him she hasted ; in her face excuse Came prologue , and apology too prompt ; Which , with bland words at will , she thus addressed .
Hast thou not wondered , Adam , at my stay ?
Thee I have missed , and thought it long , deprived Thy presence ; agony of love till now Not felt , nor shall be twice ; for never more Mean I to try , what rash untried I sought , The pain of absence from thy sight .
But strange Hath been the cause , and wonderful to hear : This tree is not , as we are told , a tree Of danger tasted , nor to evil unknown Opening the way , but of divine effect To open eyes , and make them Gods who taste ; And hath been tasted such : The serpent wise , Or not restrained as we , or not obeying , Hath eaten of the fruit ; and is become , Not dead , as we are threatened , but thenceforth Endued with human voice and human sense , Reasoning to admiration ; and with me Persuasively hath so prevailed , that I Have also tasted , and have also found The effects to correspond ; opener mine eyes , Dim erst , dilated spirits , ampler heart , And growing up to Godhead ; which for thee Chiefly I sought , without thee can despise .
For bliss , as thou hast part , to me is bliss ; Tedious , unshared with thee , and odious soon .
Thou therefore also taste , that equal lot May join us , equal joy , as equal love ; Lest , thou not tasting , different degree Disjoin us , and I then too late renounce Deity for thee , when Fate will not permit .
Thus Eve with countenance blithe her story told ; But in her cheek distemper flushing glowed .
On the other side Adam , soon as he heard The fatal trespass done by Eve , amazed , Astonied stood and blank , while horrour chill Ran through his veins , and all his joints relaxed ; From his slack hand the garland wreathed for Eve Down dropt , and all the faded roses shed : Speechless he stood and pale , till thus at length First to himself he inward silence broke .
O fairest of Creation , last and best Of all God ' s works , Creature in whom excelled Whatever can to sight or thought be formed , Holy , divine , good , amiable , or sweet !
How art thou lost !
how on a sudden lost , Defaced , deflowered , and now to death devote !
Rather , how hast thou yielded to transgress The strict forbiddance , how to violate The sacred fruit forbidden !
Some cursed fraud Of enemy hath beguiled thee , yet unknown , And me with thee hath ruined ; for with thee Certain my resolution is to die : How can I live without thee !
how forego Thy sweet converse , and love so dearly joined , To live again in these wild woods forlorn !
Should God create another Eve , and I Another rib afford , yet loss of thee Would never from my heart : no , no ! I feel The link of Nature draw me : flesh of flesh , Bone of my bone thou art , and from thy state Mine never shall be parted , bliss or woe .
So having said , as one from sad dismay Recomforted , and after thoughts disturbed Submitting to what seemed remediless , Thus in calm mood his words to Eve he turned .
Bold deed thou hast presumed , adventurous Eve , And peril great provoked , who thus hast dared , Had it been only coveting to eye That sacred fruit , sacred to abstinence , Much more to taste it under ban to touch .
But past who can recall , or done undo ?
Not God Omnipotent , nor Fate ; yet so Perhaps thou shalt not die , perhaps the fact Is not so heinous now , foretasted fruit , Profaned first by the serpent , by him first Made common , and unhallowed , ere our taste ; Nor yet on him found deadly ; yet he lives ; Lives , as thou saidst , and gains to live , as Man , Higher degree of life ; inducement strong To us , as likely tasting to attain Proportional ascent ; which cannot be But to be Gods , or Angels , demi - Gods .
Nor can I think that God , Creator wise , Though threatening , will in earnest so destroy Us his prime creatures , dignified so high , Set over all his works ; which in our fall , For us created , needs with us must fail , Dependant made ; so God shall uncreate , Be frustrate , do , undo , and labour lose ; Not well conceived of God , who , though his power Creation could repeat , yet would be loth Us to abolish , lest the Adversary Triumph , and say ; " Fickle their state whom God " Most favours ; who can please him long ?
Me first " He ruined , now Mankind ; whom will he next ?"
Matter of scorn , not to be given the Foe .
However I with thee have fixed my lot , Certain to undergo like doom : If death Consort with thee , death is to me as life ; So forcible within my heart I feel The bond of Nature draw me to my own ; My own in thee , for what thou art is mine ; Our state cannot be severed ; we are one , One flesh ; to lose thee were to lose myself .
So Adam ; and thus Eve to him replied .
O glorious trial of exceeding love , Illustrious evidence , example high !
Engaging me to emulate ; but , short Of thy perfection , how shall I attain , Adam , from whose dear side I boast me sprung , And gladly of our union hear thee speak , One heart , one soul in both ; whereof good proof This day affords , declaring thee resolved , Rather than death , or aught than death more dread , Shall separate us , linked in love so dear , To undergo with me one guilt , one crime , If any be , of tasting this fair fruit ; Whose virtue for of good still good proceeds , Direct , or by occasion , hath presented This happy trial of thy love , which else So eminently never had been known ?
Were it I thought death menaced would ensue This my attempt , I would sustain alone The worst , and not persuade thee , rather die Deserted , than oblige thee with a fact Pernicious to thy peace ; chiefly assured Remarkably so late of thy so true , So faithful , love unequalled : but I feel Far otherwise the event ; not death , but life Augmented , opened eyes , new hopes , new joys , Taste so divine , that what of sweet before Hath touched my sense , flat seems to this , and harsh .
On my experience , Adam , freely taste , And fear of death deliver to the winds .
So saying , she embraced him , and for joy Tenderly wept ; much won , that he his love Had so ennobled , as of choice to incur Divine displeasure for her sake , or death .
In recompence for such compliance bad Such recompence best merits from the bough She gave him of that fair enticing fruit With liberal hand : he scrupled not to eat , Against his better knowledge ; not deceived , But fondly overcome with female charm .
Earth trembled from her entrails , as again In pangs ; and Nature gave a second groan ; Sky loured ; and , muttering thunder , some sad drops Wept at completing of the mortal sin Original : while Adam took no thought , Eating his fill ; nor Eve to iterate Her former trespass feared , the more to sooth Him with her loved society ; that now , As with new wine intoxicated both , They swim in mirth , and fancy that they feel Divinity within them breeding wings , Wherewith to scorn the earth : But that false fruit Far other operation first displayed , Carnal desire inflaming ; he on Eve Began to cast lascivious eyes ; she him As wantonly repaid ; in lust they burn : Till Adam thus ' gan Eve to dalliance move .
Eve , now I see thou art exact of taste , And elegant , of sapience no small part ; Since to each meaning savour we apply , And palate call judicious ; I the praise Yield thee , so well this day thou hast purveyed .
Much pleasure we have lost , while we abstained From this delightful fruit , nor known till now True relish , tasting ; if such pleasure be In things to us forbidden , it might be wished , For this one tree had been forbidden ten .
But come , so well refreshed , now let us play , As meet is , after such delicious fare ; For never did thy beauty , since the day I saw thee first and wedded thee , adorned With all perfections , so inflame my sense With ardour to enjoy thee , fairer now Than ever ; bounty of this virtuous tree !
So said he , and forbore not glance or toy Of amorous intent ; well understood Of Eve , whose eye darted contagious fire .
Her hand he seised ; and to a shady bank , Thick over - head with verdant roof imbowered , He led her nothing loth ; flowers were the couch , Pansies , and violets , and asphodel , And hyacinth ; Earth ' s freshest softest lap .
There they their fill of love and love ' s disport Took largely , of their mutual guilt the seal , The solace of their sin ; till dewy sleep Oppressed them , wearied with their amorous play , Soon as the force of that fallacious fruit , That with exhilarating vapour bland About their spirits had played , and inmost powers Made err , was now exhaled ; and grosser sleep , Bred of unkindly fumes , with conscious dreams Incumbered , now had left them ; up they rose As from unrest ; and , each the other viewing , Soon found their eyes how opened , and their minds How darkened ; innocence , that as a veil Had shadowed them from knowing ill , was gone ; Just confidence , and native righteousness , And honour , from about them , naked left To guilty Shame ; he covered , but his robe Uncovered more .
So rose the Danite strong , Herculean Samson , from the harlot - lap Of Philistean Dalilah , and waked Shorn of his strength .
They destitute and bare Of all their virtue : Silent , and in face Confounded , long they sat , as strucken mute : Till Adam , though not less than Eve abashed , At length gave utterance to these words constrained .
O Eve , in evil hour thou didst give ear To that false worm , of whomsoever taught To counterfeit Man ' s voice ; true in our fall , False in our promised rising ; since our eyes Opened we find indeed , and find we know Both good and evil ; good lost , and evil got ; Bad fruit of knowledge , if this be to know ; Which leaves us naked thus , of honour void , Of innocence , of faith , of purity , Our wonted ornaments now soiled and stained , And in our faces evident the signs Of foul concupiscence ; whence evil store ; Even shame , the last of evils ; of the first Be sure then .-- How shall I behold the face Henceforth of God or Angel , erst with joy And rapture so oft beheld ?
Those heavenly shapes Will dazzle now this earthly with their blaze Insufferably bright .
O !
might I here In solitude live savage ; in some glade Obscured , where highest woods , impenetrable To star or sun - light , spread their umbrage broad And brown as evening : Cover me , ye Pines !
Ye Cedars , with innumerable boughs Hide me , where I may never see them more !-- But let us now , as in bad plight , devise What best may for the present serve to hide The parts of each from other , that seem most To shame obnoxious , and unseemliest seen ; Some tree , whose broad smooth leaves together sewed , And girded on our loins , may cover round Those middle parts ; that this new comer , Shame , There sit not , and reproach us as unclean .
So counselled he , and both together went Into the thickest wood ; there soon they chose The fig - tree ; not that kind for fruit renowned , But such as at this day , to Indians known , In Malabar or Decan spreads her arms Branching so broad and long , that in the ground The bended twigs take root , and daughters grow About the mother tree , a pillared shade High over - arched , and echoing walks between : There oft the Indian herdsman , shunning heat , Shelters in cool , and tends his pasturing herds At loop - holes cut through thickest shade : Those leaves They gathered , broad as Amazonian targe ; And , with what skill they had , together sewed , To gird their waist ; vain covering , if to hide Their guilt and dreaded shame !
O , how unlike To that first naked glory !
Such of late Columbus found the American , so girt With feathered cincture ; naked else , and wild Among the trees on isles and woody shores .
Thus fenced , and , as they thought , their shame in part Covered , but not at rest or ease of mind , They sat them down to weep ; nor only tears Rained at their eyes , but high winds worse within Began to rise , high passions , anger , hate , Mistrust , suspicion , discord ; and shook sore Their inward state of mind , calm region once And full of peace , now tost and turbulent : For Understanding ruled not , and the Will Heard not her lore ; both in subjection now To sensual Appetite , who from beneath Usurping over sovran Reason claimed Superiour sway : From thus distempered breast , Adam , estranged in look and altered style , Speech intermitted thus to Eve renewed .
Would thou hadst hearkened to my words , and staid With me , as I besought thee , when that strange Desire of wandering , this unhappy morn , I know not whence possessed thee ; we had then Remained still happy ; not , as now , despoiled Of all our good ; shamed , naked , miserable !
Let none henceforth seek needless cause to approve The faith they owe ; when earnestly they seek Such proof , conclude , they then begin to fail .
To whom , soon moved with touch of blame , thus Eve .
What words have passed thy lips , Adam severe !
Imputest thou that to my default , or will Of wandering , as thou callest it , which who knows But might as ill have happened thou being by , Or to thyself perhaps ?
Hadst thou been there , Or here the attempt , thou couldst not have discerned Fraud in the Serpent , speaking as he spake ; No ground of enmity between us known , Why he should mean me ill , or seek to harm .
Was I to have never parted from thy side ?
As good have grown there still a lifeless rib .
Being as I am , why didst not thou , the head , Command me absolutely not to go , Going into such danger , as thou saidst ?
Too facile then , thou didst not much gainsay ; Nay , didst permit , approve , and fair dismiss .
Hadst thou been firm and fixed in thy dissent , Neither had I transgressed , nor thou with me .
To whom , then first incensed , Adam replied .
Is this the love , is this the recompence Of mine to thee , ingrateful Eve !
expressed Immutable , when thou wert lost , not I ; Who might have lived , and joyed immortal bliss , Yet willingly chose rather death with thee ?
And am I now upbraided as the cause Of thy transgressing ?
Not enough severe , It seems , in thy restraint : What could I more I warned thee , I admonished thee , foretold The danger , and the lurking enemy That lay in wait ; beyond this , had been force ; And force upon free will hath here no place .
But confidence then bore thee on ; secure Either to meet no danger , or to find Matter of glorious trial ; and perhaps I also erred , in overmuch admiring What seemed in thee so perfect , that I thought No evil durst attempt thee ; but I rue The errour now , which is become my crime , And thou the accuser .
Thus it shall befall Him , who , to worth in women overtrusting , Lets her will rule : restraint she will not brook ; And , left to herself , if evil thence ensue , She first his weak indulgence will accuse .
Thus they in mutual accusation spent The fruitless hours , but neither self - condemning ; And of their vain contest appeared no end .
Book X
Mean while the heinous and despiteful act Of Satan , done in Paradise ; and how He , in the serpent , had perverted Eve , Her husband she , to taste the fatal fruit , Was known in Heaven ; for what can ' scape the eye Of God all - seeing , or deceive his heart Omniscient ?
who , in all things wise and just , Hindered not Satan to attempt the mind Of Man , with strength entire and free will armed , Complete to have discovered and repulsed Whatever wiles of foe or seeming friend .
For still they knew , and ought to have still remembered , The high injunction , not to taste that fruit , Whoever tempted ; which they not obeying , ( Incurred what could they less ?)
the penalty ; And , manifold in sin , deserved to fall .
Up into Heaven from Paradise in haste The angelick guards ascended , mute , and sad , For Man ; for of his state by this they knew , Much wondering how the subtle Fiend had stolen Entrance unseen .
Soon as the unwelcome news From Earth arrived at Heaven - gate , displeased All were who heard ; dim sadness did not spare That time celestial visages , yet , mixed With pity , violated not their bliss .
About the new - arrived , in multitudes The ethereal people ran , to hear and know How all befel : They towards the throne supreme , Accountable , made haste , to make appear , With righteous plea , their utmost vigilance And easily approved ; when the Most High Eternal Father , from his secret cloud , Amidst in thunder uttered thus his voice .
Assembled Angels , and ye Powers returned From unsuccessful charge ; be not dismayed , Nor troubled at these tidings from the earth , Which your sincerest care could not prevent ; Foretold so lately what would come to pass , When first this tempter crossed the gulf from Hell .
I told ye then he should prevail , and speed On his bad errand ; Man should be seduced , And flattered out of all , believing lies Against his Maker ; no decree of mine Concurring to necessitate his fall , Or touch with lightest moment of impulse His free will , to her own inclining left In even scale .
But fallen he is ; and now What rests , but that the mortal sentence pass On his transgression ,-- death denounced that day ?
Which he presumes already vain and void , Because not yet inflicted , as he feared , By some immediate stroke ; but soon shall find Forbearance no acquittance , ere day end .
Justice shall not return as bounty scorned .
But whom send I to judge them ?
whom but thee , Vicegerent Son ?
To thee I have transferred All judgement , whether in Heaven , or Earth , or Hell .
Easy it may be seen that I intend Mercy colleague with justice , sending thee Man ' s friend , his Mediator , his designed Both ransom and Redeemer voluntary , And destined Man himself to judge Man fallen .
So spake the Father ; and , unfolding bright Toward the right hand his glory , on the Son Blazed forth unclouded Deity : He full Resplendent all his Father manifest Expressed , and thus divinely answered mild .
Father Eternal , thine is to decree ; Mine , both in Heaven and Earth , to do thy will Supreme ; that thou in me , thy Son beloved , Mayest ever rest well pleased .
I go to judge On earth these thy transgressours ; but thou knowest , Whoever judged , the worst on me must light , When time shall be ; for so I undertook Before thee ; and , not repenting , this obtain Of right , that I may mitigate their doom On me derived ; yet I shall temper so Justice with mercy , as may illustrate most Them fully satisfied , and thee appease .
Attendance none shall need , nor train , where none Are to behold the judgement , but the judged , Those two ; the third best absent is condemned , Convict by flight , and rebel to all law : Conviction to the serpent none belongs .
Thus saying , from his radiant seat he rose Of high collateral glory : Him Thrones , and Powers , Princedoms , and Dominations ministrant , Accompanied to Heaven - gate ; from whence Eden , and all the coast , in prospect lay .
Down he descended straight ; the speed of Gods Time counts not , though with swiftest minutes winged .
Now was the sun in western cadence low From noon , and gentle airs , due at their hour , To fan the earth now waked , and usher in The evening cool ; when he , from wrath more cool , Came the mild Judge , and Intercessour both , To sentence Man : The voice of God they heard Now walking in the garden , by soft winds Brought to their ears , while day declined ; they heard , And from his presence hid themselves among The thickest trees , both man and wife ; till God , Approaching , thus to Adam called aloud .
Where art thou , Adam , wont with joy to meet My coming seen far off ?
I miss thee here , Not pleased , thus entertained with solitude , Where obvious duty ere while appeared unsought : Or come I less conspicuous , or what change Absents thee , or what chance detains ?-- Come forth !
He came ; and with him Eve , more loth , though first To offend ; discountenanced both , and discomposed ; Love was not in their looks , either to God , Or to each other ; but apparent guilt , And shame , and perturbation , and despair , Anger , and obstinacy , and hate , and guile .
Whence Adam , faltering long , thus answered brief .
I heard thee in the garden , and of thy voice Afraid , being naked , hid myself .
To whom The gracious Judge without revile replied .
My voice thou oft hast heard , and hast not feared , But still rejoiced ; how is it now become So dreadful to thee ?
That thou art naked , who Hath told thee ?
Hast thou eaten of the tree , Whereof I gave thee charge thou shouldst not eat ?
To whom thus Adam sore beset replied .
O Heaven !
in evil strait this day I stand Before my Judge ; either to undergo Myself the total crime , or to accuse My other self , the partner of my life ; Whose failing , while her faith to me remains , I should conceal , and not expose to blame By my complaint : but strict necessity Subdues me , and calamitous constraint ; Lest on my head both sin and punishment , However insupportable , be all Devolved ; though should I hold my peace , yet thou Wouldst easily detect what I conceal .-- This Woman , whom thou madest to be my help , And gavest me as thy perfect gift , so good , So fit , so acceptable , so divine , That from her hand I could suspect no ill , And what she did , whatever in itself , Her doing seemed to justify the deed ; She gave me of the tree , and I did eat .
To whom the Sovran Presence thus replied .
Was she thy God , that her thou didst obey Before his voice ?
or was she made thy guide , Superiour , or but equal , that to her Thou didst resign thy manhood , and the place Wherein God set thee above her made of thee , And for thee , whose perfection far excelled Hers in all real dignity ?
Adorned She was indeed , and lovely , to attract Thy love , not thy subjection ; and her gifts Were such , as under government well seemed ; Unseemly to bear rule ; which was thy part And person , hadst thou known thyself aright .
So having said , he thus to Eve in few .
Say , Woman , what is this which thou hast done ?
To whom sad Eve , with shame nigh overwhelmed , Confessing soon , yet not before her Judge Bold or loquacious , thus abashed replied .
The Serpent me beguiled , and I did eat .
Which when the Lord God heard , without delay To judgement he proceeded on the accused Serpent , though brute ; unable to transfer The guilt on him , who made him instrument Of mischief , and polluted from the end Of his creation ; justly then accursed , As vitiated in nature : More to know Concerned not Man , ( since he no further knew ) Nor altered his offence ; yet God at last To Satan first in sin his doom applied , Though in mysterious terms , judged as then best : And on the Serpent thus his curse let fall .
Because thou hast done this , thou art accursed Above all cattle , each beast of the field ; Upon thy belly groveling thou shalt go , And dust shalt eat all the days of thy life .
Between thee and the woman I will put Enmity , and between thine and her seed ; Her seed shall bruise thy head , thou bruise his heel .
So spake this oracle , then verified When Jesus , Son of Mary , second Eve , Saw Satan fall , like lightning , down from Heaven , Prince of the air ; then , rising from his grave Spoiled Principalities and Powers , triumphed In open show ; and , with ascension bright , Captivity led captive through the air , The realm itself of Satan , long usurped ; Whom he shall tread at last under our feet ; Even he , who now foretold his fatal bruise ; And to the Woman thus his sentence turned .
Thy sorrow I will greatly multiply By thy conception ; children thou shalt bring In sorrow forth ; and to thy husband ' s will Thine shall submit ; he over thee shall rule .
On Adam last thus judgement he pronounced .
Because thou hast hearkened to the voice of thy wife , And eaten of the tree , concerning which I charged thee , saying , Thou shalt not eat thereof : Cursed is the ground for thy sake ; thou in sorrow Shalt eat thereof , all the days of thy life ; Thorns also and thistles it shall bring thee forth Unbid ; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field ; In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread , Till thou return unto the ground ; for thou Out of the ground wast taken , know thy birth , For dust thou art , and shalt to dust return .
So judged he Man , both Judge and Saviour sent ; And the instant stroke of death , denounced that day , Removed far off ; then , pitying how they stood Before him naked to the air , that now Must suffer change , disdained not to begin Thenceforth the form of servant to assume ; As when he washed his servants feet ; so now , As father of his family , he clad Their nakedness with skins of beasts , or slain , Or as the snake with youthful coat repaid ; And thought not much to clothe his enemies ; Nor he their outward only with the skins Of beasts , but inward nakedness , much more .
Opprobrious , with his robe of righteousness , Arraying , covered from his Father ' s sight .
To him with swift ascent he up returned , Into his blissful bosom reassumed In glory , as of old ; to him appeased All , though all - knowing , what had passed with Man Recounted , mixing intercession sweet .
Mean while , ere thus was sinned and judged on Earth , Within the gates of Hell sat Sin and Death , In counterview within the gates , that now Stood open wide , belching outrageous flame Far into Chaos , since the Fiend passed through , Sin opening ; who thus now to Death began .
O Son , why sit we here each other viewing Idly , while Satan , our great author , thrives In other worlds , and happier seat provides For us , his offspring dear ?
It cannot be But that success attends him ; if mishap , Ere this he had returned , with fury driven By his avengers ; since no place like this Can fit his punishment , or their revenge .
Methinks I feel new strength within me rise , Wings growing , and dominion given me large Beyond this deep ; whatever draws me on , Or sympathy , or some connatural force , Powerful at greatest distance to unite , With secret amity , things of like kind , By secretest conveyance .
Thou , my shade Inseparable , must with me along ; For Death from Sin no power can separate .
But , lest the difficulty of passing back Stay his return perhaps over this gulf Impassable , impervious ; let us try Adventurous work , yet to thy power and mine Not unagreeable , to found a path Over this main from Hell to that new world , Where Satan now prevails ; a monument Of merit high to all the infernal host , Easing their passage hence , for intercourse , Or transmigration , as their lot shall lead .
Nor can I miss the way , so strongly drawn By this new - felt attraction and instinct .
Whom thus the meager Shadow answered soon .
Go , whither Fate , and inclination strong , Leads thee ; I shall not lag behind , nor err The way , thou leading ; such a scent I draw Of carnage , prey innumerable , and taste The savour of death from all things there that live : Nor shall I to the work thou enterprisest Be wanting , but afford thee equal aid .
So saying , with delight he snuffed the smell Of mortal change on earth .
As when a flock Of ravenous fowl , though many a league remote , Against the day of battle , to a field , Where armies lie encamped , come flying , lured With scent of living carcasses designed For death , the following day , in bloody fight : So scented the grim Feature , and upturned His nostril wide into the murky air ; Sagacious of his quarry from so far .
Then both from out Hell - gates , into the waste Wide anarchy of Chaos , damp and dark , Flew diverse ; and with power ( their power was great ) Hovering upon the waters , what they met Solid or slimy , as in raging sea Tost up and down , together crouded drove , From each side shoaling towards the mouth of Hell ; As when two polar winds , blowing adverse Upon the Cronian sea , together drive Mountains of ice , that stop the imagined way Beyond Petsora eastward , to the rich Cathaian coast .
The aggregated soil Death with his mace petrifick , cold and dry , As with a trident , smote ; and fixed as firm As Delos , floating once ; the rest his look Bound with Gorgonian rigour not to move ; And with Asphaltick slime , broad as the gate , Deep to the roots of Hell the gathered beach They fastened , and the mole immense wrought on Over the foaming deep high - arched , a bridge Of length prodigious , joining to the wall Immoveable of this now fenceless world , Forfeit to Death ; from hence a passage broad , Smooth , easy , inoffensive , down to Hell .
So , if great things to small may be compared , Xerxes , the liberty of Greece to yoke , From Susa , his Memnonian palace high , Came to the sea : and , over Hellespont Bridging his way , Europe with Asia joined , And scourged with many a stroke the indignant waves .
Now had they brought the work by wonderous art Pontifical , a ridge of pendant rock , Over the vexed abyss , following the track Of Satan to the self - same place where he First lighted from his wing , and landed safe From out of Chaos , to the outside bare Of this round world : With pins of adamant And chains they made all fast , too fast they made And durable !
And now in little space The confines met of empyrean Heaven , And of this World ; and , on the left hand , Hell With long reach interposed ; three several ways In sight , to each of these three places led .
And now their way to Earth they had descried , To Paradise first tending ; when , behold !
Satan , in likeness of an Angel bright , Betwixt the Centaur and the Scorpion steering His zenith , while the sun in Aries rose : Disguised he came ; but those his children dear Their parent soon discerned , though in disguise .
He , after Eve seduced , unminded slunk Into the wood fast by ; and , changing shape , To observe the sequel , saw his guileful act By Eve , though all unweeting , seconded Upon her husband ; saw their shame that sought Vain covertures ; but when he saw descend The Son of God to judge them , terrified He fled ; not hoping to escape , but shun The present ; fearing , guilty , what his wrath Might suddenly inflict ; that past , returned By night , and listening where the hapless pair Sat in their sad discourse , and various plaint , Thence gathered his own doom ; which understood Not instant , but of future time , with joy And tidings fraught , to Hell he now returned ; And at the brink of Chaos , near the foot Of this new wonderous pontifice , unhoped Met , who to meet him came , his offspring dear .
Great joy was at their meeting , and at sight Of that stupendious bridge his joy encreased .
Long he admiring stood , till Sin , his fair Enchanting daughter , thus the silence broke .
O Parent , these are thy magnifick deeds , Thy trophies !
which thou viewest as not thine own ; Thou art their author , and prime architect : For I no sooner in my heart divined , My heart , which by a secret harmony Still moves with thine , joined in connexion sweet , That thou on earth hadst prospered , which thy looks Now also evidence , but straight I felt , Though distant from thee worlds between , yet felt , That I must after thee , with this thy son ; Such fatal consequence unites us three !
Hell could no longer hold us in our bounds , Nor this unvoyageable gulf obscure Detain from following thy illustrious track .
Thou hast achieved our liberty , confined Within Hell - gates till now ; thou us impowered To fortify thus far , and overlay , With this portentous bridge , the dark abyss .
Thine now is all this world ; thy virtue hath won What thy hands builded not ; thy wisdom gained With odds what war hath lost , and fully avenged Our foil in Heaven ; here thou shalt monarch reign , There didst not ; there let him still victor sway , As battle hath adjudged ; from this new world Retiring , by his own doom alienated ; And henceforth monarchy with thee divide Of all things , parted by the empyreal bounds , His quadrature , from thy orbicular world ; Or try thee now more dangerous to his throne .
Whom thus the Prince of darkness answered glad .
Fair Daughter , and thou Son and Grandchild both ; High proof ye now have given to be the race Of Satan ( for I glory in the name , Antagonist of Heaven ' s Almighty King ,) Amply have merited of me , of all The infernal empire , that so near Heaven ' s door Triumphal with triumphal act have met , Mine , with this glorious work ; and made one realm , Hell and this world , one realm , one continent Of easy thorough - fare .
Therefore , while I Descend through darkness , on your road with ease , To my associate Powers , them to acquaint With these successes , and with them rejoice ; You two this way , among these numerous orbs , All yours , right down to Paradise descend ; There dwell , and reign in bliss ; thence on the earth Dominion exercise and in the air , Chiefly on Man , sole lord of all declared ; Him first make sure your thrall , and lastly kill .
My substitutes I send ye , and create Plenipotent on earth , of matchless might Issuing from me : on your joint vigour now My hold of this new kingdom all depends , Through Sin to Death exposed by my exploit .
If your joint power prevail , the affairs of Hell No detriment need fear ; go , and be strong !
So saying he dismissed them ; they with speed Their course through thickest constellations held , Spreading their bane ; the blasted stars looked wan , And planets , planet - struck , real eclipse Then suffered .
The other way Satan went down The causey to Hell - gate : On either side Disparted Chaos overbuilt exclaimed , And with rebounding surge the bars assailed , That scorned his indignation : Through the gate , Wide open and unguarded , Satan passed , And all about found desolate ; for those , Appointed to sit there , had left their charge , Flown to the upper world ; the rest were all Far to the inland retired , about the walls Of Pandemonium ; city and proud seat Of Lucifer , so by allusion called Of that bright star to Satan paragoned ; There kept their watch the legions , while the Grand In council sat , solicitous what chance Might intercept their emperour sent ; so he Departing gave command , and they observed .
As when the Tartar from his Russian foe , By Astracan , over the snowy plains , Retires ; or Bactrin Sophi , from the horns Of Turkish crescent , leaves all waste beyond The realm of Aladule , in his retreat To Tauris or Casbeen : So these , the late Heaven - banished host , left desart utmost Hell Many a dark league , reduced in careful watch Round their metropolis ; and now expecting Each hour their great adventurer , from the search Of foreign worlds : He through the midst unmarked , In show plebeian Angel militant Of lowest order , passed ; and from the door Of that Plutonian hall , invisible Ascended his high throne ; which , under state Of richest texture spread , at the upper end Was placed in regal lustre .
Down a while He sat , and round about him saw unseen : At last , as from a cloud , his fulgent head And shape star - bright appeared , or brighter ; clad With what permissive glory since his fall Was left him , or false glitter : All amazed At that so sudden blaze the Stygian throng Bent their aspect , and whom they wished beheld , Their mighty Chief returned : loud was the acclaim : Forth rushed in haste the great consulting peers , Raised from their dark Divan , and with like joy Congratulant approached him ; who with hand Silence , and with these words attention , won .
Thrones , Dominations , Princedoms , Virtues , Powers ; For in possession such , not only of right , I call ye , and declare ye now ; returned Successful beyond hope , to lead ye forth Triumphant out of this infernal pit Abominable , accursed , the house of woe , And dungeon of our tyrant : Now possess , As Lords , a spacious world , to our native Heaven Little inferiour , by my adventure hard With peril great achieved .
Long were to tell What I have done ; what suffered ; with what pain Voyaged th ' unreal , vast , unbounded deep Of horrible confusion ; over which By Sin and Death a broad way now is paved , To expedite your glorious march ; but I Toiled out my uncouth passage , forced to ride The untractable abyss , plunged in the womb Of unoriginal Night and Chaos wild ; That , jealous of their secrets , fiercely opposed My journey strange , with clamorous uproar Protesting Fate supreme ; thence how I found The new created world , which fame in Heaven Long had foretold , a fabrick wonderful Of absolute perfection !
therein Man Placed in a Paradise , by our exile Made happy : Him by fraud I have seduced From his Creator ; and , the more to encrease Your wonder , with an apple ; he , thereat Offended , worth your laughter !
hath given up Both his beloved Man , and all his world , To Sin and Death a prey , and so to us , Without our hazard , labour , or alarm ; To range in , and to dwell , and over Man To rule , as over all he should have ruled .
True is , me also he hath judged , or rather Me not , but the brute serpent in whose shape Man I deceived : that which to me belongs , Is enmity which he will put between Me and mankind ; I am to bruise his heel ; His seed , when is not set , shall bruise my head : A world who would not purchase with a bruise , Or much more grievous pain ?-- Ye have the account Of my performance : What remains , ye Gods , But up , and enter now into full bliss ?
So having said , a while he stood , expecting Their universal shout , and high applause , To fill his ear ; when , contrary , he hears On all sides , from innumerable tongues , A dismal universal hiss , the sound Of publick scorn ; he wondered , but not long Had leisure , wondering at himself now more , His visage drawn he felt to sharp and spare ; His arms clung to his ribs ; his legs entwining Each other , till supplanted down he fell A monstrous serpent on his belly prone , Reluctant , but in vain ; a greater power Now ruled him , punished in the shape he sinned , According to his doom : he would have spoke , But hiss for hiss returned with forked tongue To forked tongue ; for now were all transformed Alike , to serpents all , as accessories To his bold riot : Dreadful was the din Of hissing through the hall , thick swarming now With complicated monsters head and tail , Scorpion , and Asp , and Amphisbaena dire , Cerastes horned , Hydrus , and Elops drear , And Dipsas ; ( not so thick swarmed once the soil Bedropt with blood of Gorgon , or the isle Ophiusa ,) but still greatest he the midst , Now Dragon grown , larger than whom the sun Ingendered in the Pythian vale or slime , Huge Python , and his power no less he seemed Above the rest still to retain ; they all Him followed , issuing forth to the open field , Where all yet left of that revolted rout , Heaven - fallen , in station stood or just array ; Sublime with expectation when to see In triumph issuing forth their glorious Chief ; They saw , but other sight instead !
a croud Of ugly serpents ; horrour on them fell , And horrid sympathy ; for , what they saw , They felt themselves , now changing ; down their arms , Down fell both spear and shield ; down they as fast ; And the dire hiss renewed , and the dire form Catched , by contagion ; like in punishment , As in their crime .
Thus was the applause they meant , Turned to exploding hiss , triumph to shame Cast on themselves from their own mouths .
There stood A grove hard by , sprung up with this their change , His will who reigns above , to aggravate Their penance , laden with fair fruit , like that Which grew in Paradise , the bait of Eve Used by the Tempter : on that prospect strange Their earnest eyes they fixed , imagining For one forbidden tree a multitude Now risen , to work them further woe or shame ; Yet , parched with scalding thirst and hunger fierce , Though to delude them sent , could not abstain ; But on they rolled in heaps , and , up the trees Climbing , sat thicker than the snaky locks That curled Megaera : greedily they plucked The fruitage fair to sight , like that which grew Near that bituminous lake where Sodom flamed ; This more delusive , not the touch , but taste Deceived ; they , fondly thinking to allay Their appetite with gust , instead of fruit Chewed bitter ashes , which the offended taste With spattering noise rejected : oft they assayed , Hunger and thirst constraining ; drugged as oft , With hatefullest disrelish writhed their jaws , With soot and cinders filled ; so oft they fell Into the same illusion , not as Man Whom they triumphed once lapsed .
Thus were they plagued And worn with famine , long and ceaseless hiss , Till their lost shape , permitted , they resumed ; Yearly enjoined , some say , to undergo , This annual humbling certain numbered days , To dash their pride , and joy , for Man seduced .
However , some tradition they dispersed Among the Heathen , of their purchase got , And fabled how the Serpent , whom they called Ophion , with Eurynome , the wide -- Encroaching Eve perhaps , had first the rule Of high Olympus ; thence by Saturn driven And Ops , ere yet Dictaean Jove was born .
Mean while in Paradise the hellish pair Too soon arrived ; Sin , there in power before , Once actual ; now in body , and to dwell Habitual habitant ; behind her Death , Close following pace for pace , not mounted yet On his pale horse : to whom Sin thus began .
Second of Satan sprung , all - conquering Death !
What thinkest thou of our empire now , though earned With travel difficult , not better far Than still at Hell ' s dark threshold to have sat watch , Unnamed , undreaded , and thyself half starved ?
Whom thus the Sin - born monster answered soon .
To me , who with eternal famine pine , Alike is Hell , or Paradise , or Heaven ; There best , where most with ravine I may meet ; Which here , though plenteous , all too little seems To stuff this maw , this vast unhide - bound corps .
To whom the incestuous mother thus replied .
Thou therefore on these herbs , and fruits , and flowers , Feed first ; on each beast next , and fish , and fowl ; No homely morsels !
and , whatever thing The sithe of Time mows down , devour unspared ; Till I , in Man residing , through the race , His thoughts , his looks , words , actions , all infect ; And season him thy last and sweetest prey .
This said , they both betook them several ways , Both to destroy , or unimmortal make All kinds , and for destruction to mature Sooner or later ; which the Almighty seeing , From his transcendent seat the Saints among , To those bright Orders uttered thus his voice .
See , with what heat these dogs of Hell advance To waste and havock yonder world , which I So fair and good created ; and had still Kept in that state , had not the folly of Man Let in these wasteful furies , who impute Folly to me ; so doth the Prince of Hell And his adherents , that with so much ease I suffer them to enter and possess A place so heavenly ; and , conniving , seem To gratify my scornful enemies , That laugh , as if , transported with some fit Of passion , I to them had quitted all , At random yielded up to their misrule ; And know not that I called , and drew them thither , My Hell - hounds , to lick up the draff and filth Which Man ' s polluting sin with taint hath shed On what was pure ; til , crammed and gorged , nigh burst With sucked and glutted offal , at one sling Of thy victorious arm , well - pleasing Son , Both Sin , and Death , and yawning Grave , at last , Through Chaos hurled , obstruct the mouth of Hell For ever , and seal up his ravenous jaws .
Then Heaven and Earth renewed shall be made pure To sanctity , that shall receive no stain : Till then , the curse pronounced on both precedes .
He ended , and the heavenly audience loud Sung Halleluiah , as the sound of seas , Through multitude that sung : Just are thy ways , Righteous are thy decrees on all thy works ; Who can extenuate thee ?
Next , to the Son , Destined Restorer of mankind , by whom New Heaven and Earth shall to the ages rise , Or down from Heaven descend .-- Such was their song ; While the Creator , calling forth by name His mighty Angels , gave them several charge , As sorted best with present things .
The sun Had first his precept so to move , so shine , As might affect the earth with cold and heat Scarce tolerable ; and from the north to call Decrepit winter ; from the south to bring Solstitial summer ' s heat .
To the blanc moon Her office they prescribed ; to the other five Their planetary motions , and aspects , In sextile , square , and trine , and opposite , Of noxious efficacy , and when to join In synod unbenign ; and taught the fixed Their influence malignant when to shower , Which of them rising with the sun , or falling , Should prove tempestuous : To the winds they set Their corners , when with bluster to confound Sea , air , and shore ; the thunder when to roll With terrour through the dark aereal hall .
Some say , he bid his Angels turn ascanse The poles of earth , twice ten degrees and more , From the sun ' s axle ; they with labour pushed Oblique the centrick globe : Some say , the sun Was bid turn reins from the equinoctial road Like distant breadth to Taurus with the seven Atlantick Sisters , and the Spartan Twins , Up to the Tropick Crab : thence down amain By Leo , and the Virgin , and the Scales , As deep as Capricorn ; to bring in change Of seasons to each clime ; else had the spring Perpetual smiled on earth with vernant flowers , Equal in days and nights , except to those Beyond the polar circles ; to them day Had unbenighted shone , while the low sun , To recompense his distance , in their sight Had rounded still the horizon , and not known Or east or west ; which had forbid the snow From cold Estotiland , and south as far Beneath Magellan .
At that tasted fruit The sun , as from Thyestean banquet , turned His course intended ; else , how had the world Inhabited , though sinless , more than now , Avoided pinching cold and scorching heat ?
These changes in the Heavens , though slow , produced Like change on sea and land ; sideral blast , Vapour , and mist , and exhalation hot , Corrupt and pestilent : Now from the north Of Norumbega , and the Samoed shore , Bursting their brazen dungeon , armed with ice , And snow , and hail , and stormy gust and flaw , Boreas , and Caecias , and Argestes loud , And Thrascias , rend the woods , and seas upturn ; With adverse blast upturns them from the south Notus , and Afer black with thunderous clouds From Serraliona ; thwart of these , as fierce , Forth rush the Levant and the Ponent winds , Eurus and Zephyr , with their lateral noise , Sirocco and Libecchio .
Thus began Outrage from lifeless things ; but Discord first , Daughter of Sin , among the irrational Death introduced , through fierce antipathy : Beast now with beast ' gan war , and fowl with fowl , And fish with fish ; to graze the herb all leaving , Devoured each other ; nor stood much in awe Of Man , but fled him ; or , with countenance grim , Glared on him passing .
These were from without The growing miseries , which Adam saw Already in part , though hid in gloomiest shade , To sorrow abandoned , but worse felt within ; And , in a troubled sea of passion tost , Thus to disburden sought with sad complaint .
O miserable of happy !
Is this the end Of this new glorious world , and me so late The glory of that glory , who now become Accursed , of blessed ?
hide me from the face Of God , whom to behold was then my highth Of happiness !-- Yet well , if here would end The misery ; I deserved it , and would bear My own deservings ; but this will not serve : All that I eat or drink , or shall beget , Is propagated curse .
O voice , once heard Delightfully , Encrease and multiply ; Now death to hear !
for what can I encrease , Or multiply , but curses on my head ?
Who of all ages to succeed , but , feeling The evil on him brought by me , will curse My head ?
Ill fare our ancestor impure , For this we may thank Adam !
but his thanks Shall be the execration : so , besides Mine own that bide upon me , all from me Shall with a fierce reflux on me rebound ; On me , as on their natural center , light Heavy , though in their place .
O fleeting joys Of Paradise , dear bought with lasting woes !
Did I request thee , Maker , from my clay To mould me Man ?
did I solicit thee From darkness to promote me , or here place In this delicious garden ?
As my will Concurred not to my being , it were but right And equal to reduce me to my dust ; Desirous to resign and render back All I received ; unable to perform Thy terms too hard , by which I was to hold The good I sought not .
To the loss of that , Sufficient penalty , why hast thou added The sense of endless woes ?
Inexplicable Why am I mocked with death , and lengthened out To deathless pain ?
How gladly would I meet Mortality my sentence , and be earth Insensible !
How glad would lay me down As in my mother ' s lap !
There I should rest , And sleep secure ; his dreadful voice no more Would thunder in my ears ; no fear of worse To me , and to my offspring , would torment me With cruel expectation .
Yet one doubt Pursues me still , lest all I cannot die ; Lest that pure breath of life , the spirit of Man Which God inspired , cannot together perish With this corporeal clod ; then , in the grave , Or in some other dismal place , who knows But I shall die a living death ?
O thought Horrid , if true !
Yet why ?
It was but breath Of life that sinned ; what dies but what had life And sin ?
The body properly had neither , All of me then shall die : let this appease The doubt , since human reach no further knows .
For though the Lord of all be infinite , Is his wrath also ?
Be it , Man is not so , But mortal doomed .
How can he exercise Wrath without end on Man , whom death must end ?
Can he make deathless death ?
That were to make Strange contradiction , which to God himself Impossible is held ; as argument Of weakness , not of power .
Will he draw out , For anger ' s sake , finite to infinite , In punished Man , to satisfy his rigour , Satisfied never ?
That were to extend His sentence beyond dust and Nature ' s law ; By which all causes else , according still To the reception of their matter , act ; Not to the extent of their own sphere .
But say That death be not one stroke , as I supposed , Bereaving sense , but endless misery From this day onward ; which I feel begun Both in me , and without me ; and so last To perpetuity ;-- Ay me ! that fear Comes thundering back with dreadful revolution On my defenceless head ; both Death and I Am found eternal , and incorporate both ; Nor I on my part single ; in me all Posterity stands cursed : Fair patrimony That I must leave ye , Sons !
O , were I able To waste it all myself , and leave ye none !
So disinherited , how would you bless Me , now your curse !
Ah , why should all mankind , For one man ' s fault , thus guiltless be condemned , It guiltless ?
But from me what can proceed , But all corrupt ; both mind and will depraved Not to do only , but to will the same With me ?
How can they then acquitted stand In sight of God ?
Him , after all disputes , Forced I absolve : all my evasions vain , And reasonings , though through mazes , lead me still But to my own conviction : first and last On me , me only , as the source and spring Of all corruption , all the blame lights due ; So might the wrath !
Fond wish ! couldst thou support That burden , heavier than the earth to bear ; Than all the world much heavier , though divided With that bad Woman ?
Thus , what thou desirest , And what thou fearest , alike destroys all hope Of refuge , and concludes thee miserable Beyond all past example and future ; To Satan only like both crime and doom .
O Conscience !
into what abyss of fears And horrours hast thou driven me ; out of which I find no way , from deep to deeper plunged !
Thus Adam to himself lamented loud , Through the still night ; not now , as ere Man fell , Wholesome , and cool , and mild , but with black air Accompanied ; with damps , and dreadful gloom ; Which to his evil conscience represented All things with double terrour : On the ground Outstretched he lay , on the cold ground ; and oft Cursed his creation ; Death as oft accused Of tardy execution , since denounced The day of his offence .
Why comes not Death , Said he , with one thrice - acceptable stroke To end me ?
Shall Truth fail to keep her word , Justice Divine not hasten to be just ?
But Death comes not at call ; Justice Divine Mends not her slowest pace for prayers or cries , O woods , O fountains , hillocks , dales , and bowers !
With other echo late I taught your shades To answer , and resound far other song .-- Whom thus afflicted when sad Eve beheld , Desolate where she sat , approaching nigh , Soft words to his fierce passion she assayed : But her with stern regard he thus repelled .
Out of my sight , thou Serpent !
That name best Befits thee with him leagued , thyself as false And hateful ; nothing wants , but that thy shape , Like his , and colour serpentine , may show Thy inward fraud ; to warn all creatures from thee Henceforth ; lest that too heavenly form , pretended To hellish falshood , snare them !
But for thee I had persisted happy ; had not thy pride And wandering vanity , when least was safe , Rejected my forewarning , and disdained Not to be trusted ; longing to be seen , Though by the Devil himself ; him overweening To over - reach ; but , with the serpent meeting , Fooled and beguiled ; by him thou , I by thee To trust thee from my side ; imagined wise , Constant , mature , proof against all assaults ; And understood not all was but a show , Rather than solid virtue ; all but a rib Crooked by nature , bent , as now appears , More to the part sinister , from me drawn ; Well if thrown out , as supernumerary To my just number found .
O !
why did God , Creator wise , that peopled highest Heaven With Spirits masculine , create at last This novelty on earth , this fair defect Of nature , and not fill the world at once With Men , as Angels , without feminine ; Or find some other way to generate Mankind ?
This mischief had not been befallen , And more that shall befall ; innumerable Disturbances on earth through female snares , And strait conjunction with this sex : for either He never shall find out fit mate , but such As some misfortune brings him , or mistake ; Or whom he wishes most shall seldom gain Through her perverseness , but shall see her gained By a far worse ; or , if she love , withheld By parents ; or his happiest choice too late Shall meet , already linked and wedlock - bound To a fell adversary , his hate or shame : Which infinite calamity shall cause To human life , and houshold peace confound .
He added not , and from her turned ; but Eve , Not so repulsed , with tears that ceased not flowing And tresses all disordered , at his feet Fell humble ; and , embracing them , besought His peace , and thus proceeded in her plaint .
Forsake me not thus , Adam !
witness Heaven What love sincere , and reverence in my heart I bear thee , and unweeting have offended , Unhappily deceived !
Thy suppliant I beg , and clasp thy knees ; bereave me not , Whereon I live , thy gentle looks , thy aid , Thy counsel , in this uttermost distress , My only strength and stay : Forlorn of thee , Whither shall I betake me , where subsist ?
While yet we live , scarce one short hour perhaps , Between us two let there be peace ; both joining , As joined in injuries , one enmity Against a foe by doom express assigned us , That cruel Serpent : On me exercise not Thy hatred for this misery befallen ; On me already lost , me than thyself More miserable !
Both have sinned ; but thou Against God only ; I against God and thee ; And to the place of judgement will return , There with my cries importune Heaven ; that all The sentence , from thy head removed , may light On me , sole cause to thee of all this woe ; Me , me only , just object of his ire !
She ended weeping ; and her lowly plight , Immoveable , till peace obtained from fault Acknowledged and deplored , in Adam wrought Commiseration : Soon his heart relented Towards her , his life so late , and sole delight , Now at his feet submissive in distress ; Creature so fair his reconcilement seeking , His counsel , whom she had displeased , his aid : As one disarmed , his anger all he lost , And thus with peaceful words upraised her soon .
Unwary , and too desirous , as before , So now of what thou knowest not , who desirest The punishment all on thyself ; alas !
Bear thine own first , ill able to sustain His full wrath , whose thou feelest as yet least part , And my displeasure bearest so ill .
If prayers Could alter high decrees , I to that place Would speed before thee , and be louder heard , That on my head all might be visited ; Thy frailty and infirmer sex forgiven , To me committed , and by me exposed .
But rise ;-- let us no more contend , nor blame Each other , blamed enough elsewhere ; but strive In offices of love , how we may lighten Each other ' s burden , in our share of woe ; Since this day ' s death denounced , if aught I see , Will prove no sudden , but a slow - paced evil ; A long day ' s dying , to augment our pain ; And to our seed ( O hapless seed !)
derived .
To whom thus Eve , recovering heart , replied .
Adam , by sad experiment I know How little weight my words with thee can find , Found so erroneous ; thence by just event Found so unfortunate : Nevertheless , Restored by thee , vile as I am , to place Of new acceptance , hopeful to regain Thy love , the sole contentment of my heart Living or dying , from thee I will not hide What thoughts in my unquiet breast are risen , Tending to some relief of our extremes , Or end ; though sharp and sad , yet tolerable , As in our evils , and of easier choice .
If care of our descent perplex us most , Which must be born to certain woe , devoured By Death at last ; and miserable it is To be to others cause of misery , Our own begotten , and of our loins to bring Into this cursed world a woeful race , That after wretched life must be at last Food for so foul a monster ; in thy power It lies , yet ere conception to prevent The race unblest , to being yet unbegot .
Childless thou art , childless remain : so Death Shall be deceived his glut , and with us two Be forced to satisfy his ravenous maw .
But if thou judge it hard and difficult , Conversing , looking , loving , to abstain From love ' s due rights , nuptial embraces sweet ; And with desire to languish without hope , Before the present object languishing With like desire ; which would be misery And torment less than none of what we dread ; Then , both ourselves and seed at once to free From what we fear for both , let us make short , -- Let us seek Death ; -- or , he not found , supply With our own hands his office on ourselves : Why stand we longer shivering under fears , That show no end but death , and have the power , Of many ways to die the shortest choosing , Destruction with destruction to destroy ?
-- She ended here , or vehement despair Broke off the rest : so much of death her thoughts Had entertained , as dyed her cheeks with pale .
But Adam , with such counsel nothing swayed , To better hopes his more attentive mind Labouring had raised ; and thus to Eve replied .
Eve , thy contempt of life and pleasure seems To argue in thee something more sublime And excellent , than what thy mind contemns ; But self - destruction therefore sought , refutes That excellence thought in thee ; and implies , Not thy contempt , but anguish and regret For loss of life and pleasure overloved .
Or if thou covet death , as utmost end Of misery , so thinking to evade The penalty pronounced ; doubt not but God Hath wiselier armed his vengeful ire , than so To be forestalled ; much more I fear lest death , So snatched , will not exempt us from the pain We are by doom to pay ; rather , such acts Of contumacy will provoke the Highest To make death in us live : Then let us seek Some safer resolution , which methinks I have in view , calling to mind with heed Part of our sentence , that thy seed shall bruise The Serpent ' s head ; piteous amends !
unless Be meant , whom I conjecture , our grand foe , Satan ; who , in the serpent , hath contrived Against us this deceit : To crush his head Would be revenge indeed !
which will be lost By death brought on ourselves , or childless days Resolved , as thou proposest ; so our foe Shal ' scape his punishment ordained , and we Instead shall double ours upon our heads .
No more be mentioned then of violence Against ourselves ; and wilful barrenness , That cuts us off from hope ; and savours only Rancour and pride , impatience and despite , Reluctance against God and his just yoke Laid on our necks .
Remember with what mild And gracious temper he both heard , and judged , Without wrath or reviling ; we expected Immediate dissolution , which we thought Was meant by death that day ; when lo ! to thee Pains only in child - bearing were foretold , And bringing forth ; soon recompensed with joy , Fruit of thy womb : On me the curse aslope Glanced on the ground ; with labour I must earn My bread ; what harm ?
Idleness had been worse ; My labour will sustain me ; and , lest cold Or heat should injure us , his timely care Hath , unbesought , provided ; and his hands Clothed us unworthy , pitying while he judged ; How much more , if we pray him , will his ear Be open , and his heart to pity incline , And teach us further by what means to shun The inclement seasons , rain , ice , hail , and snow !
Which now the sky , with various face , begins To show us in this mountain ; while the winds Blow moist and keen , shattering the graceful locks Of these fair spreading trees ; which bids us seek Some better shroud , some better warmth to cherish Our limbs benummed , ere this diurnal star Leave cold the night , how we his gathered beams Reflected may with matter sere foment ; Or , by collision of two bodies , grind The air attrite to fire ; as late the clouds Justling , or pushed with winds , rude in their shock , Tine the slant lightning ; whose thwart flame , driven down Kindles the gummy bark of fir or pine ; And sends a comfortable heat from far , Which might supply the sun : Such fire to use , And what may else be remedy or cure To evils which our own misdeeds have wrought , He will instruct us praying , and of grace Beseeching him ; so as we need not fear To pass commodiously this life , sustained By him with many comforts , till we end In dust , our final rest and native home .
What better can we do , than , to the place Repairing where he judged us , prostrate fall Before him reverent ; and there confess Humbly our faults , and pardon beg ; with tears Watering the ground , and with our sighs the air Frequenting , sent from hearts contrite , in sign Of sorrow unfeigned , and humiliation meek
Book XI
Undoubtedly he will relent , and turn From his displeasure ; in whose look serene , When angry most he seemed and most severe , What else but favour , grace , and mercy , shone ?
So spake our father penitent ; nor Eve Felt less remorse : they , forthwith to the place Repairing where he judged them , prostrate fell Before him reverent ; and both confessed Humbly their faults , and pardon begged ; with tears Watering the ground , and with their sighs the air Frequenting , sent from hearts contrite , in sign Of sorrow unfeigned , and humiliation meek .
Thus they , in lowliest plight , repentant stood Praying ; for from the mercy - seat above Prevenient grace descending had removed The stony from their hearts , and made new flesh Regenerate grow instead ; that sighs now breathed Unutterable ; which the Spirit of prayer Inspired , and winged for Heaven with speedier flight Than loudest oratory : Yet their port Not of mean suitors ; nor important less Seemed their petition , than when the ancient pair In fables old , less ancient yet than these , Deucalion and chaste Pyrrha , to restore The race of mankind drowned , before the shrine Of Themis stood devout .
To Heaven their prayers Flew up , nor missed the way , by envious winds Blown vagabond or frustrate : in they passed Dimensionless through heavenly doors ; then clad With incense , where the golden altar fumed , By their great intercessour , came in sight Before the Father ' s throne : them the glad Son Presenting , thus to intercede began .
See $ Father , what first - fruits on earth are sprung From thy implanted grace in Man ; these sighs And prayers , which in this golden censer mixed With incense , I thy priest before thee bring ; Fruits of more pleasing savour , from thy seed Sown with contrition in his heart , than those Which , his own hand manuring , all the trees Of Paradise could have produced , ere fallen From innocence .
Now therefore , bend thine ear To supplication ; hear his sighs , though mute ; Unskilful with what words to pray , let me Interpret for him ; me , his advocate And propitiation ; all his works on me , Good , or not good , ingraft ; my merit those Shall perfect , and for these my death shall pay .
Accept me ; and , in me , from these receive The smell of peace toward mankind : let him live Before thee reconciled , at least his days Numbered , though sad ; till death , his doom , ( which I To mitigate thus plead , not to reverse ,) To better life shall yield him : where with me All my redeemed may dwell in joy and bliss ; Made one with me , as I with thee am one .
To whom the Father , without cloud , serene .
All thy request for Man , accepted Son , Obtain ; all thy request was my decree : But , longer in that Paradise to dwell , The law I gave to Nature him forbids : Those pure immortal elements , that know , No gross , no unharmonious mixture foul , Eject him , tainted now ; and purge him off , As a distemper , gross , to air as gross , And mortal food ; as may dispose him best For dissolution wrought by sin , that first Distempered all things , and of incorrupt Corrupted .
I , at first , with two fair gifts Created him endowed ; with happiness , And immortality : that fondly lost , This other served but to eternize woe ; Till I provided death : so death becomes His final remedy ; and , after life , Tried in sharp tribulation , and refined By faith and faithful works , to second life , Waked in the renovation of the just , Resigns him up with Heaven and Earth renewed .
But let us call to synod all the Blest , Through Heaven ' s wide bounds : from them I will not hide My judgements ; how with mankind I proceed , As how with peccant Angels late they saw , And in their state , though firm , stood more confirmed .
He ended , and the Son gave signal high To the bright minister that watched ; he blew His trumpet , heard in Oreb since perhaps When God descended , and perhaps once more To sound at general doom .
The angelick blast Filled all the regions : from their blisful bowers Of amarantine shade , fountain or spring , By the waters of life , where ' er they sat In fellowships of joy , the sons of light Hasted , resorting to the summons high ; And took their seats ; till from his throne supreme The Almighty thus pronounced his sovran will .
O Sons , like one of us Man is become To know both good and evil , since his taste Of that defended fruit ; but let him boast His knowledge of good lost , and evil got ; Happier !
had it sufficed him to have known Good by itself , and evil not at all .
He sorrows now , repents , and prays contrite , My motions in him ; longer than they move , His heart I know , how variable and vain , Self - left .
Lest therefore his now bolder hand Reach also of the tree of life , and eat , And live for ever , dream at least to live For ever , to remove him I decree , And send him from the garden forth to till The ground whence he was taken , fitter soil .
Michael , this my behest have thou in charge ; Take to thee from among the Cherubim Thy choice of flaming warriours , lest the Fiend , Or in behalf of Man , or to invade Vacant possession , some new trouble raise : Haste thee , and from the Paradise of God Without remorse drive out the sinful pair ; From hallowed ground the unholy ; and denounce To them , and to their progeny , from thence Perpetual banishment .
Yet , lest they faint At the sad sentence rigorously urged , ( For I behold them softened , and with tears Bewailing their excess ,) all terrour hide .
If patiently thy bidding they obey , Dismiss them not disconsolate ; reveal To Adam what shall come in future days , As I shall thee enlighten ; intermix My covenant in the Woman ' s seed renewed ; So send them forth , though sorrowing , yet in peace : And on the east side of the garden place , Where entrance up from Eden easiest climbs , Cherubick watch ; and of a sword the flame Wide - waving ; all approach far off to fright , And guard all passage to the tree of life : Lest Paradise a receptacle prove To Spirits foul , and all my trees their prey ; With whose stolen fruit Man once more to delude .
He ceased ; and the arch - angelick Power prepared For swift descent ; with him the cohort bright Of watchful Cherubim : four faces each Had , like a double Janus ; all their shape Spangled with eyes more numerous than those Of Argus , and more wakeful than to drouse , Charmed with Arcadian pipe , the pastoral reed Of Hermes , or his opiate rod .
Mean while , To re - salute the world with sacred light , Leucothea waked ; and with fresh dews imbalmed The earth ; when Adam and first matron Eve Had ended now their orisons , and found Strength added from above ; new hope to spring Out of despair ; joy , but with fear yet linked ; Which thus to Eve his welcome words renewed .
Eve , easily my faith admit , that all The good which we enjoy from Heaven descends ; But , that from us aught should ascend to Heaven So prevalent as to concern the mind Of God high - blest , or to incline his will , Hard to belief may seem ; yet this will prayer Or one short sigh of human breath , upborne Even to the seat of God .
For since I sought By prayer the offended Deity to appease ; Kneeled , and before him humbled all my heart ; Methought I saw him placable and mild , Bending his ear ; persuasion in me grew That I was heard with favour ; peace returned Home to my breast , and to my memory His promise , that thy seed shall bruise our foe ; Which , then not minded in dismay , yet now Assures me that the bitterness of death Is past , and we shall live .
Whence hail to thee , Eve rightly called , mother of all mankind , Mother of all things living , since by thee Man is to live ; and all things live for Man .
To whom thus Eve with sad demeanour meek .
Ill - worthy I such title should belong To me transgressour ; who , for thee ordained A help , became thy snare ; to me reproach Rather belongs , distrust , and all dispraise : But infinite in pardon was my Judge , That I , who first brought death on all , am graced The source of life ; next favourable thou , Who highly thus to entitle me vouchsaf ' st , Far other name deserving .
But the field To labour calls us , now with sweat imposed , Though after sleepless night ; for see ! the morn , All unconcerned with our unrest , begins Her rosy progress smiling : let us forth ; I never from thy side henceforth to stray , Where ' er our day ' s work lies , though now enjoined Laborious , till day droop ; while here we dwell , What can be toilsome in these pleasant walks ?
Here let us live , though in fallen state , content .
So spake , so wished much humbled Eve ; but Fate Subscribed not : Nature first gave signs , impressed On bird , beast , air ; air suddenly eclipsed , After short blush of morn ; nigh in her sight The bird of Jove , stooped from his aery tour , Two birds of gayest plume before him drove ; Down from a hill the beast that reigns in woods , First hunter then , pursued a gentle brace , Goodliest of all the forest , hart and hind ; Direct to the eastern gate was bent their flight .
Adam observed , and with his eye the chase Pursuing , not unmoved , to Eve thus spake .
O Eve , some further change awaits us nigh , Which Heaven , by these mute signs in Nature , shows Forerunners of his purpose ; or to warn Us , haply too secure , of our discharge From penalty , because from death released Some days : how long , and what till then our life , Who knows ?
or more than this , that we are dust , And thither must return , and be no more ?
Why else this double object in our sight Of flight pursued in the air , and o ' er the ground , One way the self - same hour ?
why in the east Darkness ere day ' s mid - course , and morning - light More orient in yon western cloud , that draws O ' er the blue firmament a radiant white , And slow descends with something heavenly fraught ?
He erred not ; for by this the heavenly bands Down from a sky of jasper lighted now In Paradise , and on a hill made halt ; A glorious apparition , had not doubt And carnal fear that day dimmed Adam ' s eye .
Not that more glorious , when the Angels met Jacob in Mahanaim , where he saw The field pavilioned with his guardians bright ; Nor that , which on the flaming mount appeared In Dothan , covered with a camp of fire , Against the Syrian king , who to surprise One man , assassin - like , had levied war , War unproclaimed .
The princely Hierarch In their bright stand there left his Powers , to seise Possession of the garden ; he alone , To find where Adam sheltered , took his way , Not unperceived of Adam ; who to Eve , While the great visitant approached , thus spake .
Eve $ now expect great tidings , which perhaps Of us will soon determine , or impose New laws to be observed ; for I descry , From yonder blazing cloud that veils the hill , One of the heavenly host ; and , by his gait , None of the meanest ; some great Potentate Or of the Thrones above ; such majesty Invests him coming !
yet not terrible , That I should fear ; nor sociably mild , As Raphael , that I should much confide ; But solemn and sublime ; whom not to offend , With reverence I must meet , and thou retire .
He ended : and the Arch - Angel soon drew nigh , Not in his shape celestial , but as man Clad to meet man ; over his lucid arms A military vest of purple flowed , Livelier than Meliboean , or the grain Of Sarra , worn by kings and heroes old In time of truce ; Iris had dipt the woof ; His starry helm unbuckled showed him prime In manhood where youth ended ; by his side , As in a glistering zodiack , hung the sword , Satan ' s dire dread ; and in his hand the spear .
Adam bowed low ; he , kingly , from his state Inclined not , but his coming thus declared .
Adam , Heaven ' s high behest no preface needs : Sufficient that thy prayers are heard ; and Death , Then due by sentence when thou didst transgress , Defeated of his seisure many days Given thee of grace ; wherein thou mayest repent , And one bad act with many deeds well done Mayest cover : Well may then thy Lord , appeased , Redeem thee quite from Death ' s rapacious claim ; But longer in this Paradise to dwell Permits not : to remove thee I am come , And send thee from the garden forth to till The ground whence thou wast taken , fitter soil .
He added not ; for Adam at the news Heart - struck with chilling gripe of sorrow stood , That all his senses bound ; Eve , who unseen Yet all had heard , with audible lament Discovered soon the place of her retire .
O unexpected stroke , worse than of Death !
Must I thus leave thee $ Paradise ?
thus leave Thee , native soil !
these happy walks and shades , Fit haunt of Gods ?
where I had hope to spend , Quiet though sad , the respite of that day That must be mortal to us both .
O flowers , That never will in other climate grow , My early visitation , and my last ; t even , which I bred up with tender hand From the first opening bud , and gave ye names !
Who now shall rear ye to the sun , or rank Your tribes , and water from the ambrosial fount ?
Thee lastly , nuptial bower !
by me adorned With what to sight or smell was sweet !
from thee How shall I part , and whither wander down Into a lower world ; to this obscure And wild ?
how shall we breathe in other air Less pure , accustomed to immortal fruits ?
Whom thus the Angel interrupted mild .
Lament not , Eve , but patiently resign What justly thou hast lost , nor set thy heart , Thus over - fond , on that which is not thine : Thy going is not lonely ; with thee goes Thy husband ; whom to follow thou art bound ; Where he abides , think there thy native soil .
Adam , by this from the cold sudden damp Recovering , and his scattered spirits returned , To Michael thus his humble words addressed .
Celestial , whether among the Thrones , or named Of them the highest ; for such of shape may seem Prince above princes !
gently hast thou told Thy message , which might else in telling wound , And in performing end us ; what besides Of sorrow , and dejection , and despair , Our frailty can sustain , thy tidings bring , Departure from this happy place , our sweet Recess , and only consolation left Familiar to our eyes !
all places else Inhospitable appear , and desolate ; Nor knowing us , nor known : And , if by prayer Incessant I could hope to change the will Of Him who all things can , I would not cease To weary him with my assiduous cries : But prayer against his absolute decree No more avails than breath against the wind , Blown stifling back on him that breathes it forth : Therefore to his great bidding I submit .
This most afflicts me , that , departing hence , As from his face I shall be hid , deprived His blessed countenance : Here I could frequent With worship place by place where he vouchsafed Presence Divine ; and to my sons relate , ' On this mount he appeared ; under this tree ' Stood visible ; among these pines his voice ' I heard ; here with him at this fountain talked : So many grateful altars I would rear Of grassy turf , and pile up every stone Of lustre from the brook , in memory , Or monument to ages ; and theron Offer sweet - smelling gums , and fruits , and flowers : In yonder nether world where shall I seek His bright appearances , or foot - step trace ?
For though I fled him angry , yet recalled To life prolonged and promised race , I now Gladly behold though but his utmost skirts Of glory ; and far off his steps adore .
To whom thus Michael with regard benign .
Adam , thou knowest Heaven his , and all the Earth ; Not this rock only ; his Omnipresence fills Land , sea , and air , and every kind that lives , Fomented by his virtual power and warmed : All the earth he gave thee to possess and rule , No despicable gift ; surmise not then His presence to these narrow bounds confined Of Paradise , or Eden : this had been Perhaps thy capital seat , from whence had spread All generations ; and had hither come From all the ends of the earth , to celebrate And reverence thee , their great progenitor .
But this pre - eminence thou hast lost , brought down To dwell on even ground now with thy sons : Yet doubt not but in valley , and in plain , God is , as here ; and will be found alike Present ; and of his presence many a sign Still following thee , still compassing thee round With goodness and paternal love , his face Express , and of his steps the track divine .
Which that thou mayest believe , and be confirmed Ere thou from hence depart ; know , I am sent To show thee what shall come in future days To thee , and to thy offspring : good with bad Expect to hear ; supernal grace contending With sinfulness of men ; thereby to learn True patience , and to temper joy with fear And pious sorrow ; equally inured By moderation either state to bear , Prosperous or adverse : so shalt thou lead Safest thy life , and best prepared endure Thy mortal passage when it comes .-- Ascend This hill ; let Eve ( for I have drenched her eyes ) Here sleep below ; while thou to foresight wakest ; As once thou sleptst , while she to life was formed .
To whom thus Adam gratefully replied .
Ascend , I follow thee , safe Guide , the path Thou leadest me ; and to the hand of Heaven submit , However chastening ; to the evil turn My obvious breast ; arming to overcome By suffering , and earn rest from labour won , If so I may attain .
-- So both ascend In the visions of God .
It was a hill , Of Paradise the highest ; from whose top The hemisphere of earth , in clearest ken , Stretched out to the amplest reach of prospect lay .
Not higher that hill , nor wider looking round , Whereon , for different cause , the Tempter set Our second Adam , in the wilderness ; To show him all Earth ' s kingdoms , and their glory .
His eye might there command wherever stood City of old or modern fame , the seat Of mightiest empire , from the destined walls Of Cambalu , seat of Cathaian Can , And Samarchand by Oxus , Temir ' s throne , To Paquin of Sinaean kings ; and thence To Agra and Lahor of great Mogul , Down to the golden Chersonese ; or where The Persian in Ecbatan sat , or since In Hispahan ; or where the Russian Ksar In Mosco ; or the Sultan in Bizance , Turchestan - born ; nor could his eye not ken The empire of Negus to his utmost port Ercoco , and the less maritim kings Mombaza , and Quiloa , and Melind , And Sofala , thought Ophir , to the realm Of Congo , and Angola farthest south ; Or thence from Niger flood to Atlas mount The kingdoms of Almansor , Fez and Sus , Morocco , and Algiers , and Tremisen ; On Europe thence , and where Rome was to sway The world : in spirit perhaps he also saw Rich Mexico , the seat of Montezume , And Cusco in Peru , the richer seat Of Atabalipa ; and yet unspoiled Guiana , whose great city Geryon ' s sons Call El Dorado .
But to nobler sights Michael from Adam ' s eyes the film removed , Which that false fruit that promised clearer sight Had bred ; then purged with euphrasy and rue The visual nerve , for he had much to see ; And from the well of life three drops instilled .
So deep the power of these ingredients pierced , Even to the inmost seat of mental sight , That Adam , now enforced to close his eyes , Sunk down , and all his spirits became entranced ; But him the gentle Angel by the hand Soon raised , and his attention thus recalled .
Adam , now ope thine eyes ; and first behold The effects , which thy original crime hath wrought In some to spring from thee ; who never touched The excepted tree ; nor with the snake conspired ; Nor sinned thy sin ; yet from that sin derive Corruption , to bring forth more violent deeds .
His eyes he opened , and beheld a field , Part arable and tilth , whereon were sheaves New reaped ; the other part sheep - walks and folds ; I ' the midst an altar as the land - mark stood , Rustick , of grassy sord ; thither anon A sweaty reaper from his tillage brought First fruits , the green ear , and the yellow sheaf , Unculled , as came to hand ; a shepherd next , More meek , came with the firstlings of his flock , Choicest and best ; then , sacrificing , laid The inwards and their fat , with incense strowed , On the cleft wood , and all due rights performed : His offering soon propitious fire from Heaven Consumed with nimble glance , and grateful steam ; The other ' s not , for his was not sincere ; Whereat he inly raged , and , as they talked , Smote him into the midriff with a stone That beat out life ; he fell ; and , deadly pale , Groaned out his soul with gushing blood effused .
Much at that sight was Adam in his heart Dismayed , and thus in haste to the Angel cried .
O Teacher , some great mischief hath befallen To that meek man , who well had sacrificed ; Is piety thus and pure devotion paid ?
To whom Michael thus , he also moved , replied .
These two are brethren , Adam , and to come Out of thy loins ; the unjust the just hath slain , For envy that his brother ' s offering found From Heaven acceptance ; but the bloody fact Will be avenged ; and the other ' s faith , approved , Lose no reward ; though here thou see him die , Rolling in dust and gore .
To which our sire .
Alas !
both for the deed , and for the cause !
But have I now seen Death ?
Is this the way I must return to native dust ?
O sight Of terrour , foul and ugly to behold , Horrid to think , how horrible to feel !
To whom thus Michael .
Death thou hast seen In his first shape on Man ; but many shapes Of Death , and many are the ways that lead To his grim cave , all dismal ; yet to sense More terrible at the entrance , than within .
Some , as thou sawest , by violent stroke shall die ; By fire , flood , famine , by intemperance more In meats and drinks , which on the earth shall bring Diseases dire , of which a monstrous crew Before thee shall appear ; that thou mayest know What misery the inabstinence of Eve Shall bring on Men .
Immediately a place Before his eyes appeared , sad , noisome , dark ; A lazar - house it seemed ; wherein were laid Numbers of all diseased ; all maladies Of ghastly spasm , or racking torture , qualms Of heart - sick agony , all feverous kinds , Convulsions , epilepsies , fierce catarrhs , Intestine stone and ulcer , colick - pangs , Demoniack phrenzy , moaping melancholy , And moon - struck madness , pining atrophy , Marasmus , and wide - wasting pestilence , Dropsies , and asthmas , and joint - racking rheums .
Dire was the tossing , deep the groans ; Despair Tended the sick busiest from couch to couch ; And over them triumphant Death his dart Shook , but delayed to strike , though oft invoked With vows , as their chief good , and final hope .
Sight so deform what heart of rock could long Dry - eyed behold ?
Adam could not , but wept , Though not of woman born ; compassion quelled His best of man , and gave him up to tears A space , till firmer thoughts restrained excess ; And , scarce recovering words , his plaint renewed .
O miserable mankind , to what fall Degraded , to what wretched state reserved !
Better end here unborn .
Why is life given To be thus wrested from us ?
rather , why Obtruded on us thus ?
who , if we knew What we receive , would either no accept Life offered , or soon beg to lay it down ; Glad to be so dismissed in peace .
Can thus The image of God in Man , created once So goodly and erect , though faulty since , To such unsightly sufferings be debased Under inhuman pains ?
Why should not Man , Retaining still divine similitude In part , from such deformities be free , And , for his Maker ' s image sake , exempt ?
Their Maker ' s image , answered Michael , then Forsook them , when themselves they vilified To serve ungoverned Appetite ; and took His image whom they served , a brutish vice , Inductive mainly to the sin of Eve .
Therefore so abject is their punishment , Disfiguring not God ' s likeness , but their own ; Or if his likeness , by themselves defaced ; While they pervert pure Nature ' s healthful rules To loathsome sickness ; worthily , since they God ' s image did not reverence in themselves .
I yield it just , said Adam , and submit .
But is there yet no other way , besides These painful passages , how we may come To death , and mix with our connatural dust ?
There is , said Michael , if thou well observe The rule of Not too much ; by temperance taught , In what thou eatest and drinkest ; seeking from thence Due nourishment , not gluttonous delight , Till many years over thy head return : So mayest thou live ; till , like ripe fruit , thou drop Into thy mother ' s lap ; or be with ease Gathered , nor harshly plucked ; for death mature : This is Old Age ; but then , thou must outlive Thy youth , thy strength , thy beauty ; which will change To withered , weak , and gray ; thy senses then , Obtuse , all taste of pleasure must forego , To what thou hast ; and , for the air of youth , Hopeful and cheerful , in thy blood will reign A melancholy damp of cold and dry To weigh thy spirits down , and last consume The balm of life .
To whom our ancestor .
Henceforth I fly not death , nor would prolong Life much ; bent rather , how I may be quit , Fairest and easiest , of this cumbrous charge ; Which I must keep till my appointed day Of rendering up , and patiently attend My dissolution .
Michael replied .
Nor love thy life , nor hate ; but what thou livest Live well ; how long , or short , permit to Heaven : And now prepare thee for another sight .
He looked , and saw a spacious plain , whereon Were tents of various hue ; by some , were herds Of cattle grazing ; others , whence the sound Of instruments , that made melodious chime , Was heard , of harp and organ ; and , who moved Their stops and chords , was seen ; his volant touch , Instinct through all proportions , low and high , Fled and pursued transverse the resonant fugue .
In other part stood one who , at the forge Labouring , two massy clods of iron and brass Had melted , ( whether found where casual fire Had wasted woods on mountain or in vale , Down to the veins of earth ; thence gliding hot To some cave ' s mouth ; or whether washed by stream From underground ;) the liquid ore he drained Into fit moulds prepared ; from which he formed First his own tools ; then , what might else be wrought Fusil or graven in metal .
After these , But on the hither side , a different sort From the high neighbouring hills , which was their seat , Down to the plain descended ; by their guise Just men they seemed , and all their study bent To worship God aright , and know his works Not hid ; nor those things last , which might preserve Freedom and peace to Men ; they on the plain Long had not walked , when from the tents , behold !
A bevy of fair women , richly gay In gems and wanton dress ; to the harp they sung Soft amorous ditties , and in dance came on : The men , though grave , eyed them ; and let their eyes Rove without rein ; till , in the amorous net Fast caught , they liked ; and each his liking chose ; And now of love they treat , till the evening - star , Love ' s harbinger , appeared ; then , all in heat They light the nuptial torch , and bid invoke Hymen , then first to marriage rites invoked : With feast and musick all the tents resound .
Such happy interview , and fair event Of love and youth not lost , songs , garlands , flowers , And charming symphonies , attached the heart Of Adam , soon inclined to admit delight , The bent of nature ; which he thus expressed .
True opener of mine eyes , prime Angel blest ; Much better seems this vision , and more hope Of peaceful days portends , than those two past ; Those were of hate and death , or pain much worse ; Here Nature seems fulfilled in all her ends .
To whom thus Michael .
Judge not what is best By pleasure , though to nature seeming meet ; Created , as thou art , to nobler end Holy and pure , conformity divine .
Those tents thou sawest so pleasant , were the tents Of wickedness , wherein shall dwell his race Who slew his brother ; studious they appear Of arts that polish life , inventers rare ; Unmindful of their Maker , though his Spirit Taught them ; but they his gifts acknowledged none .
Yet they a beauteous offspring shall beget ; For that fair female troop thou sawest , that seemed Of Goddesses , so blithe , so smooth , so gay , Yet empty of all good wherein consists Woman ' s domestick honour and chief praise ; Bred only and completed to the taste Of lustful appetence , to sing , to dance , To dress , and troll the tongue , and roll the eye : To these that sober race of men , whose lives Religious titled them the sons of God , Shall yield up all their virtue , all their fame Ignobly , to the trains and to the smiles Of these fair atheists ; and now swim in joy , Erelong to swim at large ; and laugh , for which The world erelong a world of tears must weep .
To whom thus Adam , of short joy bereft .
O pity and shame , that they , who to live well Entered so fair , should turn aside to tread Paths indirect , or in the mid way faint !
But still I see the tenour of Man ' s woe Holds on the same , from Woman to begin .
From Man ' s effeminate slackness it begins , Said the Angel , who should better hold his place By wisdom , and superiour gifts received .
But now prepare thee for another scene .
He looked , and saw wide territory spread Before him , towns , and rural works between ; Cities of men with lofty gates and towers , Concourse in arms , fierce faces threatening war , Giants of mighty bone and bold emprise ; Part wield their arms , part curb the foaming steed , Single or in array of battle ranged Both horse and foot , nor idly mustering stood ; One way a band select from forage drives A herd of beeves , fair oxen and fair kine , From a fat meadow ground ; or fleecy flock , Ewes and their bleating lambs over the plain , Their booty ; scarce with life the shepherds fly , But call in aid , which makes a bloody fray ; With cruel tournament the squadrons join ; Where cattle pastured late , now scattered lies With carcasses and arms the ensanguined field , Deserted : Others to a city strong Lay siege , encamped ; by battery , scale , and mine , Assaulting ; others from the wall defend With dart and javelin , stones , and sulphurous fire ; On each hand slaughter , and gigantick deeds .
In other part the sceptered heralds call To council , in the city - gates ; anon Gray - headed men and grave , with warriours mixed , Assemble , and harangues are heard ; but soon , In factious opposition ; till at last , Of middle age one rising , eminent In wise deport , spake much of right and wrong , Of justice , or religion , truth , and peace , And judgement from above : him old and young Exploded , and had seized with violent hands , Had not a cloud descending snatched him thence Unseen amid the throng : so violence Proceeded , and oppression , and sword - law , Through all the plain , and refuge none was found .
Adam was all in tears , and to his guide Lamenting turned full sad ; O ! what are these , Death ' s ministers , not men ?
who thus deal death Inhumanly to men , and multiply Ten thousandfold the sin of him who slew His brother : for of whom such massacre Make they , but of their brethren ; men of men But who was that just man , whom had not Heaven Rescued , had in his righteousness been lost ?
To whom thus Michael .
These are the product Of those ill - mated marriages thou sawest ; Where good with bad were matched , who of themselves Abhor to join ; and , by imprudence mixed , Produce prodigious births of body or mind .
Such were these giants , men of high renown ; For in those days might only shall be admired , And valour and heroick virtue called ; To overcome in battle , and subdue Nations , and bring home spoils with infinite Man - slaughter , shall be held the highest pitch Of human glory ; and for glory done Of triumph , to be styled great conquerours Patrons of mankind , Gods , and sons of Gods ; Destroyers rightlier called , and plagues of men .
Thus fame shall be achieved , renown on earth ; And what most merits fame , in silence hid .
But he , the seventh from thee , whom thou beheldst The only righteous in a world preverse , And therefore hated , therefore so beset With foes , for daring single to be just , And utter odious truth , that God would come To judge them with his Saints ; him the Most High Rapt in a balmy cloud with winged steeds Did , as thou sawest , receive , to walk with God High in salvation and the climes of bliss , Exempt from death ; to show thee what reward Awaits the good ; the rest what punishment ; Which now direct thine eyes and soon behold .
He looked , and saw the face of things quite changed ; The brazen throat of war had ceased to roar ; All now was turned to jollity and game , To luxury and riot , feast and dance ; Marrying or prostituting , as befel , Rape or adultery , where passing fair Allured them ; thence from cups to civil broils .
At length a reverend sire among them came , And of their doings great dislike declared , And testified against their ways ; he oft Frequented their assemblies , whereso met , Triumphs or festivals ; and to them preached Conversion and repentance , as to souls In prison , under judgements imminent : But all in vain : which when he saw , he ceased Contending , and removed his tents far off ; Then , from the mountain hewing timber tall , Began to build a vessel of huge bulk ; Measured by cubit , length , and breadth , and highth ; Smeared round with pitch ; and in the side a door Contrived ; and of provisions laid in large , For man and beast : when lo , a wonder strange !
Of every beast , and bird , and insect small , Came sevens , and pairs ; and entered in as taught Their order : last the sire and his three sons , With their four wives ; and God made fast the door .
Mean while the south - wind rose , and , with black wings Wide - hovering , all the clouds together drove From under Heaven ; the hills to their supply Vapour , and exhalation dusk and moist , Sent up amain ; and now the thickened sky Like a dark cieling stood ; down rushed the rain Impetuous ; and continued , till the earth No more was seen : the floating vessel swum Uplifted , and secure with beaked prow Rode tilting o ' er the waves ; all dwellings else Flood overwhelmed , and them with all their pomp Deep under water rolled ; sea covered sea , Sea without shore ; and in their palaces , Where luxury late reigned , sea - monsters whelped And stabled ; of mankind , so numerous late , All left , in one small bottom swum imbarked .
How didst thou grieve then , Adam , to behold The end of all thy offspring , end so sad , Depopulation !
Thee another flood , Of tears and sorrow a flood , thee also drowned , And sunk thee as thy sons ; till , gently reared By the Angel , on thy feet thou stoodest at last , Though comfortless ; as when a father mourns His children , all in view destroyed at once ; And scarce to the Angel utter ' dst thus thy plaint .
O visions ill foreseen !
Better had I Lived ignorant of future !
so had borne My part of evil only , each day ' s lot Enough to bear ; those now , that were dispensed The burden of many ages , on me light At once , by my foreknowledge gaining birth Abortive , to torment me ere their being , With thought that they must be .
Let no man seek Henceforth to be foretold , what shall befall Him or his children ; evil he may be sure , Which neither his foreknowing can prevent ; And he the future evil shall no less In apprehension than in substance feel , Grievous to bear : but that care now is past , Man is not whom to warn : those few escaped Famine and anguish will at last consume , Wandering that watery desart : I had hope , When violence was ceased , and war on earth , All would have then gone well ; peace would have crowned With length of happy days the race of Man ; But I was far deceived ; for now I see Peace to corrupt no less than war to waste .
How comes it thus ?
unfold , celestial Guide , And whether here the race of Man will end .
To whom thus Michael .
Those , whom last thou sawest In triumph and luxurious wealth , are they First seen in acts of prowess eminent And great exploits , but of true virtue void ; Who , having spilt much blood , and done much wast Subduing nations , and achieved thereby Fame in the world , high titles , and rich prey ; Shall change their course to pleasure , ease , and sloth , Surfeit , and lust ; till wantonness and pride Raise out of friendship hostile deeds in peace .
The conquered also , and enslaved by war , Shall , with their freedom lost , all virtue lose And fear of God ; from whom their piety feigned In sharp contest of battle found no aid Against invaders ; therefore , cooled in zeal , Thenceforth shall practice how to live secure , Worldly or dissolute , on what their lords Shall leave them to enjoy ; for the earth shall bear More than enough , that temperance may be tried : So all shall turn degenerate , all depraved ; Justice and temperance , truth and faith , forgot ; One man except , the only son of light In a dark age , against example good , Against allurement , custom , and a world Offended : fearless of reproach and scorn , The grand - child , with twelve sons encreased , departs From Canaan , to a land hereafter called Egypt , divided by the river Nile ; See where it flows , disgorging at seven mouths Into the sea : To sojourn in that land He comes , invited by a younger son In time of dearth ; a son , whose worthy deeds Raise him to be the second in that realm Of Pharaoh : There he dies , and leaves his race Growing into a nation , and now grown Suspected to a sequent king , who seeks To stop their overgrowth , as inmate guests Or violence , he of their wicked ways Shall them admonish ; and before them set The paths of righteousness , how much more safe And full of peace ; denouncing wrath to come On their impenitence ; and shall return Of them derided , but of God observed The one just man alive ; by his command Shall build a wonderous ark , as thou beheldst , To save himself , and houshold , from amidst A world devote to universal wrack .
No sooner he , with them of man and beast Select for life , shall in the ark be lodged , And sheltered round ; but all the cataracts Of Heaven set open on the Earth shall pour Rain , day and night ; all fountains of the deep , Broke up , shall heave the ocean to usurp Beyond all bounds ; till inundation rise Above the highest hills : Then shall this mount Of Paradise by might of waves be moved Out of his place , pushed by the horned flood , With all his verdure spoiled , and trees adrift , Down the great river to the opening gulf , And there take root an island salt and bare , The haunt of seals , and orcs , and sea - mews ' clang : To teach thee that God attributes to place No sanctity , if none be thither brought By men who there frequent , or therein dwell .
And now , what further shall ensue , behold .
He looked , and saw the ark hull on the flood , Which now abated ; for the clouds were fled , Driven by a keen north - wind , that , blowing dry , Wrinkled the face of deluge , as decayed ; And the clear sun on his wide watery glass Gazed hot , and of the fresh wave largely drew , As after thirst ; which made their flowing shrink From standing lake to tripping ebb , that stole With soft foot towards the deep ; who now had stopt His sluces , as the Heaven his windows shut .
The ark no more now floats , but seems on ground , Fast on the top of some high mountain fixed .
And now the tops of hills , as rocks , appear ; With clamour thence the rapid currents drive , Towards the retreating sea , their furious tide .
Forthwith from out the ark a raven flies , And after him , the surer messenger , A dove sent forth once and again to spy Green tree or ground , whereon his foot may light : The second time returning , in his bill An olive - leaf he brings , pacifick sign : Anon dry ground appears , and from his ark The ancient sire descends , with all his train ; Then with uplifted hands , and eyes devout , Grateful to Heaven , over his head beholds A dewy cloud , and in the cloud a bow Conspicuous with three lifted colours gay , Betokening peace from God , and covenant new .
Whereat the heart of Adam , erst so sad , Greatly rejoiced ; and thus his joy broke forth .
O thou , who future things canst represent As present , heavenly Instructer !
I revive At this last sight ; assured that Man shall live , With all the creatures , and their seed preserve .
Far less I now lament for one whole world Of wicked sons destroyed , than I rejoice For one man found so perfect , and so just , That God vouchsafes to raise another world From him , and all his anger to forget .
But say , what mean those coloured streaks in Heaven Distended , as the brow of God appeased ?
Or serve they , as a flowery verge , to bind The fluid skirts of that same watery cloud , Lest it again dissolve , and shower the earth ?
To whom the Arch - Angel .
Dextrously thou aimest ; So willingly doth God remit his ire , Though late repenting him of Man depraved ; Grieved at his heart , when looking down he saw The whole earth filled with violence , and all flesh Corrupting each their way ; yet , those removed , Such grace shall one just man find in his sight , That he relents , not to blot out mankind ; And makes a covenant never to destroy The earth again by flood ; nor let the sea Surpass his bounds ; nor rain to drown the world , With man therein or beast ; but , when he brings Over the earth a cloud , will therein set His triple - coloured bow , whereon to look , And call to mind his covenant : Day and night , Seed - time and harvest , heat and hoary frost , Shall hold their course ; till fire purge all things new , Both Heaven and Earth , wherein the just shall dwell .
Book XII
As one who in his journey bates at noon , Though bent on speed ; so here the Arch - Angel paused Betwixt the world destroyed and world restored , If Adam aught perhaps might interpose ; Then , with transition sweet , new speech resumes .
Thus thou hast seen one world begin , and end ; And Man , as from a second stock , proceed .
Much thou hast yet to see ; but I perceive Thy mortal sight to fail ; objects divine Must needs impair and weary human sense : Henceforth what is to come I will relate ; Thou therefore give due audience , and attend .
This second source of Men , while yet but few , And while the dread of judgement past remains Fresh in their minds , fearing the Deity , With some regard to what is just and right Shall lead their lives , and multiply apace ; Labouring the soil , and reaping plenteous crop , Corn , wine , and oil ; and , from the herd or flock , Oft sacrificing bullock , lamb , or kid , With large wine - offerings poured , and sacred feast , Shall spend their days in joy unblamed ; and dwell Long time in peace , by families and tribes , Under paternal rule : till one shall rise Of proud ambitious heart ; who , not content With fair equality , fraternal state , Will arrogate dominion undeserved Over his brethren , and quite dispossess Concord and law of nature from the earth ; Hunting ( and men not beasts shall be his game ) With war , and hostile snare , such as refuse Subjection to his empire tyrannous : A mighty hunter thence he shall be styled Before the Lord ; as in despite of Heaven , Or from Heaven , claiming second sovranty ; And from rebellion shall derive his name , Though of rebellion others he accuse .
He with a crew , whom like ambition joins With him or under him to tyrannize , Marching from Eden towards the west , shall find The plain , wherein a black bituminous gurge Boils out from under ground , the mouth of Hell : Of brick , and of that stuff , they cast to build A city and tower , whose top may reach to Heaven ; And get themselves a name ; lest , far dispersed In foreign lands , their memory be lost ; Regardless whether good or evil fame .
But God , who oft descends to visit men Unseen , and through their habitations walks To mark their doings , them beholding soon , Comes down to see their city , ere the tower Obstruct Heaven - towers , and in derision sets Upon their tongues a various spirit , to rase Quite out their native language ; and , instead , To sow a jangling noise of words unknown : Forthwith a hideous gabble rises loud , Among the builders ; each to other calls Not understood ; till hoarse , and all in rage , As mocked they storm : great laughter was in Heaven , And looking down , to see the hubbub strange , And hear the din : Thus was the building left Ridiculous , and the work Confusion named .
Whereto thus Adam , fatherly displeased .
O execrable son !
so to aspire Above his brethren ; to himself assuming Authority usurped , from God not given : He gave us only over beast , fish , fowl , Dominion absolute ; that right we hold By his donation ; but man over men He made not lord ; such title to himself Reserving , human left from human free .
But this usurper his encroachment proud Stays not on Man ; to God his tower intends Siege and defiance : Wretched man ! what food Will he convey up thither , to sustain Himself and his rash army ; where thin air Above the clouds will pine his entrails gross , And famish him of breath , if not of bread ?
To whom thus Michael .
Justly thou abhorrest That son , who on the quiet state of men Such trouble brought , affecting to subdue Rational liberty ; yet know withal , Since thy original lapse , true liberty Is lost , which always with right reason dwells Twinned , and from her hath no dividual being : Reason in man obscured , or not obeyed , Immediately inordinate desires , And upstart passions , catch the government From reason ; and to servitude reduce Man , till then free .
Therefore , since he permits Within himself unworthy powers to reign Over free reason , God , in judgement just , Subjects him from without to violent lords ; Who oft as undeservedly enthrall His outward freedom : Tyranny must be ; Though to the tyrant thereby no excuse .
Yet sometimes nations will decline so low From virtue , which is reason , that no wrong , But justice , and some fatal curse annexed , Deprives them of their outward liberty ; Their inward lost : Witness the irreverent son Of him who built the ark ; who , for the shame Done to his father , heard this heavy curse , Servant of servants , on his vicious race .
Thus will this latter , as the former world , Still tend from bad to worse ; till God at last , Wearied with their iniquities , withdraw His presence from among them , and avert His holy eyes ; resolving from thenceforth To leave them to their own polluted ways ; And one peculiar nation to select From all the rest , of whom to be invoked , A nation from one faithful man to spring : Him on this side Euphrates yet residing , Bred up in idol - worship : O , that men ( Canst thou believe ?)
should be so stupid grown , While yet the patriarch lived , who ' scaped the flood , As to forsake the living God , and fall To worship their own work in wood and stone For Gods !
Yet him God the Most High vouchsafes To call by vision , from his father ' s house , His kindred , and false Gods , into a land Which he will show him ; and from him will raise A mighty nation ; and upon him shower His benediction so , that in his seed All nations shall be blest : he straight obeys ; Not knowing to what land , yet firm believes : I see him , but thou canst not , with what faith He leaves his Gods , his friends , and native soil , Ur of Chaldaea , passing now the ford To Haran ; after him a cumbrous train Of herds and flocks , and numerous servitude ; Not wandering poor , but trusting all his wealth With God , who called him , in a land unknown .
Canaan he now attains ; I see his tents Pitched about Sechem , and the neighbouring plain Of Moreh ; there by promise he receives Gift to his progeny of all that land , From Hameth northward to the Desart south ; ( Things by their names I call , though yet unnamed ;) From Hermon east to the great western Sea ; Mount Hermon , yonder sea ; each place behold In prospect , as I point them ; on the shore Mount Carmel ; here , the double - founted stream , Jordan , true limit eastward ; but his sons Shall dwell to Senir , that long ridge of hills .
This ponder , that all nations of the earth Shall in his seed be blessed : By that seed Is meant thy great Deliverer , who shall bruise The Serpent ' s head ; whereof to thee anon Plainlier shall be revealed .
This patriarch blest , Whom faithful Abraham due time shall call , A son , and of his son a grand - child , leaves ; Like him in faith , in wisdom , and renown : The grandchild , with twelve sons increased , departs From Canaan to a land hereafter called Egypt , divided by the river Nile See where it flows , disgorging at seven mouths Into the sea .
To sojourn in that land He comes , invited by a younger son In time of dearth , a son whose worthy deeds Raise him to be the second in that realm Of Pharaoh .
There he dies , and leaves his race Growing into a nation , and now grown Suspected to a sequent king , who seeks To stop their overgrowth , as inmate guests Too numerous ; whence of guests he makes them slaves Inhospitably , and kills their infant males : Till by two brethren ( these two brethren call Moses and Aaron ) sent from God to claim His people from enthralment , they return , With glory and spoil , back to their promised land .
But first , the lawless tyrant , who denies To know their God , or message to regard , Must be compelled by signs and judgements dire ; To blood unshed the rivers must be turned ; Frogs , lice , and flies , must all his palace fill With loathed intrusion , and fill all the land ; His cattle must of rot and murren die ; Botches and blains must all his flesh emboss , And all his people ; thunder mixed with hail , Hail mixed with fire , must rend the Egyptians sky , And wheel on the earth , devouring where it rolls ; What it devours not , herb , or fruit , or grain , A darksome cloud of locusts swarming down Must eat , and on the ground leave nothing green ; Darkness must overshadow all his bounds , Palpable darkness , and blot out three days ; Last , with one midnight stroke , all the first - born Of Egypt must lie dead .
Thus with ten wounds The river - dragon tamed at length submits To let his sojourners depart , and oft Humbles his stubborn heart ; but still , as ice More hardened after thaw ; till , in his rage Pursuing whom he late dismissed , the sea Swallows him with his host ; but them lets pass , As on dry land , between two crystal walls ; Awed by the rod of Moses so to stand Divided , till his rescued gain their shore : Such wondrous power God to his saint will lend , Though present in his Angel ; who shall go Before them in a cloud , and pillar of fire ; By day a cloud , by night a pillar of fire ; To guide them in their journey , and remove Behind them , while the obdurate king pursues : All night he will pursue ; but his approach Darkness defends between till morning watch ; Then through the fiery pillar , and the cloud , God looking forth will trouble all his host , And craze their chariot - wheels : when by command Moses once more his potent rod extends Over the sea ; the sea his rod obeys ; On their embattled ranks the waves return , And overwhelm their war : The race elect Safe toward Canaan from the shore advance Through the wild Desart , not the readiest way ; Lest , entering on the Canaanite alarmed , War terrify them inexpert , and fear Return them back to Egypt , choosing rather Inglorious life with servitude ; for life To noble and ignoble is more sweet Untrained in arms , where rashness leads not on .
This also shall they gain by their delay In the wide wilderness ; there they shall found Their government , and their great senate choose Through the twelve tribes , to rule by laws ordained : God from the mount of Sinai , whose gray top Shall tremble , he descending , will himself In thunder , lightning , and loud trumpets ' sound , Ordain them laws ; part , such as appertain To civil justice ; part , religious rites Of sacrifice ; informing them , by types And shadows , of that destined Seed to bruise The Serpent , by what means he shall achieve Mankind ' s deliverance .
But the voice of God To mortal ear is dreadful : They beseech That Moses might report to them his will , And terrour cease ; he grants what they besought , Instructed that to God is no access Without Mediator , whose high office now Moses in figure bears ; to introduce One greater , of whose day he shall foretel , And all the Prophets in their age the times Of great Messiah shall sing .
Thus , laws and rites Established , such delight hath God in Men Obedient to his will , that he vouchsafes Among them to set up his tabernacle ; The Holy One with mortal Men to dwell : By his prescript a sanctuary is framed Of cedar , overlaid with gold ; therein An ark , and in the ark his testimony , The records of his covenant ; over these A mercy - seat of gold , between the wings Of two bright Cherubim ; before him burn Seven lamps as in a zodiack representing The heavenly fires ; over the tent a cloud Shall rest by day , a fiery gleam by night ; Save when they journey , and at length they come , Conducted by his Angel , to the land Promised to Abraham and his seed :-- The rest Were long to tell ; how many battles fought How many kings destroyed ; and kingdoms won ; Or how the sun shall in mid Heaven stand still A day entire , and night ' s due course adjourn , Man ' s voice commanding , ' Sun , in Gibeon stand , ' And thou moon in the vale of Aialon , ' Till Israel overcome !
so call the third From Abraham , son of Isaac ; and from him His whole descent , who thus shall Canaan win .
Here Adam interposed .
O sent from Heaven , Enlightener of my darkness , gracious things Thou hast revealed ; those chiefly , which concern Just Abraham and his seed : now first I find Mine eyes true - opening , and my heart much eased ; Erewhile perplexed with thoughts , what would become Of me and all mankind : But now I see His day , in whom all nations shall be blest ; Favour unmerited by me , who sought Forbidden knowledge by forbidden means .
This yet I apprehend not , why to those Among whom God will deign to dwell on earth So many and so various laws are given ; So many laws argue so many sins Among them ; how can God with such reside ?
To whom thus Michael .
Doubt not but that sin Will reign among them , as of thee begot ; And therefore was law given them , to evince Their natural pravity , by stirring up Sin against law to fight : that when they see Law can discover sin , but not remove , Save by those shadowy expiations weak , The blood of bulls and goats , they may conclude Some blood more precious must be paid for Man ; Just for unjust ; that , in such righteousness To them by faith imputed , they may find Justification towards God , and peace Of conscience ; which the law by ceremonies Cannot appease ; nor Man the mortal part Perform ; and , not performing , cannot live .
So law appears imperfect ; and but given With purpose to resign them , in full time , Up to a better covenant ; disciplined From shadowy types to truth ; from flesh to spirit ; From imposition of strict laws to free Acceptance of large grace ; from servile fear To filial ; works of law to works of faith .
And therefore shall not Moses , though of God Highly beloved , being but the minister Of law , his people into Canaan lead ; But Joshua , whom the Gentiles Jesus call , His name and office bearing , who shall quell The adversary - Serpent , and bring back Through the world ' s wilderness long - wandered Man Safe to eternal Paradise of rest .
Mean while they , in their earthly Canaan placed , Long time shall dwell and prosper , but when sins National interrupt their publick peace , Provoking God to raise them enemies ; From whom as oft he saves them penitent By Judges first , then under Kings ; of whom The second , both for piety renowned And puissant deeds , a promise shall receive Irrevocable , that his regal throne For ever shall endure ; the like shall sing All Prophecy , that of the royal stock Of David ( so I name this king ) shall rise A Son , the Woman ' s seed to thee foretold , Foretold to Abraham , as in whom shall trust All nations ; and to kings foretold , of kings The last ; for of his reign shall be no end .
But first , a long succession must ensue ; And his next son , for wealth and wisdom famed , The clouded ark of God , till then in tents Wandering , shall in a glorious temple enshrine .
Such follow him , as shall be registered Part good , part bad ; of bad the longer scroll ; Whose foul idolatries , and other faults Heaped to the popular sum , will so incense God , as to leave them , and expose their land , Their city , his temple , and his holy ark , With all his sacred things , a scorn and prey To that proud city , whose high walls thou sawest Left in confusion ; Babylon thence called .
There in captivity he lets them dwell The space of seventy years ; then brings them back , Remembering mercy , and his covenant sworn To David , stablished as the days of Heaven .
Returned from Babylon by leave of kings Their lords , whom God disposed , the house of God They first re - edify ; and for a while In mean estate live moderate ; till , grown In wealth and multitude , factious they grow ; But first among the priests dissention springs , Men who attend the altar , and should most Endeavour peace : their strife pollution brings Upon the temple itself : at last they seise The scepter , and regard not David ' s sons ; Then lose it to a stranger , that the true Anointed King Messiah might be born Barred of his right ; yet at his birth a star , Unseen before in Heaven , proclaims him come ; And guides the eastern sages , who inquire His place , to offer incense , myrrh , and gold : His place of birth a solemn Angel tells To simple shepherds , keeping watch by night ; They gladly thither haste , and by a quire Of squadroned Angels hear his carol sung .
A virgin is his mother , but his sire The power of the Most High : He shall ascend The throne hereditary , and bound his reign With Earth ' s wide bounds , his glory with the Heavens .
He ceased , discerning Adam with such joy Surcharged , as had like grief been dewed in tears , Without the vent of words ; which these he breathed .
O prophet of glad tidings , finisher Of utmost hope !
now clear I understand What oft my steadiest thoughts have searched in vain ; Why our great Expectation should be called The seed of Woman : Virgin Mother , hail , High in the love of Heaven ; yet from my loins Thou shalt proceed , and from thy womb the Son Of God Most High : so God with Man unites !
Needs must the Serpent now his capital bruise Expect with mortal pain : Say where and when Their fight , what stroke shall bruise the victor ' s heel .
To whom thus Michael .
Dream not of their fight , As of a duel , or the local wounds Of head or heel : Not therefore joins the Son Manhood to Godhead , with more strength to foil Thy enemy ; nor so is overcome Satan , whose fall from Heaven , a deadlier bruise , Disabled , not to give thee thy death ' s wound : Which he , who comes thy Saviour , shall recure , Not by destroying Satan , but his works In thee , and in thy seed : Nor can this be , But by fulfilling that which thou didst want , Obedience to the law of God , imposed On penalty of death , and suffering death ; The penalty to thy transgression due , And due to theirs which out of thine will grow : So only can high Justice rest appaid .
The law of God exact he shall fulfil Both by obedience and by love , though love Alone fulfil the law ; thy punishment He shall endure , by coming in the flesh To a reproachful life , and cursed death ; Proclaiming life to all who shall believe In his redemption ; and that his obedience , Imputed , becomes theirs by faith ; his merits To save them , not their own , though legal , works .
For this he shall live hated , be blasphemed , Seised on by force , judged , and to death condemned A shameful and accursed , nailed to the cross By his own nation ; slain for bringing life : But to the cross he nails thy enemies , The law that is against thee , and the sins Of all mankind , with him there crucified , Never to hurt them more who rightly trust In this his satisfaction ; so he dies , But soon revives ; Death over him no power Shall long usurp ; ere the third dawning light Return , the stars of morn shall see him rise Out of his grave , fresh as the dawning light , Thy ransom paid , which Man from death redeems , His death for Man , as many as offered life Neglect not , and the benefit embrace By faith not void of works : This God - like act Annuls thy doom , the death thou shouldest have died , In sin for ever lost from life ; this act Shall bruise the head of Satan , crush his strength , Defeating Sin and Death , his two main arms ; And fix far deeper in his head their stings Than temporal death shall bruise the victor ' s heel , Or theirs whom he redeems ; a death , like sleep , A gentle wafting to immortal life .
Nor after resurrection shall he stay Longer on earth , than certain times to appear To his disciples , men who in his life Still followed him ; to them shall leave in charge To teach all nations what of him they learned And his salvation ; them who shall believe Baptizing in the profluent stream , the sign Of washing them from guilt of sin to life Pure , and in mind prepared , if so befall , For death , like that which the Redeemer died .
All nations they shall teach ; for , from that day , Not only to the sons of Abraham ' s loins Salvation shall be preached , but to the sons Of Abraham ' s faith wherever through the world ; So in his seed all nations shall be blest .
Then to the Heaven of Heavens he shall ascend With victory , triumphing through the air Over his foes and thine ; there shall surprise The Serpent , prince of air , and drag in chains Through all his realm , and there confounded leave ; Then enter into glory , and resume His seat at God ' s right hand , exalted high Above all names in Heaven ; and thence shall come , When this world ' s dissolution shall be ripe , With glory and power to judge both quick and dead ; To judge the unfaithful dead , but to reward His faithful , and receive them into bliss , Whether in Heaven or Earth ; for then the Earth Shall all be Paradise , far happier place Than this of Eden , and far happier days .
So spake the Arch - Angel Michael ; then paused , As at the world ' s great period ; and our sire , Replete with joy and wonder , thus replied .
O Goodness infinite , Goodness immense !
That all this good of evil shall produce , And evil turn to good ; more wonderful Than that which by creation first brought forth Light out of darkness !
Full of doubt I stand , Whether I should repent me now of sin By me done , and occasioned ; or rejoice Much more , that much more good thereof shall spring ; To God more glory , more good - will to Men From God , and over wrath grace shall abound .
But say , if our Deliverer up to Heaven Must re - ascend , what will betide the few His faithful , left among the unfaithful herd , The enemies of truth ?
Who then shall guide His people , who defend ?
Will they not deal Worse with his followers than with him they dealt ?
Be sure they will , said the Angel ; but from Heaven He to his own a Comforter will send , The promise of the Father , who shall dwell His Spirit within them ; and the law of faith , Working through love , upon their hearts shall write , To guide them in all truth ; and also arm With spiritual armour , able to resist Satan ' s assaults , and quench his fiery darts ; What man can do against them , not afraid , Though to the death ; against such cruelties With inward consolations recompensed , And oft supported so as shall amaze Their proudest persecutors : For the Spirit , Poured first on his Apostles , whom he sends To evangelize the nations , then on all Baptized , shall them with wonderous gifts endue To speak all tongues , and do all miracles , As did their Lord before them .
Thus they win Great numbers of each nation to receive With joy the tidings brought from Heaven : At length Their ministry performed , and race well run , Their doctrine and their story written left , They die ; but in their room , as they forewarn , Wolves shall succeed for teachers , grievous wolves , Who all the sacred mysteries of Heaven To their own vile advantages shall turn Of lucre and ambition ; and the truth With superstitions and traditions taint , Left only in those written records pure , Though not but by the Spirit understood .
Then shall they seek to avail themselves of names , Places , and titles , and with these to join Secular power ; though feigning still to act By spiritual , to themselves appropriating The Spirit of God , promised alike and given To all believers ; and , from that pretence , Spiritual laws by carnal power shall force On every conscience ; laws which none shall find Left them inrolled , or what the Spirit within Shall on the heart engrave .
What will they then But force the Spirit of Grace itself , and bind His consort Liberty ?
what , but unbuild His living temples , built by faith to stand , Their own faith , not another ' s ?
for , on earth , Who against faith and conscience can be heard Infallible ?
yet many will presume : Whence heavy persecution shall arise On all , who in the worship persevere Of spirit and truth ; the rest , far greater part , Will deem in outward rites and specious forms Religion satisfied ; Truth shall retire Bestuck with slanderous darts , and works of faith Rarely be found : So shall the world go on , To good malignant , to bad men benign ; Under her own weight groaning ; till the day Appear of respiration to the just , And vengeance to the wicked , at return Of him so lately promised to thy aid , The Woman ' s Seed ; obscurely then foretold , Now ampler known thy Saviour and thy Lord ; Last , in the clouds , from Heaven to be revealed In glory of the Father , to dissolve Satan with his perverted world ; then raise From the conflagrant mass , purged and refined , New Heavens , new Earth , ages of endless date , Founded in righteousness , and peace , and love ; To bring forth fruits , joy and eternal bliss .
He ended ; and thus Adam last replied .
How soon hath thy prediction , Seer blest , Measured this transient world , the race of time , Till time stand fixed !
Beyond is all abyss , Eternity , whose end no eye can reach .
Greatly - instructed I shall hence depart ; Greatly in peace of thought ; and have my fill Of knowledge , what this vessel can contain ; Beyond which was my folly to aspire .
Henceforth I learn , that to obey is best , And love with fear the only God ; to walk As in his presence ; ever to observe His providence ; and on him sole depend , Merciful over all his works , with good Still overcoming evil , and by small Accomplishing great things , by things deemed weak Subverting worldly strong , and worldly wise By simply meek : that suffering for truth ' s sake Is fortitude to highest victory , And , to the faithful , death the gate of life ; Taught this by his example , whom I now Acknowledge my Redeemer ever blest .
To whom thus also the Angel last replied .
This having learned , thou hast attained the sum Of wisdom ; hope no higher , though all the stars Thou knewest by name , and all the ethereal powers , All secrets of the deep , all Nature ' s works , Or works of God in Heaven , air , earth , or sea , And all the riches of this world enjoyedst , And all the rule , one empire ; only add Deeds to thy knowledge answerable ; add faith , Add virtue , patience , temperance ; add love , By name to come called charity , the soul Of all the rest : then wilt thou not be loth To leave this Paradise , but shalt possess A Paradise within thee , happier far .-- Let us descend now therefore from this top Of speculation ; for the hour precise Exacts our parting hence ; and see ! the guards , By me encamped on yonder hill , expect Their motion ; at whose front a flaming sword , In signal of remove , waves fiercely round : We may no longer stay : go , waken Eve ; Her also I with gentle dreams have calmed Portending good , and all her spirits composed To meek submission : thou , at season fit , Let her with thee partake what thou hast heard ; Chiefly what may concern her faith to know , The great deliverance by her seed to come ( For by the Woman ' s seed ) on all mankind : That ye may live , which will be many days , Both in one faith unanimous , though sad , With cause , for evils past ; yet much more cheered With meditation on the happy end .
He ended , and they both descend the hill ; Descended , Adam to the bower , where Eve Lay sleeping , ran before ; but found her waked ; And thus with words not sad she him received .
Whence thou returnest , and whither wentest , I know ; For God is also in sleep ; and dreams advise , Which he hath sent propitious , some great good Presaging , since with sorrow and heart ' s distress Wearied I fell asleep : But now lead on ; In me is no delay ; with thee to go , Is to stay here ; without thee here to stay , Is to go hence unwilling ; thou to me Art all things under $ Heaven , all places thou , Who for my wilful crime art banished hence .
This further consolation yet secure I carry hence ; though all by me is lost , Such favour I unworthy am vouchsafed , By me the Promised Seed shall all restore .
So spake our mother Eve ; and Adam heard Well pleased , but answered not : For now , too nigh The Arch - Angel stood ; and , from the other hill To their fixed station , all in bright array The Cherubim descended ; on the ground Gliding meteorous , as evening - mist Risen from a river o ' er the marish glides , And gathers ground fast at the labourer ' s heel Homeward returning .
High in front advanced , The brandished sword of God before them blazed , Fierce as a comet ; which with torrid heat , And vapour as the Libyan air adust , Began to parch that temperate clime ; whereat In either hand the hastening Angel caught Our lingering parents , and to the eastern gate Led them direct , and down the cliff as fast To the subjected plain ; then disappeared .
They , looking back , all the eastern side beheld Of Paradise , so late their happy seat , Waved over by that flaming brand ; the gate With dreadful faces thronged , and fiery arms : Some natural tears they dropt , but wiped them soon ; The world was all before them , where to choose Their place of rest , and Providence their guide : They , hand in hand , with wandering steps and slow , Through Eden took their solitary way .
[ The End ]
[ The Tragedie of Julius Caesar by William Shakespeare 1599 ]
Actus Primus .
Scoena Prima .
Enter Flauius , Murellus , and certaine Commoners ouer the Stage .
Flauius .
Hence : home you idle Creatures , get you home : Is this a Holiday ?
What , know you not ( Being Mechanicall ) you ought not walke Vpon a labouring day , without the signe Of your Profession ?
Speake , what Trade art thou ?
Car .
Why Sir , a Carpenter
Mur .
Where is thy Leather Apron , and thy Rule ?
What dost thou with thy best Apparrell on ?
You sir , what Trade are you ?
Cobl .
Truely Sir , in respect of a fine Workman , I am but as you would say , a Cobler
Mur .
But what Trade art thou ?
Answer me directly
Cob .
A Trade Sir , that I hope I may vse , with a safe Conscience , which is indeed Sir , a Mender of bad soules
Fla . What Trade thou knaue ?
Thou naughty knaue , what Trade ?
Cobl .
Nay I beseech you Sir , be not out with me : yet if you be out Sir , I can mend you
Mur .
What mean ' st thou by that ?
Mend mee , thou sawcy Fellow ?
Cob .
Why sir , Cobble you
Fla . Thou art a Cobler , art thou ?
Cob .
Truly sir , all that I liue by , is with the Aule : I meddle with no Tradesmans matters , nor womens matters ; but withal I am indeed Sir , a Surgeon to old shooes : when they are in great danger , I recouer them .
As proper men as euer trod vpon Neats Leather , haue gone vpon my handy - worke
Fla .
But wherefore art not in thy Shop to day ?
Why do ' st thou leade these men about the streets ?
Cob .
Truly sir , to weare out their shooes , to get my selfe into more worke .
But indeede sir , we make Holyday to see Caesar , and to reioyce in his Triumph
Mur .
Wherefore reioyce ?
What Conquest brings he home ?
What Tributaries follow him to Rome , To grace in Captiue bonds his Chariot Wheeles ?
You Blockes , you stones , you worse then senslesse things : O you hard hearts , you cruell men of Rome , Knew you not Pompey many a time and oft ?
Haue you climb ' d vp to Walles and Battlements , To Towres and Windowes ?
Yea , to Chimney tops , Your Infants in your Armes , and there haue sate The liue - long day , with patient expectation , To see great Pompey passe the streets of Rome : And when you saw his Chariot but appeare , Haue you not made an Vniuersall shout , That Tyber trembled vnderneath her bankes To heare the replication of your sounds , Made in her Concaue Shores ?
And do you now put on your best attyre ?
And do you now cull out a Holyday ?
And do you now strew Flowers in his way , That comes in Triumph ouer Pompeyes blood ?
Be gone , Runne to your houses , fall vpon your knees , Pray to the Gods to intermit the plague That needs must light on this Ingratitude
Fla . Go , go , good Countrymen , and for this fault Assemble all the poore men of your sort ; Draw them to Tyber bankes , and weepe your teares Into the Channell , till the lowest streame Do kisse the most exalted Shores of all .
Exeunt .
all the Commoners .
See where their basest mettle be not mou ' d , They vanish tongue - tyed in their guiltinesse : Go you downe that way towards the Capitoll , This way will I : Disrobe the Images , If you do finde them deckt with Ceremonies
Mur .
May we do so ?
You know it is the Feast of Lupercall
Fla .
It is no matter , let no Images Be hung with Caesars Trophees : Ile about , And driue away the Vulgar from the streets ; So do you too , where you perceiue them thicke .
These growing Feathers , pluckt from Caesars wing , Will make him flye an ordinary pitch , Who else would soare aboue the view of men , And keepe vs all in seruile fearefulnesse .
Exeunt .
Enter Caesar , Antony for the Course , Calphurnia , Portia , Decius , Cicero , Brutus , Cassius , Caska , a Soothsayer : after them Murellus and Flauius .
Caes .
Calphurnia
Cask .
Peace ho , Caesar speakes
Caes .
Calphurnia
Calp .
Heere my Lord
Caes .
Stand you directly in Antonio ' s way , When he doth run his course .
Antonio
Ant .
Caesar , my Lord
Caes .
Forget not in your speed Antonio , To touch Calphurnia : for our Elders say , The Barren touched in this holy chace , Shake off their sterrile curse
Ant .
I shall remember , When Caesar sayes , Do this ; it is perform ' d
Caes .
Set on , and leaue no Ceremony out
Sooth .
Caesar
Caes .
Ha ?
Who calles ?
Cask .
Bid euery noyse be still : peace yet againe
Caes .
Who is it in the presse , that calles on me ?
I heare a Tongue shriller then all the Musicke Cry , Caesar : Speake , Caesar is turn ' d to heare
Sooth .
Beware the Ides of March
Caes .
What man is that ?
Br .
A Sooth - sayer bids you beware the Ides of March Caes .
Set him before me , let me see his face
Cassi .
Fellow , come from the throng , look vpon Caesar
Caes .
What sayst thou to me now ?
Speak once againe , Sooth .
Beware the Ides of March
Caes .
He is a Dreamer , let vs leaue him : Passe .
Sennet
Exeunt .
Manet Brut .
& Cass .
Cassi .
Will you go see the order of the course ?
Brut .
Not I
Cassi .
I pray you do
Brut .
I am not Gamesom : I do lacke some part Of that quicke Spirit that is in Antony : Let me not hinder Cassius your desires ; Ile leaue you
Cassi .
Brutus , I do obserue you now of late : I haue not from your eyes , that gentlenesse And shew of Loue , as I was wont to haue : You beare too stubborne , and too strange a hand Ouer your Friend , that loues you
Bru .
Cassius , Be not deceiu ' d : If I haue veyl ' d my looke , I turne the trouble of my Countenance Meerely vpon my selfe .
Vexed I am Of late , with passions of some difference , Conceptions onely proper to my selfe , Which giue some soyle ( perhaps ) to my Behauiours : But let not therefore my good Friends be greeu ' d ( Among which number Cassius be you one ) Nor construe any further my neglect , Then that poore Brutus with himselfe at warre , Forgets the shewes of Loue to other men
Cassi .
Then Brutus , I haue much mistook your passion , By meanes whereof , this Brest of mine hath buried Thoughts of great value , worthy Cogitations .
Tell me good Brutus , Can you see your face ?
Brutus .
No Cassius : For the eye sees not it selfe but by reflection , By some other things
Cassius .
' Tis iust , And it is very much lamented Brutus , That you haue no such Mirrors , as will turne Your hidden worthinesse into your eye , That you might see your shadow : I haue heard , Where many of the best respect in Rome , ( Except immortall Caesar ) speaking of Brutus , And groaning vnderneath this Ages yoake , Haue wish ' d , that Noble Brutus had his eyes
Bru .
Into what dangers , would you Leade me Cassius ?
That you would haue me seeke into my selfe , For that which is not in me ?
Cas .
Therefore good Brutus , be prepar ' d to heare : And since you know , you cannot see your selfe So well as by Reflection ; I your Glasse , Will modestly discouer to your selfe That of your selfe , which you yet know not of .
And be not iealous on me , gentle Brutus : Were I a common Laughter , or did vse To stale with ordinary Oathes my loue To euery new Protester : if you know , That I do fawne on men , and hugge them hard , And after scandall them : Or if you know , That I professe my selfe in Banquetting To all the Rout , then hold me dangerous .
Flourish , and Shout .
Bru .
What meanes this Showting ?
I do feare , the People choose Caesar For their King
Cassi .
I , do you feare it ?
Then must I thinke you would not haue it so
Bru .
I would not Cassius , yet I loue him well : But wherefore do you hold me heere so long ?
What is it , that you would impart to me ?
If it be ought toward the generall good , Set Honor in one eye , and Death i ' th other , And I will looke on both indifferently : For let the Gods so speed mee , as I loue The name of Honor , more then I feare death
Cassi .
I know that vertue to be in you Brutus , As well as I do know your outward fauour .
Well , Honor is the subiect of my Story : I cannot tell , what you and other men Thinke of this life : But for my single selfe , I had as liefe not be , as liue to be In awe of such a Thing , as I my selfe .
I was borne free as Caesar , so were you , We both haue fed as well , and we can both Endure the Winters cold , as well as hee .
For once , vpon a Rawe and Gustie day , The troubled Tyber , chafing with her Shores , Caesar saide to me , Dar ' st thou Cassius now Leape in with me into this angry Flood , And swim to yonder Point ?
Vpon the word , Accoutred as I was , I plunged in , And bad him follow : so indeed he did .
The Torrent roar ' d , and we did buffet it With lusty Sinewes , throwing it aside , And stemming it with hearts of Controuersie .
But ere we could arriue the Point propos ' d , Caesar cride , Helpe me Cassius , or I sinke .
I ( as Aeneas , our great Ancestor , Did from the Flames of Troy , vpon his shoulder The old Anchyses beare ) so , from the waues of Tyber Did I the tyred Caesar : And this Man , Is now become a God , and Cassius is A wretched Creature , and must bend his body , If Caesar carelesly but nod on him .
He had a Feauer when he was in Spaine , And when the Fit was on him , I did marke How he did shake : Tis true , this God did shake , His Coward lippes did from their colour flye , And that same Eye , whose bend doth awe the World , Did loose his Lustre : I did heare him grone : I , and that Tongue of his , that bad the Romans Marke him , and write his Speeches in their Bookes , Alas , it cried , Giue me some drinke Titinius , As a sicke Girle : Ye Gods , it doth amaze me , A man of such a feeble temper should So get the start of the Maiesticke world , And beare the Palme alone .
Shout .
Flourish .
Bru .
Another generall shout ?
I do beleeue , that these applauses are For some new Honors , that are heap ' d on Caesar
Cassi .
Why man , he doth bestride the narrow world Like a Colossus , and we petty men Walke vnder his huge legges , and peepe about To finde our selues dishonourable Graues .
Men at sometime , are Masters of their Fates .
The fault ( deere Brutus ) is not in our Starres , But in our Selues , that we are vnderlings .
Brutus and Caesar : What should be in that Caesar ?
Why should that name be sounded more then yours Write them together : Yours , is as faire a Name : Sound them , it doth become the mouth aswell : Weigh them , it is as heauy : Coniure with ' em , Brutus will start a Spirit as soone as Caesar .
Now in the names of all the Gods at once , Vpon what meate doth this our Caesar feede , That he is growne so great ?
Age , thou art sham ' d .
Rome , thou hast lost the breed of Noble Bloods .
When went there by an Age , since the great Flood , But it was fam ' d with more then with one man ?
When could they say ( till now ) that talk ' d of Rome , That her wide Walkes incompast but one man ?
Now is it Rome indeed , and Roome enough When there is in it but one onely man .
O !
you and I , haue heard our Fathers say , There was a Brutus once , that would haue brook ' d Th ' eternall Diuell to keepe his State in Rome , As easily as a King
Bru .
That you do loue me , I am nothing iealous : What you would worke me too , I haue some ayme : How I haue thought of this , and of these times I shall recount heereafter .
For this present , I would not so ( with loue I might intreat you ) Be any further moou ' d : What you haue said , I will consider : what you haue to say I will with patience heare , and finde a time Both meete to heare , and answer such high things .
Till then , my Noble Friend , chew vpon this : Brutus had rather be a Villager , Then to repute himselfe a Sonne of Rome Vnder these hard Conditions , as this time Is like to lay vpon vs
Cassi .
I am glad that my weake words Haue strucke but thus much shew of fire from Brutus , Enter Caesar and his Traine .
Bru .
The Games are done , And Caesar is returning
Cassi .
As they passe by , Plucke Caska by the Sleeue , And he will ( after his sowre fashion ) tell you What hath proceeded worthy note to day
Bru .
I will do so : but looke you Cassius , The angry spot doth glow on Caesars brow , And all the rest , looke like a chidden Traine ; Calphurnia ' s Cheeke is pale , and Cicero Lookes with such Ferret , and such fiery eyes As we haue seene him in the Capitoll Being crost in Conference , by some Senators
Cassi .
Caska will tell vs what the matter is
Caes Antonio
Ant .
Caesar
Caes Let me haue men about me , that are fat , Sleeke - headed men , and such as sleepe a - nights : Yond Cassius has a leane and hungry looke , He thinkes too much : such men are dangerous
Ant .
Feare him not Caesar , he ' s not dangerous , He is a Noble Roman , and well giuen
Caes Would he were fatter ; But I feare him not : Yet if my name were lyable to feare , I do not know the man I should auoyd So soone as that spare Cassius .
He reades much , He is a great Obseruer , and he lookes Quite through the Deeds of men .
He loues no Playes , As thou dost Antony : he heares no Musicke ; Seldome he smiles , and smiles in such a sort As if he mock ' d himselfe , and scorn ' d his spirit That could be mou ' d to smile at any thing .
Such men as he , be neuer at hearts ease , Whiles they behold a greater then themselues , And therefore are they very dangerous .
I rather tell thee what is to be fear ' d , Then what I feare : for alwayes I am Caesar .
Come on my right hand , for this eare is deafe , And tell me truely , what thou think ' st of him .
Sennit .
Exeunt .
Caesar and his Traine .
Cask .
You pul ' d me by the cloake , would you speake with me ?
Bru .
I Caska , tell vs what hath chanc ' d to day That Caesar lookes so sad
Cask .
Why you were with him , were you not ?
Bru .
I should not then aske Caska what had chanc ' d
Cask .
Why there was a Crowne offer ' d him ; & being offer ' d him , he put it by with the backe of his hand thus , and then the people fell a shouting
Bru .
What was the second noyse for ?
Cask .
Why for that too
Cassi .
They shouted thrice : what was the last cry for ?
Cask .
Why for that too
Bru .
Was the Crowne offer ' d him thrice ?
Cask .
I marry was ' t , and hee put it by thrice , euerie time gentler then other ; and at euery putting by , mine honest Neighbors showted
Cassi .
Who offer ' d him the Crowne ?
Cask .
Why Antony
Bru .
Tell vs the manner of it , gentle Caska
Caska .
I can as well bee hang ' d as tell the manner of it : It was meere Foolerie , I did not marke it .
I sawe Marke Antony offer him a Crowne , yet ' twas not a Crowne neyther , ' twas one of these Coronets : and as I told you , hee put it by once : but for all that , to my thinking , he would faine haue had it .
Then hee offered it to him againe : then hee put it by againe : but to my thinking , he was very loath to lay his fingers off it .
And then he offered it the third time ; hee put it the third time by , and still as hee refus ' d it , the rabblement howted , and clapp ' d their chopt hands , and threw vppe their sweatie Night - cappes , and vttered such a deale of stinking breath , because Caesar refus ' d the Crowne , that it had ( almost ) choaked Caesar : for hee swoonded , and fell downe at it : And for mine owne part , I durst not laugh , for feare of opening my Lippes , and receyuing the bad Ayre
Cassi .
But soft I pray you : what , did Caesar swound ?
Cask .
He fell downe in the Market - place , and foam ' d at mouth , and was speechlesse
Brut .
' Tis very like he hath the Falling sicknesse
Cassi .
No , Caesar hath it not : but you , and I , And honest Caska , we haue the Falling sicknesse
Cask .
I know not what you meane by that , but I am sure Caesar fell downe .
If the tag - ragge people did not clap him , and hisse him , according as he pleas ' d , and displeas ' d them , as they vse to doe the Players in the Theatre , I am no true man
Brut .
What said he , when he came vnto himselfe ?
Cask .
Marry , before he fell downe , when he perceiu ' d the common Heard was glad he refus ' d the Crowne , he pluckt me ope his Doublet , and offer ' d them his Throat to cut : and I had beene a man of any Occupation , if I would not haue taken him at a word , I would I might goe to Hell among the Rogues , and so hee fell .
When he came to himselfe againe , hee said , If hee had done , or said any thing amisse , he desir ' d their Worships to thinke it was his infirmitie .
Three or foure Wenches where I stood , cryed , Alasse good Soule , and forgaue him with all their hearts : But there ' s no heed to be taken of them ; if Caesar had stab ' d their Mothers , they would haue done no lesse
Brut .
And after that , he came thus sad away
Cask .
I
Cassi .
Did Cicero say any thing ?
Cask .
I , he spoke Greeke
Cassi .
To what effect ?
Cask .
Nay , and I tell you that , Ile ne ' re looke you i ' th ' face againe .
But those that vnderstood him , smil ' d at one another , and shooke their heads : but for mine owne part , it was Greeke to me .
I could tell you more newes too : Murrellus and Flauius , for pulling Scarffes off Caesars Images , are put to silence .
Fare you well .
There was more Foolerie yet , if I could remember it
Cassi .
Will you suppe with me to Night , Caska ?
Cask .
No , I am promis ' d forth
Cassi .
Will you Dine with me to morrow ?
Cask .
I , if I be aliue , and your minde hold , and your Dinner worth the eating
Cassi .
Good , I will expect you
Cask .
Doe so : farewell both .
Enter .
Brut .
What a blunt fellow is this growne to be ?
He was quick Mettle , when he went to Schoole
Cassi .
So is he now , in execution Of any bold , or Noble Enterprize , How - euer he puts on this tardie forme : This Rudenesse is a Sawce to his good Wit , Which giues men stomacke to disgest his words With better Appetite
Brut .
And so it is : For this time I will leaue you : To morrow , if you please to speake with me , I will come home to you : or if you will , Come home to me , and I will wait for you
Cassi .
I will doe so : till then , thinke of the World .
Exit Brutus .
Well Brutus , thou art Noble : yet I see , Thy Honorable Mettle may be wrought From that it is dispos ' d : therefore it is meet , That Noble mindes keepe euer with their likes : For who so firme , that cannot be seduc ' d ?
Caesar doth beare me hard , but he loues Brutus .
If I were Brutus now , and he were Cassius , He should not humor me .
I will this Night , In seuerall Hands , in at his Windowes throw , As if they came from seuerall Citizens , Writings , all tending to the great opinion That Rome holds of his Name : wherein obscurely Caesars Ambition shall be glanced at .
And after this , let Caesar seat him sure , For wee will shake him , or worse dayes endure .
Enter .
Thunder , and Lightning .
Enter Caska , and Cicero .
Cic .
Good euen , Caska : brought you Caesar home ?
Why are you breathlesse , and why stare you so ?
Cask .
Are not you mou ' d , when all the sway of Earth Shakes , like a thing vnfirme ?
O Cicero , I haue seene Tempests , when the scolding Winds Haue riu ' d the knottie Oakes , and I haue seene Th ' ambitious Ocean swell , and rage , and foame , To be exalted with the threatning Clouds : But neuer till to Night , neuer till now , Did I goe through a Tempest - dropping - fire .
Eyther there is a Ciuill strife in Heauen , Or else the World , too sawcie with the Gods , Incenses them to send destruction
Cic .
Why , saw you any thing more wonderfull ?
Cask .
A common slaue , you know him well by sight , Held vp his left Hand , which did flame and burne Like twentie Torches ioyn ' d ; and yet his Hand , Not sensible of fire , remain ' d vnscorch ' d .
Besides , I ha ' not since put vp my Sword , Against the Capitoll I met a Lyon , Who glaz ' d vpon me , and went surly by , Without annoying me .
And there were drawne Vpon a heape , a hundred gastly Women , Transformed with their feare , who swore , they saw Men , all in fire , walke vp and downe the streetes .
And yesterday , the Bird of Night did sit , Euen at Noone - day , vpon the Market place , Howting , and shreeking .
When these Prodigies Doe so conioyntly meet , let not men say , These are their Reasons , they are Naturall : For I beleeue , they are portentous things Vnto the Clymate , that they point vpon
Cic .
Indeed , it is a strange disposed time : But men may construe things after their fashion , Cleane from the purpose of the things themselues .
Comes Caesar to the Capitoll to morrow ?
Cask .
He doth : for he did bid Antonio Send word to you , he would be there to morrow
Cic .
Good - night then , Caska : This disturbed Skie is not to walke in
Cask .
Farewell Cicero .
Exit Cicero .
Enter Cassius .
Cassi .
Who ' s there ?
Cask .
A Romane
Cassi .
Caska , by your Voyce
Cask .
Your Eare is good .
Cassius , what Night is this ?
Cassi .
A very pleasing Night to honest men
Cask .
Who euer knew the Heauens menace so ?
Cassi .
Those that haue knowne the Earth so full of faults .
For my part , I haue walk ' d about the streets , Submitting me vnto the perillous Night ; And thus vnbraced , Caska , as you see , Haue bar ' d my Bosome to the Thunder - stone : And when the crosse blew Lightning seem ' d to open The Brest of Heauen , I did present my selfe Euen in the ayme , and very flash of it
Cask .
But wherefore did you so much tempt the Heauens ?
It is the part of men , to feare and tremble , When the most mightie Gods , by tokens send Such dreadfull Heraulds , to astonish vs
Cassi .
You are dull , Caska : And those sparkes of Life , that should be in a Roman , You doe want , or else you vse not .
You looke pale , and gaze , and put on feare , And cast your selfe in wonder , To see the strange impatience of the Heauens : But if you would consider the true cause , Why all these Fires , why all these gliding Ghosts , Why Birds and Beasts , from qualitie and kinde , Why Old men , Fooles , and Children calculate , Why all these things change from their Ordinance , Their Natures , and pre - formed Faculties , To monstrous qualitie ; why you shall finde , That Heauen hath infus ' d them with these Spirits , To make them Instruments of feare , and warning , Vnto some monstrous State .
Now could I ( Caska ) name to thee a man , Most like this dreadfull Night , That Thunders , Lightens , opens Graues , and roares , As doth the Lyon in the Capitoll : A man no mightier then thy selfe , or me , In personall action ; yet prodigious growne , And fearefull , as these strange eruptions are
Cask .
' Tis Caesar that you meane : Is it not , Cassius ?
Cassi .
Let it be who it is : for Romans now Haue Thewes , and Limbes , like to their Ancestors ; But woe the while , our Fathers mindes are dead , And we are gouern ' d with our Mothers spirits , Our yoake , and sufferance , shew vs Womanish
Cask .
Indeed , they say , the Senators to morrow Meane to establish Caesar as a King : And he shall weare his Crowne by Sea , and Land , In euery place , saue here in Italy
Cassi .
I know where I will weare this Dagger then ; Cassius from Bondage will deliuer Cassius : Therein , yee Gods , you make the weake most strong ; Therein , yee Gods , you Tyrants doe defeat .
Nor Stonie Tower , nor Walls of beaten Brasse , Nor ayre - lesse Dungeon , nor strong Linkes of Iron , Can be retentiue to the strength of spirit : But Life being wearie of these worldly Barres , Neuer lacks power to dismisse it selfe .
If I know this , know all the World besides , That part of Tyrannie that I doe beare , I can shake off at pleasure .
Thunder still .
Cask .
So can I : So euery Bond - man in his owne hand beares The power to cancell his Captiuitie
Cassi .
And why should Caesar be a Tyrant then ?
Poore man , I know he would not be a Wolfe , But that he sees the Romans are but Sheepe : He were no Lyon , were not Romans Hindes .
Those that with haste will make a mightie fire , Begin it with weake Strawes .
What trash is Rome ?
What Rubbish , and what Offall ?
when it serues For the base matter , to illuminate So vile a thing as Caesar .
But oh Griefe , Where hast thou led me ?
I ( perhaps ) speake this Before a willing Bond - man : then I know My answere must be made .
But I am arm ' d , And dangers are to me indifferent
Cask .
You speake to Caska , and to such a man , That is no flearing Tell - tale .
Hold , my Hand : Be factious for redresse of all these Griefes , And I will set this foot of mine as farre , As who goes farthest
Cassi .
There ' s a Bargaine made .
Now know you , Caska , I haue mou ' d already Some certaine of the Noblest minded Romans To vnder - goe , with me , an Enterprize , Of Honorable dangerous consequence ; And I doe know by this , they stay for me In Pompeyes Porch : for now this fearefull Night , There is no stirre , or walking in the streetes ; And the Complexion of the Element Is Fauors , like the Worke we haue in hand , Most bloodie , fierie , and most terrible .
Enter Cinna .
Caska .
Stand close a while , for heere comes one in haste
Cassi .
' Tis Cinna , I doe know him by his Gate , He is a friend .
Cinna , where haste you so ?
Cinna .
To finde out you : Who ' s that , Metellus Cymber ?
Cassi .
No , it is Caska , one incorporate To our Attempts .
Am I not stay ' d for , Cinna ?
Cinna .
I am glad on ' t .
What a fearefull Night is this ?
There ' s two or three of vs haue seene strange sights
Cassi .
Am I not stay ' d for ?
tell me
Cinna .
Yes , you are .
O Cassius , If you could but winne the Noble Brutus To our party - Cassi .
Be you content .
Good Cinna , take this Paper , And looke you lay it in the Pretors Chayre , Where Brutus may but finde it : and throw this In at his Window ; set this vp with Waxe Vpon old Brutus Statue : all this done , Repaire to Pompeyes Porch , where you shall finde vs . Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius there ?
Cinna .
All , but Metellus Cymber , and hee ' s gone To seeke you at your house .
Well , I will hie , And so bestow these Papers as you bad me
Cassi .
That done , repayre to Pompeyes Theater .
Exit Cinna .
Come Caska , you and I will yet , ere day , See Brutus at his house : three parts of him Is ours alreadie , and the man entire Vpon the next encounter , yeelds him ours
Cask .
O , he sits high in all the Peoples hearts : And that which would appeare Offence in vs , His Countenance , like richest Alchymie , Will change to Vertue , and to Worthinesse
Cassi .
Him , and his worth , and our great need of him , You haue right well conceited : let vs goe , For it is after Mid - night , and ere day , We will awake him , and be sure of him .
Exeunt .
Actus Secundus .
Enter Brutus in his Orchard .
Brut .
What Lucius , hoe ?
I cannot , by the progresse of the Starres , Giue guesse how neere to day - Lucius , I say ?
I would it were my fault to sleepe so soundly .
When Lucius , when ?
awake , I say : what Lucius ?
Enter Lucius .
Luc .
Call ' d you , my Lord ?
Brut .
Get me a Tapor in my Study , Lucius : When it is lighted , come and call me here
Luc .
I will , my Lord .
Enter .
Brut .
It must be by his death : and for my part , I know no personall cause , to spurne at him , But for the generall .
He would be crown ' d : How that might change his nature , there ' s the question ?
It is the bright day , that brings forth the Adder , And that craues warie walking : Crowne him that , And then I graunt we put a Sting in him , That at his will he may doe danger with .
Th ' abuse of Greatnesse , is , when it dis - ioynes Remorse from Power : And to speake truth of Caesar , I haue not knowne , when his Affections sway ' d More then his Reason .
But ' tis a common proofe , That Lowlynesse is young Ambitions Ladder , Whereto the Climber vpward turnes his Face : But when he once attaines the vpmost Round , He then vnto the Ladder turnes his Backe , Lookes in the Clouds , scorning the base degrees By which he did ascend : so Caesar may ; Then least he may , preuent .
And since the Quarrell Will beare no colour , for the thing he is , Fashion it thus ; that what he is , augmented , Would runne to these , and these extremities : And therefore thinke him as a Serpents egge , Which hatch ' d , would as his kinde grow mischieuous ; And kill him in the shell .
Enter Lucius .
Luc .
The Taper burneth in your Closet , Sir : Searching the Window for a Flint , I found This Paper , thus seal ' d vp , and I am sure It did not lye there when I went to Bed .
Giues him the Letter .
Brut .
Get you to Bed againe , it is not day : Is not to morrow ( Boy ) the first of March ?
Luc .
I know not , Sir
Brut .
Looke in the Calender , and bring me word
Luc .
I will , Sir .
Enter .
Brut .
The exhalations , whizzing in the ayre , Giue so much light , that I may reade by them .
Opens the Letter , and reades .
Brutus thou sleep ' st ; awake , and see thy selfe : Shall Rome , & c . speake , strike , redresse .
Brutus , thou sleep ' st : awake .
Such instigations haue beene often dropt , Where I haue tooke them vp : Shall Rome , & c . Thus must I piece it out : Shall Rome stand vnder one mans awe ?
What Rome ?
My Ancestors did from the streetes of Rome The Tarquin driue , when he was call ' d a King .
Speake , strike , redresse .
Am I entreated To speake , and strike ?
O Rome , I make thee promise , If the redresse will follow , thou receiuest Thy full Petition at the hand of Brutus .
Enter Lucius .
Luc .
Sir , March is wasted fifteene dayes .
Knocke within .
Brut .
' Tis good .
Go to the Gate , some body knocks : Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar , I haue not slept .
Betweene the acting of a dreadfull thing , And the first motion , all the Interim is Like a Phantasma , or a hideous Dreame : The Genius , and the mortall Instruments Are then in councell ; and the state of a man , Like to a little Kingdome , suffers then The nature of an Insurrection .
Enter Lucius .
Luc .
Sir , ' tis your Brother Cassius at the Doore , Who doth desire to see you
Brut .
Is he alone ?
Luc .
No , Sir , there are moe with him
Brut .
Doe you know them ?
Luc .
No , Sir , their Hats are pluckt about their Eares , And halfe their Faces buried in their Cloakes , That by no meanes I may discouer them , By any marke of fauour
Brut .
Let ' em enter : They are the Faction .
O Conspiracie , Sham ' st thou to shew thy dang ' rous Brow by Night , When euills are most free ?
O then , by day Where wilt thou finde a Cauerne darke enough , To maske thy monstrous Visage ?
Seek none Conspiracie , Hide it in Smiles , and Affabilitie : For if thou path thy natiue semblance on , Not Erebus it selfe were dimme enough , To hide thee from preuention .
Enter the Conspirators , Cassius , Caska , Decius , Cinna , Metellus , and Trebonius .
Cass .
I thinke we are too bold vpon your Rest : Good morrow Brutus , doe we trouble you ?
Brut .
I haue beene vp this howre , awake all Night : Know I these men , that come along with you ?
Cass .
Yes , euery man of them ; and no man here But honors you : and euery one doth wish , You had but that opinion of your selfe , Which euery Noble Roman beares of you .
This is Trebonius
Brut .
He is welcome hither
Cass .
This , Decius Brutus
Brut .
He is welcome too
Cass .
This , Caska ; this , Cinna ; and this , Metellus Cymber
Brut .
They are all welcome .
What watchfull Cares doe interpose themselues Betwixt your Eyes , and Night ?
Cass .
Shall I entreat a word ?
They whisper .
Decius .
Here lyes the East : doth not the Day breake heere ?
Cask .
No
Cin .
O pardon , Sir , it doth ; and yon grey Lines , That fret the Clouds , are Messengers of Day
Cask .
You shall confesse , that you are both deceiu ' d : Heere , as I point my Sword , the Sunne arises , Which is a great way growing on the South , Weighing the youthfull Season of the yeare .
Some two moneths hence , vp higher toward the North He first presents his fire , and the high East Stands as the Capitoll , directly heere
Bru .
Giue me your hands all ouer , one by one
Cas .
And let vs sweare our Resolution
Brut .
No , not an Oath : if not the Face of men , The sufferance of our Soules , the times Abuse ; If these be Motiues weake , breake off betimes , And euery man hence , to his idle bed : So let high - sighted - Tyranny range on , Till each man drop by Lottery .
But if these ( As I am sure they do ) beare fire enough To kindle Cowards , and to steele with valour The melting Spirits of women .
Then Countrymen , What neede we any spurre , but our owne cause To pricke vs to redresse ?
What other Bond , Then secret Romans , that haue spoke the word , And will not palter ?
And what other Oath , Then Honesty to Honesty ingag ' d , That this shall be , or we will fall for it .
Sweare Priests and Cowards , and men Cautelous Old feeble Carrions , and such suffering Soules That welcome wrongs : Vnto bad causes , sweare Such Creatures as men doubt ; but do not staine The euen vertue of our Enterprize , Nor th ' insuppressiue Mettle of our Spirits , To thinke , that or our Cause , or our Performance Did neede an Oath .
When euery drop of blood That euery Roman beares , and Nobly beares Is guilty of a seuerall Bastardie , If he do breake the smallest Particle Of any promise that hath past from him
Cas .
But what of Cicero ?
Shall we sound him ?
I thinke he will stand very strong with vs
Cask .
Let vs not leaue him out
Cyn .
No , by no meanes
Metel .
O let vs haue him , for his Siluer haires Will purchase vs a good opinion : And buy mens voyces , to commend our deeds : It shall be sayd , his iudgement rul ' d our hands , Our youths , and wildenesse , shall no whit appeare , But all be buried in his Grauity
Bru .
O name him not ; let vs not breake with him , For he will neuer follow any thing That other men begin
Cas .
Then leaue him out
Cask .
Indeed , he is not fit
Decius .
Shall no man else be toucht , but onely Caesar ?
Cas .
Decius well vrg ' d : I thinke it is not meet , Marke Antony , so well belou ' d of Caesar , Should out - liue Caesar , we shall finde of him A shrew ' d Contriuer .
And you know , his meanes If he improue them , may well stretch so farre As to annoy vs all : which to preuent , Let Antony and Caesar fall together
Bru .
Our course will seeme too bloody , Caius Cassius , To cut the Head off , and then hacke the Limbes : Like Wrath in death , and Enuy afterwards : For Antony , is but a Limbe of Caesar .
Let ' s be Sacrificers , but not Butchers Caius : We all stand vp against the spirit of Caesar , And in the Spirit of men , there is no blood : O that we then could come by Caesars Spirit , And not dismember Caesar !
But ( alas ) Caesar must bleed for it .
And gentle Friends , Let ' s kill him Boldly , but not Wrathfully : Let ' s carue him , as a Dish fit for the Gods , Not hew him as a Carkasse fit for Hounds : And let our Hearts , as subtle Masters do , Stirre vp their Seruants to an acte of Rage , And after seeme to chide ' em .
This shall make Our purpose Necessary , and not Enuious .
Which so appearing to the common eyes , We shall be call ' d Purgers , not Murderers .
And for Marke Antony , thinke not of him : For he can do no more then Caesars Arme , When Caesars head is off
Cas .
Yet I feare him , For in the ingrafted loue he beares to Caesar
Bru .
Alas , good Cassius , do not thinke of him : If he loue Caesar , all that he can do Is to himselfe ; take thought , and dye for Caesar , And that were much he should : for he is giuen To sports , to wildenesse , and much company
Treb .
There is no feare in him ; let him not dye , For he will liue , and laugh at this heereafter .
Clocke strikes .
Bru .
Peace , count the Clocke
Cas .
The Clocke hath stricken three
Treb .
' Tis time to part
Cass .
But it is doubtfull yet , Whether Caesar will come forth to day , or no : For he is Superstitious growne of late , Quite from the maine Opinion he held once , Of Fantasie , of Dreames , and Ceremonies : It may be , these apparant Prodigies , The vnaccustom ' d Terror of this night , And the perswasion of his Augurers , May hold him from the Capitoll to day
Decius .
Neuer feare that : If he be so resolu ' d , I can ore - sway him : For he loues to heare , That Vnicornes may be betray ' d with Trees , And Beares with Glasses , Elephants with Holes , Lyons with Toyles , and men with Flatterers .
But , when I tell him , he hates Flatterers , He sayes , he does ; being then most flattered .
Let me worke : For I can giue his humour the true bent ; And I will bring him to the Capitoll
Cas .
Nay , we will all of vs , be there to fetch him
Bru .
By the eight houre , is that the vttermost ?
Cin .
Be that the vttermost , and faile not then
Met .
Caius Ligarius doth beare Caesar hard , Who rated him for speaking well of Pompey ; I wonder none of you haue thought of him
Bru .
Now good Metellus go along by him : He loues me well , and I haue giuen him Reasons , Send him but hither , and Ile fashion him
Cas .
The morning comes vpon ' s : Wee ' l leaue you Brutus , And Friends disperse your selues ; but all remember What you haue said , and shew your selues true Romans
Bru .
Good Gentlemen , looke fresh and merrily , Let not our lookes put on our purposes , But beare it as our Roman Actors do , With vntyr ' d Spirits , and formall Constancie , And so good morrow to you euery one .
Exeunt .
Manet Brutus .
Boy : Lucius : Fast asleepe ?
It is no matter , Enioy the hony - heauy - Dew of Slumber : Thou hast no Figures , nor no Fantasies , Which busie care drawes , in the braines of men ; Therefore thou sleep ' st so sound .
Enter Portia .
Por .
Brutus , my Lord
Bru .
Portia : What meane you ?
wherfore rise you now ?
It is not for your health , thus to commit Your weake condition , to the raw cold morning
Por .
Nor for yours neither .
Y ' haue vngently Brutus Stole from my bed : and yesternight at Supper You sodainly arose , and walk ' d about , Musing , and sighing , with your armes acrosse And when I ask ' d you what the matter was , You star ' d vpon me , with vngentle lookes .
I vrg ' d you further , then you scratch ' d your head , And too impatiently stampt with your foote : Yet I insisted , yet you answer ' d not , But with an angry wafter of your hand Gaue signe for me to leaue you : So I did , Fearing to strengthen that impatience Which seem ' d too much inkindled ; and withall , Hoping it was but an effect of Humor , Which sometime hath his houre with euery man .
It will not let you eate , nor talke , nor sleepe ; And could it worke so much vpon your shape , As it hath much preuayl ' d on your Condition , I should not know you Brutus .
Deare my Lord , Make me acquainted with your cause of greefe
Bru .
I am not well in health , and that is all
Por .
Brutus is wise , and were he not in health , He would embrace the meanes to come by it
Bru .
Why so I do : good Portia go to bed
Por .
Is Brutus sicke ?
And is it Physicall To walke vnbraced , and sucke vp the humours Of the danke Morning ?
What , is Brutus sicke ?
And will he steale out of his wholsome bed To dare the vile contagion of the Night ?
And tempt the Rhewmy , and vnpurged Ayre , To adde vnto his sicknesse ?
No my Brutus , You haue some sicke Offence within your minde , Which by the Right and Vertue of my place I ought to know of : And vpon my knees , I charme you , by my once commended Beauty , By all your vowes of Loue , and that great Vow Which did incorporate and make vs one , That you vnfold to me , your selfe ; your halfe Why you are heauy : and what men to night Haue had resort to you : for heere haue beene Some sixe or seuen , who did hide their faces Euen from darknesse
Bru .
Kneele not gentle Portia
Por .
I should not neede , if you were gentle Brutus .
Within the Bond of Marriage , tell me Brutus , Is it excepted , I should know no Secrets That appertaine to you ?
Am I your Selfe , But as it were in sort , or limitation ?
To keepe with you at Meales , comfort your Bed , And talke to you sometimes ?
Dwell I but in the Suburbs Of your good pleasure ?
If it be no more , Portia is Brutus Harlot , not his Wife
Bru .
You are my true and honourable Wife , As deere to me , as are the ruddy droppes That visit my sad heart
Por .
If this were true , then should I know this secret .
I graunt I am a Woman ; but withall , A Woman that Lord Brutus tooke to Wife : I graunt I am a Woman ; but withall , A Woman well reputed : Cato ' s Daughter .
Thinke you , I am no stronger then my Sex Being so Father ' d , and so Husbanded ?
Tell me your Counsels , I will not disclose ' em : I haue made strong proofe of my Constancie , Giuing my selfe a voluntary wound Heere , in the Thigh : Can I beare that with patience , And not my Husbands Secrets ?
Bru .
O ye Gods !
Render me worthy of this Noble Wife .
Knocke .
Harke , harke , one knockes : Portia go in a while , And by and by thy bosome shall partake The secrets of my Heart .
All my engagements , I will construe to thee , All the Charractery of my sad browes : Leaue me with hast .
Exit Portia .
Enter Lucius and Ligarius .
Lucius , who ' s that knockes
Luc .
Heere is a sicke man that would speak with you
Bru .
Caius Ligarius , that Metellus spake of .
Boy , stand aside .
Caius Ligarius , how ?
Cai .
Vouchsafe good morrow from a feeble tongue
Bru .
O what a time haue you chose out braue Caius To weare a Kerchiefe ?
Would you were not sicke
Cai .
I am not sicke , if Brutus haue in hand Any exploit worthy the name of Honor
Bru .
Such an exploit haue I in hand Ligarius , Had you a healthfull eare to heare of it
Cai .
By all the Gods that Romans bow before , I heere discard my sicknesse .
Soule of Rome , Braue Sonne , deriu ' d from Honourable Loines , Thou like an Exorcist , hast coniur ' d vp My mortified Spirit .
Now bid me runne , And I will striue with things impossible , Yea get the better of them .
What ' s to do ?
Bru .
A peece of worke , That will make sicke men whole
Cai .
But are not some whole , that we must make sicke ?
Bru .
That must we also .
What it is my Caius , I shall vnfold to thee , as we are going , To whom it must be done
Cai .
Set on your foote , And with a heart new - fir ' d , I follow you , To do I know not what : but it sufficeth That Brutus leads me on .
Thunder
Bru .
Follow me then .
Exeunt .
Thunder & Lightning
Enter Iulius Caesar in his Night - gowne .
Caesar .
Nor Heauen , nor Earth , Haue beene at peace to night : Thrice hath Calphurnia , in her sleepe cryed out , Helpe , ho : They murther Caesar .
Who ' s within ?
Enter a Seruant .
Ser .
My Lord
Caes Go bid the Priests do present Sacrifice , And bring me their opinions of Successe
Ser .
I will my Lord .
Exit
Enter Calphurnia .
Cal .
What mean you Caesar ?
Think you to walk forth ?
You shall not stirre out of your house to day
Caes Caesar shall forth ; the things that threaten ' d me , Ne ' re look ' d but on my backe : When they shall see The face of Caesar , they are vanished
Calp .
Caesar , I neuer stood on Ceremonies , Yet now they fright me : There is one within , Besides the things that we haue heard and seene , Recounts most horrid sights seene by the Watch .
A Lionnesse hath whelped in the streets , And Graues haue yawn ' d , and yeelded vp their dead ; Fierce fiery Warriours fight vpon the Clouds In Rankes and Squadrons , and right forme of Warre Which drizel ' d blood vpon the Capitoll : The noise of Battell hurtled in the Ayre : Horsses do neigh , and dying men did grone , And Ghosts did shrieke and squeale about the streets .
O Caesar , these things are beyond all vse , And I do feare them
Caes What can be auoyded Whose end is purpos ' d by the mighty Gods ?
Yet Caesar shall go forth : for these Predictions Are to the world in generall , as to Caesar
Calp .
When Beggers dye , there are no Comets seen , The Heauens themselues blaze forth the death of Princes Caes Cowards dye many times before their deaths , The valiant neuer taste of death but once : Of all the Wonders that I yet haue heard , It seemes to me most strange that men should feare , Seeing that death , a necessary end Will come , when it will come .
Enter a Seruant .
What say the Augurers ?
Ser .
They would not haue you to stirre forth to day .
Plucking the intrailes of an Offering forth , They could not finde a heart within the beast
Caes The Gods do this in shame of Cowardice : Caesar should be a Beast without a heart If he should stay at home to day for feare : No Caesar shall not ; Danger knowes full well That Caesar is more dangerous then he .
We heare two Lyons litter ' d in one day , And I the elder and more terrible , And Caesar shall go foorth
Calp .
Alas my Lord , Your wisedome is consum ' d in confidence : Do not go forth to day : Call it my feare , That keepes you in the house , and not your owne .
Wee ' l send Mark Antony to the Senate house , And he shall say , you are not well to day : Let me vpon my knee , preuaile in this
Caes Mark Antony shall say I am not well , And for thy humor , I will stay at home .
Enter Decius .
Heere ' s Decius Brutus , he shall tell them so
Deci .
Caesar , all haile : Good morrow worthy Caesar , I come to fetch you to the Senate house
Caes And you are come in very happy time , To beare my greeting to the Senators , And tell them that I will not come to day : Cannot , is false : and that I dare not , falser : I will not come to day , tell them so Decius
Calp .
Say he is sicke
Caes Shall Caesar send a Lye ?
Haue I in Conquest stretcht mine Arme so farre , To be afear ' d to tell Gray - beards the truth : Decius , go tell them , Caesar will not come
Deci .
Most mighty Caesar , let me know some cause , Lest I be laught at when I tell them so
Caes The cause is in my Will , I will not come , That is enough to satisfie the Senate .
But for your priuate satisfaction , Because I loue you , I will let you know .
Calphurnia heere my wife , stayes me at home : She dreampt to night , she saw my Statue , Which like a Fountaine , with an hundred spouts Did run pure blood : and many lusty Romans Came smiling , & did bathe their hands in it : And these does she apply , for warnings and portents , And euils imminent ; and on her knee Hath begg ' d , that I will stay at home to day
Deci .
This Dreame is all amisse interpreted , It was a vision , faire and fortunate : Your Statue spouting blood in many pipes , In which so many smiling Romans bath ' d , Signifies , that from you great Rome shall sucke Reuiuing blood , and that great men shall presse For Tinctures , Staines , Reliques , and Cognisance .
This by Calphurnia ' s Dreame is signified
Caes And this way haue you well expounded it
Deci .
I haue , when you haue heard what I can say : And know it now , the Senate haue concluded To giue this day , a Crowne to mighty Caesar .
If you shall send them word you will not come , Their mindes may change .
Besides , it were a mocke Apt to be render ' d , for some one to say , Breake vp the Senate , till another time : When Caesars wife shall meete with better Dreames .
If Caesar hide himselfe , shall they not whisper Loe Caesar is affraid ?
Pardon me Caesar , for my deere deere loue To your proceeding , bids me tell you this : And reason to my loue is liable
Caes How foolish do your fears seeme now Calphurnia ?
I am ashamed I did yeeld to them .
Giue me my Robe , for I will go .
Enter Brutus , Ligarius , Metellus , Caska , Trebonius , Cynna , and Publius .
And looke where Publius is come to fetch me
Pub .
Good morrow Caesar
Caes Welcome Publius .
What Brutus , are you stirr ' d so earely too ?
Good morrow Caska : Caius Ligarius , Caesar was ne ' re so much your enemy , As that same Ague which hath made you leane .
What is ' t a Clocke ?
Bru .
Caesar , ' tis strucken eight
Caes I thanke you for your paines and curtesie .
Enter Antony .
See , Antony that Reuels long a - nights Is notwithstanding vp .
Good morrow Antony
Ant .
So to most Noble Caesar
Caes Bid them prepare within : I am too blame to be thus waited for .
Now Cynna , now Metellus : what Trebonius , I haue an houres talke in store for you : Remember that you call on me to day : Be neere me , that I may remember you
Treb .
Caesar I will : and so neere will I be , That your best Friends shall wish I had beene further
Caes Good Friends go in , and taste some wine with me .
And we ( like Friends ) will straight way go together
Bru .
That euery like is not the same , O Caesar , The heart of Brutus earnes to thinke vpon .
Exeunt .
Enter Artemidorus .
Caesar , beware of Brutus , take heede of Cassius ; come not neere Caska , haue an eye to Cynna , trust not Trebonius , marke well Metellus Cymber , Decius Brutus loues thee not : Thou hast wrong ' d Caius Ligarius .
There is but one minde in all these men , and it is bent against Caesar : If thou beest not Immortall , looke about you : Security giues way to Conspiracie .
The mighty Gods defend thee .
Thy Louer , Artemidorus .
Heere will I stand , till Caesar passe along , And as a Sutor will I giue him this : My heart laments , that Vertue cannot liue Out of the teeth of Emulation .
If thou reade this , O Caesar , thou mayest liue ; If not , the Fates with Traitors do contriue .
Enter .
Enter Portia and Lucius .
Por .
I prythee Boy , run to the Senate - house , Stay not to answer me , but get thee gone .
Why doest thou stay ?
Luc .
To know my errand Madam
Por .
I would haue had thee there and heere agen Ere I can tell thee what thou should ' st do there : O Constancie , be strong vpon my side , Set a huge Mountaine ' tweene my Heart and Tongue : I haue a mans minde , but a womans might : How hard it is for women to keepe counsell .
Art thou heere yet ?
Luc .
Madam , what should I do ?
Run to the Capitoll , and nothing else ?
And so returne to you , and nothing else ?
Por .
Yes , bring me word Boy , if thy Lord look well , For he went sickly forth : and take good note What Caesar doth , what Sutors presse to him .
Hearke Boy , what noyse is that ?
Luc .
I heare none Madam
Por .
Prythee listen well : I heard a bussling Rumor like a Fray , And the winde brings it from the Capitoll
Luc .
Sooth Madam , I heare nothing .
Enter the Soothsayer .
Por .
Come hither Fellow , which way hast thou bin ?
Sooth .
At mine owne house , good Lady
Por .
What is ' t a clocke ?
Sooth .
About the ninth houre Lady
Por .
Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitoll ?
Sooth .
Madam not yet , I go to take my stand , To see him passe on to the Capitoll
Por .
Thou hast some suite to Caesar , hast thou not ?
Sooth .
That I haue Lady , if it will please Caesar To be so good to Caesar , as to heare me : I shall beseech him to befriend himselfe
Por .
Why know ' st thou any harme ' s intended towards him ?
Sooth .
None that I know will be , Much that I feare may chance : Good morrow to you : heere the street is narrow : The throng that followes Caesar at the heeles , Of Senators , of Praetors , common Sutors , Will crowd a feeble man ( almost ) to death : Ile get me to a place more voyd , and there Speake to great Caesar as he comes along .
Exit
Por .
I must go in : Aye me !
How weake a thing The heart of woman is ?
O Brutus , The Heauens speede thee in thine enterprize .
Sure the Boy heard me : Brutus hath a suite That Caesar will not grant .
O , I grow faint : Run Lucius , and commend me to my Lord , Say I am merry ; Come to me againe , And bring me word what he doth say to thee .
Exeunt .
Actus Tertius .
Flourish
Enter Caesar , Brutus , Cassius , Caska , Decius , Metellus , Trebonius , Cynna , Antony , Lepidus , Artimedorus , Publius , and the Soothsayer .
Caes The Ides of March are come
Sooth .
I Caesar , but not gone
Art .
Haile Caesar : Read this Scedule
Deci .
Trebonius doth desire you to ore - read ( At your best leysure ) this his humble suite
Art .
O Caesar , reade mine first : for mine ' s a suite That touches Caesar neerer .
Read it great Caesar
Caes What touches vs our selfe , shall be last seru ' d
Art .
Delay not Caesar , read it instantly
Caes What , is the fellow mad ?
Pub .
Sirra , giue place
Cassi .
What , vrge you your Petitions in the street ?
Come to the Capitoll
Popil .
I wish your enterprize to day may thriue
Cassi .
What enterprize Popillius ?
Popil .
Fare you well
Bru .
What said Popillius Lena ?
Cassi .
He wisht to day our enterprize might thriue : I feare our purpose is discouered
Bru .
Looke how he makes to Caesar : marke him
Cassi .
Caska be sodaine , for we feare preuention .
Brutus what shall be done ?
If this be knowne , Cassius or Caesar neuer shall turne backe , For I will slay my selfe
Bru .
Cassius be constant : Popillius Lena speakes not of our purposes , For looke he smiles , and Caesar doth not change
Cassi .
Trebonius knowes his time : for look you Brutus He drawes Mark Antony out of the way
Deci .
Where is Metellus Cimber , let him go , And presently preferre his suite to Caesar
Bru .
He is addrest : presse neere , and second him
Cin .
Caska , you are the first that reares your hand
Caes Are we all ready ?
What is now amisse , That Caesar and his Senate must redresse ?
Metel .
Most high , most mighty , and most puisant Caesar Metellus Cymber throwes before thy Seate An humble heart
Caes I must preuent thee Cymber : These couchings , and these lowly courtesies Might fire the blood of ordinary men , And turne pre - Ordinance , and first Decree Into the lane of Children .
Be not fond , To thinke that Caesar beares such Rebell blood That will be thaw ' d from the true quality With that which melteth Fooles , I meane sweet words , Low - crooked - curtsies , and base Spaniell fawning : Thy Brother by decree is banished : If thou doest bend , and pray , and fawne for him , I spurne thee like a Curre out of my way : Know , Caesar doth not wrong , nor without cause Will he be satisfied
Metel .
Is there no voyce more worthy then my owne , To sound more sweetly in great Caesars eare , For the repealing of my banish ' d Brother ?
Bru .
I kisse thy hand , but not in flattery Caesar : Desiring thee , that Publius Cymber may Haue an immediate freedome of repeale
Caes What Brutus ?
Cassi .
Pardon Caesar : Caesar pardon : As lowe as to thy foote doth Cassius fall , To begge infranchisement for Publius Cymber
Caes I could be well mou ' d , if I were as you , If I could pray to mooue , Prayers would mooue me : But I am constant as the Northerne Starre , Of whose true fixt , and resting quality , There is no fellow in the Firmament .
The Skies are painted with vnnumbred sparkes , They are all Fire , and euery one doth shine : But , there ' s but one in all doth hold his place .
So , in the World ; ' Tis furnish ' d well with Men , And Men are Flesh and Blood , and apprehensiue ; Yet in the number , I do know but One That vnassayleable holds on his Ranke , Vnshak ' d of Motion : and that I am he , Let me a little shew it , euen in this : That I was constant Cymber should be banish ' d , And constant do remaine to keepe him so
Cinna .
O Caesar
Caes Hence : Wilt thou lift vp Olympus ?
Decius .
Great Caesar
Caes Doth not Brutus bootlesse kneele ?
Cask .
Speake hands for me .
They stab Caesar .
Caes Et Tu Brute ?
- Then fall Caesar .
Dyes
Cin .
Liberty , Freedome ; Tyranny is dead , Run hence , proclaime , cry it about the Streets
Cassi .
Some to the common Pulpits , and cry out Liberty , Freedome , and Enfranchisement
Bru .
People and Senators , be not affrighted : Fly not , stand still : Ambitions debt is paid
Cask .
Go to the Pulpit Brutus
Dec . And Cassius too
Bru .
Where ' s Publius ?
Cin .
Heere , quite confounded with this mutiny
Met .
Stand fast together , least some Friend of Caesars Should chance - Bru .
Talke not of standing .
Publius good cheere , There is no harme intended to your person , Nor to no Roman else : so tell them Publius
Cassi .
And leaue vs Publius , least that the people Rushing on vs , should do your Age some mischiefe
Bru .
Do so , and let no man abide this deede , But we the Doers .
Enter Trebonius
Cassi .
Where is Antony ?
Treb .
Fled to his House amaz ' d : Men , Wiues , and Children , stare , cry out , and run , As it were Doomesday
Bru .
Fates , we will know your pleasures : That we shall dye we know , ' tis but the time And drawing dayes out , that men stand vpon
Cask .
Why he that cuts off twenty yeares of life , Cuts off so many yeares of fearing death
Bru .
Grant that , and then is Death a Benefit : So are we Caesars Friends , that haue abridg ' d His time of fearing death .
Stoope Romans , stoope , And let vs bathe our hands in Caesars blood Vp to the Elbowes , and besmeare our Swords : Then walke we forth , euen to the Market place , And wauing our red Weapons o ' re our heads , Let ' s all cry Peace , Freedome , and Liberty
Cassi .
Stoop then , and wash . How many Ages hence Shall this our lofty Scene be acted ouer , In State vnborne , and Accents yet vnknowne ?
Bru .
How many times shall Caesar bleed in sport , That now on Pompeyes Basis lye along , No worthier then the dust ?
Cassi .
So oft as that shall be , So often shall the knot of vs be call ' d , The Men that gaue their Country liberty
Dec . What , shall we forth ?
Cassi .
I , euery man away .
Brutus shall leade , and we will grace his heeles With the most boldest , and best hearts of Rome .
Enter a Seruant .
Bru .
Soft , who comes heere ?
A friend of Antonies
Ser .
Thus Brutus did my Master bid me kneele ; Thus did Mark Antony bid me fall downe , And being prostrate , thus he bad me say : Brutus is Noble , Wise , Valiant , and Honest ; Caesar was Mighty , Bold , Royall , and Louing : Say , I loue Brutus , and I honour him ; Say , I fear ' d Caesar , honour ' d him , and lou ' d him .
If Brutus will vouchsafe , that Antony May safely come to him , and be resolu ' d How Caesar hath deseru ' d to lye in death , Mark Antony , shall not loue Caesar dead So well as Brutus liuing ; but will follow The Fortunes and Affayres of Noble Brutus , Thorough the hazards of this vntrod State , With all true Faith .
So sayes my Master Antony
Bru .
Thy Master is a Wise and Valiant Romane , I neuer thought him worse : Tell him , so please him come vnto this place He shall be satisfied : and by my Honor Depart vntouch ' d
Ser .
Ile fetch him presently .
Exit Seruant .
Bru .
I know that we shall haue him well to Friend
Cassi .
I wish we may : But yet haue I a minde That feares him much : and my misgiuing still Falles shrewdly to the purpose .
Enter Antony .
Bru .
But heere comes Antony : Welcome Mark Antony
Ant .
O mighty Caesar !
Dost thou lye so lowe ?
Are all thy Conquests , Glories , Triumphes , Spoiles , Shrunke to this little Measure ?
Fare thee well .
I know not Gentlemen what you intend , Who else must be let blood , who else is ranke : If I my selfe , there is no houre so fit As Caesars deaths houre ; nor no Instrument Of halfe that worth , as those your Swords ; made rich With the most Noble blood of all this World .
I do beseech yee , if you beare me hard , Now , whil ' st your purpled hands do reeke and smoake , Fulfill your pleasure .
Liue a thousand yeeres , I shall not finde my selfe so apt to dye .
No place will please me so , no meane of death , As heere by Caesar , and by you cut off , The Choice and Master Spirits of this Age
Bru .
O Antony !
Begge not your death of vs : Though now we must appeare bloody and cruell , As by our hands , and this our present Acte You see we do : Yet see you but our hands , And this , the bleeding businesse they haue done : Our hearts you see not , they are pittifull : And pitty to the generall wrong of Rome , As fire driues out fire , so pitty , pitty Hath done this deed on Caesar .
For your part , To you , our Swords haue leaden points Marke Antony : Our Armes in strength of malice , and our Hearts Of Brothers temper , do receiue you in , With all kinde loue , good thoughts , and reuerence
Cassi .
Your voyce shall be as strong as any mans , In the disposing of new Dignities
Bru .
Onely be patient , till we haue appeas ' d The Multitude , beside themselues with feare , And then , we will deliuer you the cause , Why I , that did loue Caesar when I strooke him , Haue thus proceeded
Ant .
I doubt not of your Wisedome : Let each man render me his bloody hand .
First Marcus Brutus will I shake with you ; Next Caius Cassius do I take your hand ; Now Decius Brutus yours ; now yours Metellus ; Yours Cinna ; and my valiant Caska , yours ; Though last , not least in loue , yours good Trebonius .
Gentlemen all : Alas , what shall I say , My credit now stands on such slippery ground , That one of two bad wayes you must conceit me , Either a Coward , or a Flatterer .
That I did loue thee Caesar , O ' tis true : If then thy Spirit looke vpon vs now , Shall it not greeue thee deerer then thy death , To see thy Antony making his peace , Shaking the bloody fingers of thy Foes ?
Most Noble , in the presence of thy Coarse , Had I as many eyes , as thou hast wounds , Weeping as fast as they streame forth thy blood , It would become me better , then to close In tearmes of Friendship with thine enemies .
Pardon me Iulius , heere was ' t thou bay ' d braue Hart , Heere did ' st thou fall , and heere thy Hunters stand Sign ' d in thy Spoyle , and Crimson ' d in thy Lethee .
O World !
thou wast the Forrest to this Hart , And this indeed , O World , the Hart of thee .
How like a Deere , stroken by many Princes , Dost thou heere lye ?
Cassi .
Mark Antony
Ant .
Pardon me Caius Cassius : The Enemies of Caesar , shall say this : Then , in a Friend , it is cold Modestie
Cassi .
I blame you not for praising Caesar so .
But what compact meane you to haue with vs ?
Will you be prick ' d in number of our Friends , Or shall we on , and not depend on you ?
Ant .
Therefore I tooke your hands , but was indeed Sway ' d from the point , by looking downe on Caesar .
Friends am I with you all , and loue you all , Vpon this hope , that you shall giue me Reasons , Why , and wherein , Caesar was dangerous
Bru .
Or else were this a sauage Spectacle : Our Reasons are so full of good regard , That were you Antony , the Sonne of Caesar , You should be satisfied
Ant .
That ' s all I seeke , And am moreouer sutor , that I may Produce his body to the Market - place , And in the Pulpit as becomes a Friend , Speake in the Order of his Funerall
Bru .
You shall Marke Antony
Cassi .
Brutus , a word with you : You know not what you do ; Do not consent That Antony speake in his Funerall : Know you how much the people may be mou ' d By that which he will vtter
Bru .
By your pardon : I will my selfe into the Pulpit first , And shew the reason of our Caesars death .
What Antony shall speake , I will protest He speakes by leaue , and by permission : And that we are contented Caesar shall Haue all true Rites , and lawfull Ceremonies , It shall aduantage more , then do vs wrong
Cassi .
I know not what may fall , I like it not
Bru .
Mark Antony , heere take you Caesars body : You shall not in your Funerall speech blame vs , But speake all good you can deuise of Caesar , And say you doo ' t by our permission : Else shall you not haue any hand at all About his Funerall .
And you shall speake In the same Pulpit whereto I am going , After my speech is ended
Ant .
Be it so : I do desire no more
Bru .
Prepare the body then , and follow vs .
Exeunt .
Manet Antony .
O pardon me , thou bleeding peece of Earth : That I am meeke and gentle with these Butchers .
Thou art the Ruines of the Noblest man That euer liued in the Tide of Times .
Woe to the hand that shed this costly Blood .
Ouer thy wounds , now do I Prophesie , ( Which like dumbe mouthes do ope their Ruby lips , To begge the voyce and vtterance of my Tongue ) A Curse shall light vpon the limbes of men ; Domesticke Fury , and fierce Ciuill strife , Shall cumber all the parts of Italy : Blood and destruction shall be so in vse , And dreadfull Obiects so familiar , That Mothers shall but smile , when they behold Their Infants quartered with the hands of Warre : All pitty choak ' d with custome of fell deeds , And Caesars Spirit ranging for Reuenge , With Ate by his side , come hot from Hell , Shall in these Confines , with a Monarkes voyce , Cry hauocke , and let slip the Dogges of Warre , That this foule deede , shall smell aboue the earth With Carrion men , groaning for Buriall .
Enter Octauio ' s Seruant .
You serue Octauius Caesar , do you not ?
Ser .
I do Marke Antony
Ant .
Caesar did write for him to come to Rome
Ser .
He did receiue his Letters , and is comming , And bid me say to you by word of mouth - O Caesar !
Ant .
Thy heart is bigge : get thee a - part and weepe : Passion I see is catching from mine eyes , Seeing those Beads of sorrow stand in thine , Began to water .
Is thy Master comming ?
Ser .
He lies to night within seuen Leagues of Rome
Ant .
Post backe with speede , And tell him what hath chanc ' d : Heere is a mourning Rome , a dangerous Rome , No Rome of safety for Octauius yet , Hie hence , and tell him so .
Yet stay a - while , Thou shalt not backe , till I haue borne this course Into the Market place : There shall I try In my Oration , how the People take The cruell issue of these bloody men , According to the which , thou shalt discourse To yong Octauius , of the state of things .
Lend me your hand .
Exeunt .
Enter Brutus and goes into the Pulpit , and Cassius , with the Plebeians .
Ple .
We will be satisfied : let vs be satisfied
Bru .
Then follow me , and giue me Audience friends .
Cassius go you into the other streete , And part the Numbers : Those that will heare me speake , let ' em stay heere ; Those that will follow Cassius , go with him , And publike Reasons shall be rendred Of Caesars death
1 . Ple .
I will heare Brutus speake
2 .
I will heare Cassius , and compare their Reasons , When seuerally we heare them rendred
3 .
The Noble Brutus is ascended : Silence
Bru .
Be patient till the last .
Romans , Countrey - men , and Louers , heare mee for my cause , and be silent , that you may heare .
Beleeue me for mine Honor , and haue respect to mine Honor , that you may beleeue .
Censure me in your Wisedom , and awake your Senses , that you may the better Iudge .
If there bee any in this Assembly , any deere Friend of Caesars , to him I say , that Brutus loue to Caesar , was no lesse then his .
If then , that Friend demand , why Brutus rose against Caesar , this is my answer : Not that I lou ' d Caesar lesse , but that I lou ' d Rome more .
Had you rather Caesar were liuing , and dye all Slaues ; then that Caesar were dead , to liue all Free - men ?
As Caesar lou ' d mee , I weepe for him ; as he was Fortunate , I reioyce at it ; as he was Valiant , I honour him : But , as he was Ambitious , I slew him .
There is Teares , for his Loue : Ioy , for his Fortune : Honor , for his Valour : and Death , for his Ambition .
Who is heere so base , that would be a Bondman ?
If any , speak , for him haue I offended .
Who is heere so rude , that would not be a Roman ?
If any , speak , for him haue I offended .
Who is heere so vile , that will not loue his Countrey ?
If any , speake , for him haue I offended .
I pause for a Reply
All .
None Brutus , none
Brutus .
Then none haue I offended .
I haue done no more to Caesar , then you shall do to Brutus .
The Question of his death , is inroll ' d in the Capitoll : his Glory not extenuated , wherein he was worthy ; nor his offences enforc ' d , for which he suffered death .
Enter Mark Antony , with Caesars body .
Heere comes his Body , mourn ' d by Marke Antony , who though he had no hand in his death , shall receiue the benefit of his dying , a place in the Co [ m ] monwealth , as which of you shall not .
With this I depart , that as I slewe my best Louer for the good of Rome , I haue the same Dagger for my selfe , when it shall please my Country to need my death
All .
Liue Brutus , liue , liue
1 .
Bring him with Triumph home vnto his house
2 .
Giue him a Statue with his Ancestors
3 .
Let him be Caesar
4 .
Caesars better parts , Shall be Crown ' d in Brutus
1 .
Wee ' l bring him to his House , With Showts and Clamors
Bru .
My Country - men
2 .
Peace , silence , Brutus speakes
1 .
Peace ho
Bru .
Good Countrymen , let me depart alone , And ( for my sake ) stay heere with Antony : Do grace to Caesars Corpes , and grace his Speech Tending to Caesars Glories , which Marke Antony ( By our permission ) is allow ' d to make .
I do intreat you , not a man depart , Saue I alone , till Antony haue spoke .
Exit
1 Stay ho , and let vs heare Mark Antony
3 Let him go vp into the publike Chaire , Wee ' l heare him : Noble Antony go vp
Ant .
For Brutus sake , I am beholding to you
4 What does he say of Brutus ?
3 He sayes , for Brutus sake He findes himselfe beholding to vs all
4 ' Twere best he speake no harme of Brutus heere ?
1 This Caesar was a Tyrant
3 Nay that ' s certaine : We are blest that Rome is rid of him
2 Peace , let vs heare what Antony can say
Ant .
You gentle Romans
All .
Peace hoe , let vs heare him
An .
Friends , Romans , Countrymen , lend me your ears : I come to bury Caesar , not to praise him : The euill that men do , liues after them , The good is oft enterred with their bones , So let it be with Caesar .
The Noble Brutus , Hath told you Caesar was Ambitious : If it were so , it was a greeuous Fault , And greeuously hath Caesar answer ' d it .
Heere , vnder leaue of Brutus , and the rest ( For Brutus is an Honourable man , So are they all ; all Honourable men ) Come I to speake in Caesars Funerall .
He was my Friend , faithfull , and iust to me ; But Brutus sayes , he was Ambitious , And Brutus is an Honourable man .
He hath brought many Captiues home to Rome , Whose Ransomes , did the generall Coffers fill : Did this in Caesar seeme Ambitious ?
When that the poore haue cry ' de , Caesar hath wept : Ambition should be made of sterner stuffe , Yet Brutus sayes , he was Ambitious : And Brutus is an Honourable man .
You all did see , that on the Lupercall , I thrice presented him a Kingly Crowne , Which he did thrice refuse .
Was this Ambition ?
Yet Brutus sayes , he was Ambitious : And sure he is an Honourable man .
I speake not to disprooue what Brutus spoke , But heere I am , to speake what I do know ; You all did loue him once , not without cause , What cause with - holds you then , to mourne for him ?
O Iudgement !
thou are fled to brutish Beasts , And Men haue lost their Reason .
Beare with me , My heart is in the Coffin there with Caesar , And I must pawse , till it come backe to me
1 Me thinkes there is much reason in his sayings
2 If thou consider rightly of the matter , Caesar ha ' s had great wrong
3 Ha ' s hee Masters ?
I feare there will a worse come in his place
4 .
Mark ' d ye his words ?
he would not take y Crown , Therefore ' tis certaine , he was not Ambitious
1 .
If it be found so , some will deere abide it
2 .
Poore soule , his eyes are red as fire with weeping
3 .
There ' s not a Nobler man in Rome then Antony
4 .
Now marke him , he begins againe to speake
Ant .
But yesterday , the word of Caesar might Haue stood against the World : Now lies he there , And none so poore to do him reuerence .
O Maisters !
If I were dispos ' d to stirre Your hearts and mindes to Mutiny and Rage , I should do Brutus wrong , and Cassius wrong : Who ( you all know ) are Honourable men .
I will not do them wrong : I rather choose To wrong the dead , to wrong my selfe and you , Then I will wrong such Honourable men .
But heere ' s a Parchment , with the Seale of Caesar , I found it in his Closset , ' tis his Will : Let but the Commons heare this Testament : ( Which pardon me ) I do not meane to reade , And they would go and kisse dead Caesars wounds , And dip their Napkins in his Sacred Blood ; Yea , begge a haire of him for Memory , And dying , mention it within their Willes , Bequeathing it as a rich Legacie Vnto their issue
4 Wee ' l heare the Will , reade it Marke Antony
All .
The Will , the Will ; we will heare Caesars Will
Ant .
Haue patience gentle Friends , I must not read it .
It is not meete you know how Caesar lou ' d you : You are not Wood , you are not Stones , but men : And being men , hearing the Will of Caesar , It will inflame you , it will make you mad : ' Tis good you know not that you are his Heires , For if you should , O what would come of it ?
4 Read the Will , wee ' l heare it Antony : You shall reade vs the Will , Caesars Will
Ant .
Will you be Patient ?
Will you stay a - while ?
I haue o ' re - shot my selfe to tell you of it , I feare I wrong the Honourable men , Whose Daggers haue stabb ' d Caesar : I do feare it
4 They were Traitors : Honourable men ?
All .
The Will , the Testament
2 They were Villaines , Murderers : the Will , read the Will
Ant .
You will compell me then to read the Will : Then make a Ring about the Corpes of Caesar , And let me shew you him that made the Will : Shall I descend ?
And will you giue me leaue ?
All .
Come downe
2 Descend
3 You shall haue leaue
4 A Ring , stand round
1 Stand from the Hearse , stand from the Body
2 Roome for Antony , most Noble Antony
Ant .
Nay presse not so vpon me , stand farre off
All .
Stand backe : roome , beare backe
Ant .
If you haue teares , prepare to shed them now .
You all do know this Mantle , I remember The first time euer Caesar put it on , ' Twas on a Summers Euening in his Tent , That day he ouercame the Neruij .
Looke , in this place ran Cassius Dagger through : See what a rent the enuious Caska made : Through this , the wel - beloued Brutus stabb ' d , And as he pluck ' d his cursed Steele away : Marke how the blood of Caesar followed it , As rushing out of doores , to be resolu ' d If Brutus so vnkindely knock ' d , or no : For Brutus , as you know , was Caesars Angel .
Iudge , O you Gods , how deerely Caesar lou ' d him : This was the most vnkindest cut of all .
For when the Noble Caesar saw him stab , Ingratitude , more strong then Traitors armes , Quite vanquish ' d him : then burst his Mighty heart , And in his Mantle , muffling vp his face , Euen at the Base of Pompeyes Statue ( Which all the while ran blood ) great Caesar fell .
O what a fall was there , my Countrymen ?
Then I , and you , and all of vs fell downe , Whil ' st bloody Treason flourish ' d ouer vs . O now you weepe , and I perceiue you feele The dint of pitty : These are gracious droppes .
Kinde Soules , what weepe you , when you but behold Our Caesars Vesture wounded ?
Looke you heere , Heere is Himselfe , marr ' d as you see with Traitors
1 .
O pitteous spectacle !
2 .
O Noble Caesar !
3 .
O wofull day !
4 .
O Traitors , Villaines !
1 .
O most bloody sight !
2 .
We will be reueng ' d : Reuenge About , seeke , burne , fire , kill , slay , Let not a Traitor liue
Ant .
Stay Country - men
1 .
Peace there , heare the Noble Antony
2 .
Wee ' l heare him , wee ' l follow him , wee ' l dy with him
Ant .
Good Friends , sweet Friends , let me not stirre you vp To such a sodaine Flood of Mutiny : They that haue done this Deede , are honourable .
What priuate greefes they haue , alas I know not , That made them do it : They are Wise , and Honourable , And will no doubt with Reasons answer you .
I come not ( Friends ) to steale away your hearts , I am no Orator , as Brutus is : But ( as you know me all ) a plaine blunt man That loue my Friend , and that they know full well , That gaue me publike leaue to speake of him : For I haue neyther writ nor words , nor worth , Action , nor Vtterance , nor the power of Speech , To stirre mens Blood .
I onely speake right on : I tell you that , which you your selues do know , Shew you sweet Caesars wounds , poor poor dum mouths And bid them speake for me : But were I Brutus , And Brutus Antony , there were an Antony Would ruffle vp your Spirits , and put a Tongue In euery Wound of Caesar , that should moue The stones of Rome , to rise and Mutiny
All .
Wee ' l Mutiny
1 Wee ' l burne the house of Brutus
3 Away then , come , seeke the Conspirators
Ant .
Yet heare me Countrymen , yet heare me speake All .
Peace hoe , heare Antony , most Noble Antony
Ant .
Why Friends , you go to do you know not what : Wherein hath Caesar thus deseru ' d your loues ?
Alas you know not , I must tell you then : You haue forgot the Will I told you of
All .
Most true , the Will , let ' s stay and heare the Wil
Ant .
Heere is the Will , and vnder Caesars Seale : To euery Roman Citizen he giues , To euery seuerall man , seuenty fiue Drachmaes
2 Ple .
Most Noble Caesar , wee ' l reuenge his death
3 Ple .
O Royall Caesar
Ant .
Heare me with patience
All .
Peace hoe Ant .
Moreouer , he hath left you all his Walkes , His priuate Arbors , and new - planted Orchards , On this side Tyber , he hath left them you , And to your heyres for euer : common pleasures To walke abroad , and recreate your selues .
Heere was a Caesar : when comes such another ?
1 . Ple .
Neuer , neuer : come , away , away : Wee ' l burne his body in the holy place , And with the Brands fire the Traitors houses .
Take vp the body
2 . Ple .
Go fetch fire
3 . Ple .
Plucke downe Benches
4 . Ple .
Plucke downe Formes , Windowes , any thing .
Exit Plebeians .
Ant .
Now let it worke : Mischeefe thou art a - foot , Take thou what course thou wilt .
How now Fellow ?
Enter Seruant .
Ser .
Sir , Octauius is already come to Rome
Ant .
Where is hee ?
Ser .
He and Lepidus are at Caesars house
Ant .
And thither will I straight , to visit him : He comes vpon a wish .
Fortune is merry , And in this mood will giue vs any thing
Ser .
I heard him say , Brutus and Cassius Are rid like Madmen through the Gates of Rome
Ant .
Belike they had some notice of the people How I had moued them .
Bring me to Octauius .
Exeunt .
Enter Cinna the Poet , and after him the Plebeians .
Cinna .
I dreamt to night , that I did feast with Caesar , And things vnluckily charge my Fantasie : I haue no will to wander foorth of doores , Yet something leads me foorth
1 .
What is your name ?
2 .
Whether are you going ?
3 .
Where do you dwell ?
4 .
Are you a married man , or a Batchellor ?
2 .
Answer euery man directly
1 .
I , and breefely
4 .
I , and wisely
3 .
I , and truly , you were best
Cin .
What is my name ?
Whether am I going ?
Where do I dwell ?
Am I a married man , or a Batchellour ?
Then to answer euery man , directly and breefely , wisely and truly : wisely I say , I am a Batchellor
2 That ' s as much as to say , they are fooles that marrie : you ' l beare me a bang for that I feare : proceede directly
Cinna .
Directly I am going to Caesars Funerall
1 .
As a Friend , or an Enemy ?
Cinna .
As a friend
2 .
That matter is answered directly
4 .
For your dwelling : breefely
Cinna .
Breefely , I dwell by the Capitoll
3 .
Your name sir , truly
Cinna .
Truly , my name is Cinna
1 .
Teare him to peeces , hee ' s a Conspirator
Cinna .
I am Cinna the Poet , I am Cinna the Poet
4 .
Teare him for his bad verses , teare him for his bad Verses
Cin .
I am not Cinna the Conspirator
4 .
It is no matter , his name ' s Cinna , plucke but his name out of his heart , and turne him going
3 .
Teare him , tear him ; Come Brands hoe , Firebrands : to Brutus , to Cassius , burne all .
Some to Decius House , and some to Caska ' s ; some to Ligarius : Away , go .
Exeunt .
all the Plebeians .
Actus Quartus .
Enter Antony , Octauius , and Lepidus .
Ant .
These many then shall die , their names are prickt Octa .
Your Brother too must dye : consent you Lepidus ?
Lep .
I do consent
Octa .
Pricke him downe Antony
Lep .
Vpon condition Publius shall not liue , Who is your Sisters sonne , Marke Antony
Ant .
He shall not liue ; looke , with a spot I dam him .
But Lepidus , go you to Caesars house : Fetch the Will hither , and we shall determine How to cut off some charge in Legacies
Lep .
What ?
shall I finde you heere ?
Octa .
Or heere , or at the Capitoll .
Exit Lepidus
Ant .
This is a slight vnmeritable man , Meet to be sent on Errands : is it fit The three - fold World diuided , he should stand One of the three to share it ?
Octa .
So you thought him , And tooke his voyce who should be prickt to dye In our blacke Sentence and Proscription
Ant .
Octauius , I haue seene more dayes then you , And though we lay these Honours on this man , To ease our selues of diuers sland ' rous loads , He shall but beare them , as the Asse beares Gold , To groane and swet vnder the Businesse , Either led or driuen , as we point the way : And hauing brought our Treasure , where we will , Then take we downe his Load , and turne him off ( Like to the empty Asse ) to shake his eares , And graze in Commons
Octa .
You may do your will : But hee ' s a tried , and valiant Souldier
Ant .
So is my Horse Octauius , and for that I do appoint him store of Prouender .
It is a Creature that I teach to fight , To winde , to stop , to run directly on : His corporall Motion , gouern ' d by my Spirit , And in some taste , is Lepidus but so : He must be taught , and train ' d , and bid go forth : A barren spirited Fellow ; one that feeds On Obiects , Arts , and Imitations .
Which out of vse , and stal ' de by other men Begin his fashion .
Do not talke of him , But as a property : and now Octauius , Listen great things .
Brutus and Cassius Are leuying Powers ; We must straight make head : Therefore let our Alliance be combin ' d , Our best Friends made , our meanes stretcht , And let vs presently go sit in Councell , How couert matters may be best disclos ' d , And open Perils surest answered
Octa .
Let vs do so : for we are at the stake , And bayed about with many Enemies , And some that smile haue in their hearts I feare Millions of Mischeefes .
Exeunt .
Drum .
Enter Brutus , Lucillius , and the Army .
Titinius and Pindarus meete them .
Bru .
Stand ho
Lucil .
Giue the word ho , and Stand
Bru .
What now Lucillius , is Cassius neere ?
Lucil .
He is at hand , and Pindarus is come To do you salutation from his Master
Bru .
He greets me well .
Your Master Pindarus In his owne change , or by ill Officers , Hath giuen me some worthy cause to wish Things done , vndone : But if he be at hand I shall be satisfied
Pin .
I do not doubt But that my Noble Master will appeare Such as he is , full of regard , and Honour
Bru .
He is not doubted .
A word Lucillius How he receiu ' d you : let me be resolu ' d
Lucil .
With courtesie , and with respect enough , But not with such familiar instances , Nor with such free and friendly Conference As he hath vs ' d of old
Bru .
Thou hast describ ' d A hot Friend , cooling : Euer note Lucillius , When Loue begins to sicken and decay It vseth an enforced Ceremony .
There are no trickes , in plaine and simple Faith : But hollow men , like Horses hot at hand , Make gallant shew , and promise of their Mettle :
Low March within .
But when they should endure the bloody Spurre , They fall their Crests , and like deceitfull Iades Sinke in the Triall .
Comes his Army on ?
Lucil .
They meane this night in Sardis to be quarter ' d : The greater part , the Horse in generall Are come with Cassius .
Enter Cassius and his Powers .
Bru .
Hearke , he is arriu ' d : March gently on to meete him
Cassi .
Stand ho
Bru .
Stand ho , speake the word along .
Stand .
Stand .
Stand
Cassi .
Most Noble Brother , you haue done me wrong
Bru .
Iudge me you Gods ; wrong I mine Enemies ?
And if not so , how should I wrong a Brother
Cassi .
Brutus , this sober forme of yours , hides wrongs , And when you do them - Brut .
Cassius , be content , Speake your greefes softly , I do know you well .
Before the eyes of both our Armies heere ( Which should perceiue nothing but Loue from vs ) Let vs not wrangle .
Bid them moue away : Then in my Tent Cassius enlarge your Greefes , And I will giue you Audience
Cassi .
Pindarus , Bid our Commanders leade their Charges off A little from this ground
Bru .
Lucillius , do you the like , and let no man Come to our Tent , till we haue done our Conference .
Let Lucius and Titinius guard our doore .
Exeunt .
Manet Brutus and Cassius .
Cassi .
That you haue wrong ' d me , doth appear in this : You haue condemn ' d , and noted Lucius Pella For taking Bribes heere of the Sardians ; Wherein my Letters , praying on his side , Because I knew the man was slighted off
Bru .
You wrong ' d your selfe to write in such a case
Cassi .
In such a time as this , it is not meet That euery nice offence should beare his Comment
Bru .
Let me tell you Cassius , you your selfe Are much condemn ' d to haue an itching Palme , To sell , and Mart your Offices for Gold To Vndeseruers
Cassi .
I , an itching Palme ?
You know that you are Brutus that speakes this , Or by the Gods , this speech were else your last
Bru .
The name of Cassius Honors this corruption , And Chasticement doth therefore hide his head
Cassi .
Chasticement ?
Bru .
Remember March , the Ides of March reme [ m ] ber : Did not great Iulius bleede for Iustice sake ?
What Villaine touch ' d his body , that did stab , And not for Iustice ?
What ?
Shall one of Vs , That strucke the Formost man of all this World , But for supporting Robbers : shall we now , Contaminate our fingers , with base Bribes ?
And sell the mighty space of our large Honors For so much trash , as may be grasped thus ?
I had rather be a Dogge , and bay the Moone , Then such a Roman
Cassi .
Brutus , baite not me , Ile not indure it : you forget your selfe To hedge me in .
I am a Souldier , I , Older in practice , Abler then your selfe To make Conditions
Bru .
Go too : you are not Cassius
Cassi .
I am
Bru .
I say , you are not
Cassi .
Vrge me no more , I shall forget my selfe : Haue minde vpon your health : Tempt me no farther
Bru .
Away slight man
Cassi .
Is ' t possible ?
Bru .
Heare me , for I will speake .
Must I giue way , and roome to your rash Choller ?
Shall I be frighted , when a Madman stares ?
Cassi .
O ye Gods , ye Gods , Must I endure all this ?
Bru .
All this ?
I more : Fret till your proud hart break .
Go shew your Slaues how Chollericke you are , And make your Bondmen tremble .
Must I bouge ?
Must I obserue you ?
Must I stand and crouch Vnder your Testie Humour ?
By the Gods , You shall digest the Venom of your Spleene Though it do Split you .
For , from this day forth , Ile vse you for my Mirth , yea for my Laughter When you are Waspish
Cassi .
Is it come to this ?
Bru .
You say , you are a better Souldier : Let it appeare so ; make your vaunting true , And it shall please me well .
For mine owne part , I shall be glad to learne of Noble men
Cass .
You wrong me euery way : You wrong me Brutus : I saide , an Elder Souldier , not a Better .
Did I say Better ?
Bru .
If you did , I care not
Cass .
When Caesar liu ' d , he durst not thus haue mou ' d me
Brut .
Peace , peace , you durst not so haue tempted him
Cassi .
I durst not
Bru .
No
Cassi .
What ?
durst not tempt him ?
Bru .
For your life you durst not
Cassi .
Do not presume too much vpon my Loue , I may do that I shall be sorry for
Bru .
You haue done that you should be sorry for .
There is no terror Cassius in your threats : For I am Arm ' d so strong in Honesty , That they passe by me , as the idle winde , Which I respect not .
I did send to you For certaine summes of Gold , which you deny ' d me , For I can raise no money by vile meanes : By Heauen , I had rather Coine my Heart , And drop my blood for Drachmaes , then to wring From the hard hands of Peazants , their vile trash By any indirection .
I did send To you for Gold to pay my Legions , Which you deny ' d me : was that done like Cassius ?
Should I haue answer ' d Caius Cassius so ?
When Marcus Brutus growes so Couetous , To locke such Rascall Counters from his Friends , Be ready Gods with all your Thunder - bolts , Dash him to peeces
Cassi .
I deny ' d you not
Bru .
You did
Cassi .
I did not .
He was but a Foole That brought my answer back .
Brutus hath riu ' d my hart : A Friend should beare his Friends infirmities ; But Brutus makes mine greater then they are
Bru .
I do not , till you practice them on me
Cassi .
You loue me not
Bru .
I do not like your faults
Cassi .
A friendly eye could neuer see such faults
Bru .
A Flatterers would not , though they do appeare As huge as high Olympus
Cassi .
Come Antony , and yong Octauius come , Reuenge your selues alone on Cassius , For Cassius is a - weary of the World : Hated by one he loues , brau ' d by his Brother , Check ' d like a bondman , all his faults obseru ' d , Set in a Note - booke , learn ' d , and con ' d by roate To cast into my Teeth .
O I could weepe My Spirit from mine eyes .
There is my Dagger , And heere my naked Breast : Within , a Heart Deerer then Pluto ' s Mine , Richer then Gold : If that thou bee ' st a Roman , take it foorth .
I that deny ' d thee Gold , will giue my Heart : Strike as thou did ' st at Caesar : For I know , When thou did ' st hate him worst , y loued ' st him better Then euer thou loued ' st Cassius
Bru .
Sheath your Dagger : Be angry when you will , it shall haue scope : Do what you will , Dishonor , shall be Humour .
O Cassius , you are yoaked with a Lambe That carries Anger , as the Flint beares fire , Who much inforced , shewes a hastie Sparke , And straite is cold agen
Cassi .
Hath Cassius liu ' d To be but Mirth and Laughter to his Brutus , When greefe and blood ill temper ' d , vexeth him ?
Bru .
When I spoke that , I was ill temper ' d too
Cassi .
Do you confesse so much ?
Giue me your hand
Bru .
And my heart too
Cassi .
O Brutus !
Bru .
What ' s the matter ?
Cassi .
Haue not you loue enough to beare with me , When that rash humour which my Mother gaue me Makes me forgetfull
Bru .
Yes Cassius , and from henceforth When you are ouer - earnest with your Brutus , Hee ' l thinke your Mother chides , and leaue you so .
Enter a Poet .
Poet .
Let me go in to see the Generals , There is some grudge betweene ' em , ' tis not meete They be alone
Lucil .
You shall not come to them
Poet .
Nothing but death shall stay me
Cas .
How now ?
What ' s the matter ?
Poet .
For shame you Generals ; what do you meane ?
Loue , and be Friends , as two such men should bee , For I haue seene more yeeres I ' me sure then yee
Cas .
Ha , ha , how vildely doth this Cynicke rime ?
Bru .
Get you hence sirra : Sawcy Fellow , hence
Cas .
Beare with him Brutus , ' tis his fashion
Brut .
Ile know his humor , when he knowes his time : What should the Warres do with these Iigging Fooles ?
Companion , hence
Cas .
Away , away be gone .
Exit Poet
Bru .
Lucillius and Titinius bid the Commanders Prepare to lodge their Companies to night
Cas .
And come your selues , & bring Messala with you Immediately to vs
Bru .
Lucius , a bowle of Wine
Cas .
I did not thinke you could haue bin so angry
Bru .
O Cassius , I am sicke of many greefes
Cas .
Of your Philosophy you make no vse , If you giue place to accidentall euils
Bru .
No man beares sorrow better .
Portia is dead
Cas .
Ha ?
Portia ?
Bru .
She is dead
Cas .
How scap ' d I killing , when I crost you so ?
O insupportable , and touching losse !
Vpon what sicknesse ?
Bru .
Impatient of my absence , And greefe , that yong Octauius with Mark Antony Haue made themselues so strong : For with her death That tydings came .
With this she fell distract , And ( her Attendants absent ) swallow ' d fire
Cas .
And dy ' d so ?
Bru .
Euen so
Cas .
O ye immortall Gods !
Enter Boy with Wine , and Tapers .
Bru .
Speak no more of her : Giue me a bowl of wine , In this I bury all vnkindnesse Cassius .
Drinkes
Cas .
My heart is thirsty for that Noble pledge .
Fill Lucius , till the Wine ore - swell the Cup : I cannot drinke too much of Brutus loue .
Enter Titinius and Messala .
Brutus .
Come in Titinius : Welcome good Messala : Now sit we close about this Taper heere , And call in question our necessities
Cass .
Portia , art thou gone ?
Bru .
No more I pray you .
Messala , I haue heere receiued Letters , That yong Octauius , and Marke Antony Come downe vpon vs with a mighty power , Bending their Expedition toward Philippi
Mess .
My selfe haue Letters of the selfe - same Tenure
Bru .
With what Addition
Mess .
That by proscription , and billes of Outlarie , Octauius , Antony , and Lepidus , Haue put to death , an hundred Senators
Bru .
Therein our Letters do not well agree : Mine speake of seuenty Senators , that dy ' de By their proscriptions , Cicero being one
Cassi .
Cicero one ?
Messa .
Cicero is dead , and by that order of proscription Had you your Letters from your wife , my Lord ?
Bru .
No Messala
Messa .
Nor nothing in your Letters writ of her ?
Bru .
Nothing Messala
Messa .
That me thinkes is strange
Bru .
Why aske you ?
Heare you ought of her , in yours ?
Messa .
No my Lord
Bru .
Now as you are a Roman tell me true
Messa .
Then like a Roman , beare the truth I tell , For certaine she is dead , and by strange manner
Bru .
Why farewell Portia : We must die Messala : With meditating that she must dye once , I haue the patience to endure it now
Messa .
Euen so great men , great losses shold indure
Cassi .
I haue as much of this in Art as you , But yet my Nature could not beare it so
Bru .
Well , to our worke aliue .
What do you thinke Of marching to Philippi presently
Cassi .
I do not thinke it good
Bru .
Your reason ?
Cassi .
This it is : ' Tis better that the Enemie seeke vs , So shall he waste his meanes , weary his Souldiers , Doing himselfe offence , whil ' st we lying still , Are full of rest , defence , and nimblenesse
Bru .
Good reasons must of force giue place to better : The people ' twixt Philippi , and this ground Do stand but in a forc ' d affection : For they haue grug ' d vs Contribution .
The Enemy , marching along by them , By them shall make a fuller number vp , Come on refresht , new added , and encourag ' d : From which aduantage shall we cut him off .
If at Philippi we do face him there , These people at our backe
Cassi .
Heare me good Brother
Bru .
Vnder your pardon .
You must note beside , That we haue tride the vtmost of our Friends : Our Legions are brim full , our cause is ripe , The Enemy encreaseth euery day , We at the height , are readie to decline .
There is a Tide in the affayres of men , Which taken at the Flood , leades on to Fortune : Omitted , all the voyage of their life , Is bound in Shallowes , and in Miseries .
On such a full Sea are we now a - float , And we must take the current when it serues , Or loose our Ventures
Cassi .
Then with your will go on : wee ' l along Our selues , and meet them at Philippi
Bru .
The deepe of night is crept vpon our talke , And Nature must obey Necessitie , Which we will niggard with a little rest : There is no more to say
Cassi .
No more , good night , Early to morrow will we rise , and hence .
Enter Lucius .
Bru .
Lucius my Gowne : farewell good Messala , Good night Titinius : Noble , Noble Cassius , Good night , and good repose
Cassi .
O my deere Brother : This was an ill beginning of the night : Neuer come such diuision ' tweene our soules : Let it not Brutus .
Enter Lucius with the Gowne .
Bru .
Euery thing is well
Cassi .
Good night my Lord
Bru .
Good night good Brother
Tit .
Messa .
Good night Lord Brutus
Bru .
Farwell euery one .
Exeunt .
Giue me the Gowne .
Where is thy Instrument ?
Luc .
Heere in the Tent
Bru .
What , thou speak ' st drowsily ?
Poore knaue I blame thee not , thou art ore - watch ' d .
Call Claudio , and some other of my men , Ile haue them sleepe on Cushions in my Tent
Luc .
Varrus , and Claudio .
Enter Varrus and Claudio .
Var .
Cals my Lord ?
Bru .
I pray you sirs , lye in my Tent and sleepe , It may be I shall raise you by and by On businesse to my Brother Cassius
Var .
So please you , we will stand , And watch your pleasure
Bru .
I will it not haue it so : Lye downe good sirs , It may be I shall otherwise bethinke me .
Looke Lucius , heere ' s the booke I sought for so : I put it in the pocket of my Gowne
Luc .
I was sure your Lordship did not giue it me
Bru .
Beare with me good Boy , I am much forgetfull .
Canst thou hold vp thy heauie eyes a - while , And touch thy Instrument a straine or two
Luc .
I my Lord , an ' t please you
Bru .
It does my Boy : I trouble thee too much , but thou art willing
Luc .
It is my duty Sir
Brut .
I should not vrge thy duty past thy might , I know yong bloods looke for a time of rest
Luc .
I haue slept my Lord already
Bru .
It was well done , and thou shalt sleepe againe : I will not hold thee long .
If I do liue , I will be good to thee .
Musicke , and a Song .
This is a sleepy Tune : O Murd ' rous slumber !
Layest thou thy Leaden Mace vpon my Boy , That playes thee Musicke ?
Gentle knaue good night : I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee : If thou do ' st nod , thou break ' st thy Instrument , Ile take it from thee , and ( good Boy ) good night .
Let me see , let me see ; is not the Leafe turn ' d downe Where I left reading ?
Heere it is I thinke .
Enter the Ghost of Caesar .
How ill this Taper burnes .
Ha !
Who comes heere ?
I thinke it is the weakenesse of mine eyes That shapes this monstrous Apparition .
It comes vpon me : Art thou any thing ?
Art thou some God , some Angell , or some Diuell , That mak ' st my blood cold , and my haire to stare ?
Speake to me , what thou art
Ghost .
Thy euill Spirit Brutus ?
Bru .
Why com ' st thou ?
Ghost .
To tell thee thou shalt see me at Philippi
Brut .
Well : then I shall see thee againe ?
Ghost .
I , at Philippi
Brut .
Why I will see thee at Philippi then : Now I haue taken heart , thou vanishest .
Ill Spirit , I would hold more talke with thee .
Boy , Lucius , Varrus , Claudio , Sirs : Awake : Claudio
Luc .
The strings my Lord , are false
Bru .
He thinkes he still is at his Instrument .
Lucius , awake
Luc .
My Lord
Bru .
Did ' st thou dreame Lucius , that thou so cryedst out ?
Luc .
My Lord , I do not know that I did cry
Bru .
Yes that thou did ' st : Did ' st thou see any thing ?
Luc .
Nothing my Lord
Bru .
Sleepe againe Lucius : Sirra Claudio , Fellow , Thou : Awake
Var .
My Lord
Clau .
My Lord
Bru .
Why did you so cry out sirs , in your sleepe ?
Both .
Did we my Lord ?
Bru .
I : saw you any thing ?
Var .
No my Lord , I saw nothing
Clau .
Nor I my Lord
Bru .
Go , and commend me to my Brother Cassius : Bid him set on his Powres betimes before , And we will follow
Both .
It shall be done my Lord .
Exeunt .
Actus Quintus .
Enter Octauius , Antony , and their Army .
Octa .
Now Antony , our hopes are answered , You said the Enemy would not come downe , But keepe the Hilles and vpper Regions : It proues not so : their battailes are at hand , They meane to warne vs at Philippi heere : Answering before we do demand of them
Ant .
Tut I am in their bosomes , and I know Wherefore they do it : They could be content To visit other places , and come downe With fearefull brauery : thinking by this face To fasten in our thoughts that they haue Courage ; But ' tis not so .
Enter a Messenger .
Mes .
Prepare you Generals , The Enemy comes on in gallant shew : Their bloody signe of Battell is hung out , And something to be done immediately
Ant .
Octauius , leade your Battaile softly on Vpon the left hand of the euen Field
Octa .
Vpon the right hand I , keepe thou the left
Ant .
Why do you crosse me in this exigent
Octa .
I do not crosse you : but I will do so .
March .
Drum .
Enter Brutus , Cassius , & their Army .
Bru .
They stand , and would haue parley
Cassi .
Stand fast Titinius , we must out and talke
Octa .
Mark Antony , shall we giue signe of Battaile ?
Ant .
No Caesar , we will answer on their Charge .
Make forth , the Generals would haue some words
Oct . Stirre not vntill the Signall
Bru .
Words before blowes : is it so Countrymen ?
Octa .
Not that we loue words better , as you do
Bru .
Good words are better then bad strokes Octauius
An .
In your bad strokes Brutus , you giue good words Witnesse the hole you made in Caesars heart , Crying long liue , Haile Caesar
Cassi .
Antony , The posture of your blowes are yet vnknowne ; But for your words , they rob the Hibla Bees , And leaue them Hony - lesse
Ant .
Not stinglesse too
Bru .
O yes , and soundlesse too : For you haue stolne their buzzing Antony , And very wisely threat before you sting
Ant .
Villains : you did not so , when your vile daggers Hackt one another in the sides of Caesar : You shew ' d your teethes like Apes , And fawn ' d like Hounds , And bow ' d like Bondmen , kissing Caesars feete ; Whil ' st damned Caska , like a Curre , behinde Strooke Caesar on the necke .
O you Flatterers
Cassi .
Flatterers ?
Now Brutus thanke your selfe , This tongue had not offended so to day .
If Cassius might haue rul ' d
Octa .
Come , come , the cause .
If arguing make vs swet , The proofe of it will turne to redder drops : Looke , I draw a Sword against Conspirators , When thinke you that the Sword goes vp againe ?
Neuer till Caesars three and thirtie wounds Be well aueng ' d ; or till another Caesar Haue added slaughter to the Sword of Traitors
Brut .
Caesar , thou canst not dye by Traitors hands .
Vnlesse thou bring ' st them with thee
Octa .
So I hope : I was not borne to dye on Brutus Sword
Bru .
O if thou wer ' t the Noblest of thy Straine , Yong - man , thou could ' st not dye more honourable
Cassi .
A peeuish School - boy , worthles of such Honor Ioyn ' d with a Masker , and a Reueller
Ant .
Old Cassius still
Octa .
Come Antony : away : Defiance Traitors , hurle we in your teeth .
If you dare fight to day , come to the Field ; If not , when you haue stomackes .
Exit Octauius , Antony , and Army
Cassi .
Why now blow winde , swell Billow , And swimme Barke : The Storme is vp , and all is on the hazard
Bru .
Ho Lucillius , hearke , a word with you .
Lucillius and Messala stand forth .
Luc .
My Lord
Cassi .
Messala
Messa .
What sayes my Generall ?
Cassi .
Messala , this is my Birth - day : at this very day Was Cassius borne .
Giue me thy hand Messala : Be thou my witnesse , that against my will ( As Pompey was ) am I compell ' d to set Vpon one Battell all our Liberties .
You know , that I held Epicurus strong , And his Opinion : Now I change my minde , And partly credit things that do presage .
Comming from Sardis , on our former Ensigne Two mighty Eagles fell , and there they pearch ' d , Gorging and feeding from our Soldiers hands , Who to Philippi heere consorted vs : This Morning are they fled away , and gone , And in their steeds , do Rauens , Crowes , and Kites Fly ore our heads , and downward looke on vs As we were sickely prey ; their shadowes seeme A Canopy most fatall , vnder which Our Army lies , ready to giue vp the Ghost
Messa .
Beleeue not so
Cassi .
I but beleeue it partly , For I am fresh of spirit , and resolu ' d To meete all perils , very constantly
Bru .
Euen so Lucillius
Cassi .
Now most Noble Brutus , The Gods to day stand friendly , that we may Louers in peace , leade on our dayes to age .
But since the affayres of men rests still incertaine , Let ' s reason with the worst that may befall .
If we do lose this Battaile , then is this The very last time we shall speake together : What are you then determined to do ?
Bru .
Euen by the rule of that Philosophy , By which I did blame Cato , for the death Which he did giue himselfe , I know not how : But I do finde it Cowardly , and vile , For feare of what might fall , so to preuent The time of life , arming my selfe with patience , To stay the prouidence of some high Powers , That gouerne vs below
Cassi .
Then , if we loose this Battaile , You are contented to be led in Triumph Thorow the streets of Rome
Bru .
No Cassius , no : Thinke not thou Noble Romane , That euer Brutus will go bound to Rome , He beares too great a minde .
But this same day Must end that worke , the Ides of March begun .
And whether we shall meete againe , I know not : Therefore our euerlasting farewell take : For euer , and for euer , farewell Cassius , If we do meete againe , why we shall smile ; If not , why then this parting was well made
Cassi .
For euer , and for euer , farewell Brutus : If we do meete againe , wee ' l smile indeede ; If not , ' tis true , this parting was well made
Bru .
Why then leade on .
O that a man might know The end of this dayes businesse , ere it come : But it sufficeth , that the day will end , And then the end is knowne .
Come ho , away .
Exeunt .
Alarum .
Enter Brutus and Messala .
Bru .
Ride , ride Messala , ride and giue these Billes Vnto the Legions , on the other side .
Lowd Alarum .
Let them set on at once : for I perceiue But cold demeanor in Octauio ' s wing : And sodaine push giues them the ouerthrow : Ride , ride Messala , let them all come downe .
Exeunt .
Alarums .
Enter Cassius and Titinius .
Cassi .
O looke Titinius , looke , the Villaines flye : My selfe haue to mine owne turn ' d Enemy : This Ensigne heere of mine was turning backe , I slew the Coward , and did take it from him
Titin .
O Cassius , Brutus gaue the word too early , Who hauing some aduantage on Octauius , Tooke it too eagerly : his Soldiers fell to spoyle , Whilst we by Antony are all inclos ' d .
Enter Pindarus .
Pind .
Fly further off my Lord : flye further off , Mark Antony is in your Tents my Lord : Flye therefore Noble Cassius , flye farre off
Cassi .
This Hill is farre enough .
Looke , look Titinius Are those my Tents where I perceiue the fire ?
Tit .
They are , my Lord
Cassi .
Titinius , if thou louest me , Mount thou my horse , and hide thy spurres in him , Till he haue brought thee vp to yonder Troopes And heere againe , that I may rest assur ' d Whether yond Troopes , are Friend or Enemy
Tit .
I will be heere againe , euen with a thought .
Enter .
Cassi .
Go Pindarus , get higher on that hill , My sight was euer thicke : regard Titinius , And tell me what thou not ' st about the Field .
This day I breathed first , Time is come round , And where I did begin , there shall I end , My life is run his compasse .
Sirra , what newes ?
Pind .
Aboue .
O my Lord
Cassi .
What newes ?
Pind .
Titinius is enclosed round about With Horsemen , that make to him on the Spurre , Yet he spurres on .
Now they are almost on him : Now Titinius .
Now some light : O he lights too .
Hee ' s tane .
Showt .
And hearke , they shout for ioy
Cassi .
Come downe , behold no more : O Coward that I am , to liue so long , To see my best Friend tane before my face Enter Pindarus .
Come hither sirrah : In Parthia did I take thee Prisoner , And then I swore thee , sauing of thy life , That whatsoeuer I did bid thee do , Thou should ' st attempt it .
Come now , keepe thine oath , Now be a Free - man , and with this good Sword That ran through Caesars bowels , search this bosome .
Stand not to answer : Heere , take thou the Hilts , And when my face is couer ' d , as ' tis now , Guide thou the Sword - Caesar , thou art reueng ' d , Euen with the Sword that kill ' d thee
Pin .
So , I am free , Yet would not so haue beene Durst I haue done my will .
O Cassius , Farre from this Country Pindarus shall run , Where neuer Roman shall take note of him .
Enter Titinius and Messala .
Messa .
It is but change , Titinius : for Octauius Is ouerthrowne by Noble Brutus power , As Cassius Legions are by Antony
Titin .
These tydings will well comfort Cassius
Messa .
Where did you leaue him
Titin .
All disconsolate , With Pindarus his Bondman , on this Hill
Messa .
Is not that he that lyes vpon the ground ?
Titin .
He lies not like the Liuing .
O my heart !
Messa .
Is not that hee ?
Titin .
No , this was he Messala , But Cassius is no more .
O setting Sunne : As in thy red Rayes thou doest sinke to night ; So in his red blood Cassius day is set .
The Sunne of Rome is set .
Our day is gone , Clowds , Dewes , and Dangers come ; our deeds are done : Mistrust of my successe hath done this deed
Messa .
Mistrust of good successe hath done this deed .
O hatefull Error , Melancholies Childe : Why do ' st thou shew to the apt thoughts of men The things that are not ?
O Error soone conceyu ' d , Thou neuer com ' st vnto a happy byrth , But kil ' st the Mother that engendred thee
Tit .
What Pindarus ?
Where art thou Pindarus ?
Messa .
Seeke him Titinius , whilst I go to meet The Noble Brutus , thrusting this report Into his eares ; I may say thrusting it : For piercing Steele , and Darts inuenomed , Shall be as welcome to the eares of Brutus , As tydings of this sight
Tit .
Hye you Messala , And I will seeke for Pindarus the while : Why did ' st thou send me forth braue Cassius ?
Did I not meet thy Friends , and did not they Put on my Browes this wreath of Victorie , And bid me giue it thee ?
Did ' st thou not heare their showts ?
Alas , thou hast misconstrued euery thing .
But hold thee , take this Garland on thy Brow , Thy Brutus bid me giue it thee , and I Will do his bidding .
Brutus , come apace , And see how I regarded Caius Cassius : By your leaue Gods : This is a Romans part , Come Cassius Sword , and finde Titinius hart .
Dies
Alarum .
Enter Brutus , Messala , yong Cato , Strato , Volumnius , and Lucillius .
Bru .
Where , where Messala , doth his body lye ?
Messa .
Loe yonder , and Titinius mourning it
Bru .
Titinius face is vpward
Cato .
He is slaine
Bru .
O Iulius Caesar , thou art mighty yet , Thy Spirit walkes abroad , and turnes our Swords In our owne proper Entrailes .
Low Alarums
Cato .
Braue Titinius , Looke where he haue not crown ' d dead Cassius
Bru .
Are yet two Romans liuing such as these ?
The last of all the Romans , far thee well : It is impossible , that euer Rome Should breed thy fellow .
Friends I owe mo teares To this dead man , then you shall see me pay .
I shall finde time , Cassius : I shall finde time .
Come therefore , and to Tharsus send his body , His Funerals shall not be in our Campe , Least it discomfort vs . Lucillius come , And come yong Cato , let vs to the Field , Labio and Flauio set our Battailes on : ' Tis three a clocke , and Romans yet ere night , We shall try Fortune in a second fight .
Exeunt .
Alarum .
Enter Brutus , Messala , Cato , Lucillius , and Flauius .
Bru .
Yet Country - men : O yet , hold vp your heads
Cato .
What Bastard doth not ?
Who will go with me ?
I will proclaime my name about the Field .
I am the Sonne of Marcus Cato , hoe .
A Foe to Tyrants , and my Countries Friend .
I am the Sonne of Marcus Cato , hoe .
Enter Souldiers , and fight .
And I am Brutus , Marcus Brutus , I , Brutus my Countries Friend : Know me for Brutus
Luc .
O yong and Noble Cato , art thou downe ?
Why now thou dyest , as brauely as Titinius , And may ' st be honour ' d , being Cato ' s Sonne
Sold .
Yeeld , or thou dyest
Luc .
Onely I yeeld to dye : There is so much , that thou wilt kill me straight : Kill Brutus , and be honour ' d in his death
Sold .
We must not : a Noble Prisoner .
Enter Antony .
2 . Sold .
Roome hoe : tell Antony , Brutus is tane
1 . Sold .
Ile tell thee newes .
Heere comes the Generall , Brutus is tane , Brutus is tane my Lord
Ant .
Where is hee ?
Luc .
Safe Antony , Brutus is safe enough : I dare assure thee , that no Enemy Shall euer take aliue the Noble Brutus : The Gods defend him from so great a shame , When you do finde him , or aliue , or dead , He will be found like Brutus , like himselfe
Ant .
This is not Brutus friend , but I assure you , A prize no lesse in worth ; keepe this man safe , Giue him all kindnesse .
I had rather haue Such men my Friends , then Enemies .
Go on , And see where Brutus be aliue or dead , And bring vs word , vnto Octauius Tent : How euery thing is chanc ' d .
Exeunt .
Enter Brutus , Dardanius , Clitus , Strato , and Volumnius .
Brut .
Come poore remaines of friends , rest on this Rocke
Clit .
Statillius shew ' d the Torch - light , but my Lord He came not backe : he is or tane , or slaine
Brut .
Sit thee downe , Clitus : slaying is the word , It is a deed in fashion .
Hearke thee , Clitus
Clit .
What I , my Lord ?
No , not for all the World
Brut .
Peace then , no words
Clit .
Ile rather kill my selfe
Brut .
Hearke thee , Dardanius
Dard .
Shall I doe such a deed ?
Clit .
O Dardanius
Dard .
O Clitus
Clit .
What ill request did Brutus make to thee ?
Dard .
To kill him , Clitus : looke he meditates
Clit .
Now is that Noble Vessell full of griefe , That it runnes ouer euen at his eyes
Brut .
Come hither , good Volumnius , list a word
Volum .
What sayes my Lord ?
Brut .
Why this , Volumnius : The Ghost of Caesar hath appear ' d to me Two seuerall times by Night : at Sardis , once ; And this last Night , here in Philippi fields : I know my houre is come
Volum .
Not so , my Lord
Brut .
Nay , I am sure it is , Volumnius .
Thou seest the World , Volumnius , how it goes , Our Enemies haue beat vs to the Pit :
Low Alarums .
It is more worthy , to leape in our selues , Then tarry till they push vs . Good Volumnius , Thou know ' st , that we two went to Schoole together : Euen for that our loue of old , I prethee Hold thou my Sword Hilts , whilest I runne on it
Vol .
That ' s not an Office for a friend , my Lord .
Alarum still .
Cly .
Fly , flye my Lord , there is no tarrying heere
Bru .
Farewell to you , and you , and Volumnius .
Strato , thou hast bin all this while asleepe : Farewell to thee , to Strato , Countrymen : My heart doth ioy , that yet in all my life , I found no man , but he was true to me .
I shall haue glory by this loosing day More then Octauius , and Marke Antony , By this vile Conquest shall attaine vnto .
So fare you well at once , for Brutus tongue Hath almost ended his liues History : Night hangs vpon mine eyes , my Bones would rest , That haue but labour ' d , to attaine this houre .
Alarum .
Cry within , Flye , flye , flye .
Cly .
Fly my Lord , flye
Bru .
Hence : I will follow : I prythee Strato , stay thou by thy Lord , Thou art a Fellow of a good respect : Thy life hath had some smatch of Honor in it , Hold then my Sword , and turne away thy face , While I do run vpon it .
Wilt thou Strato ?
Stra .
Giue me your hand first .
Fare you wel my Lord
Bru .
Farewell good Strato .
- Caesar , now be still , I kill ' d not thee with halfe so good a will .
Dyes .
Alarum .
Retreat .
Enter Antony , Octauius , Messala , Lucillius , and the Army .
Octa .
What man is that ?
Messa .
My Masters man .
Strato , where is thy Master ?
Stra .
Free from the Bondage you are in Messala , The Conquerors can but make a fire of him : For Brutus onely ouercame himselfe , And no man else hath Honor by his death
Lucil .
So Brutus should be found .
I thank thee Brutus That thou hast prou ' d Lucillius saying true , Octa .
All that seru ' d Brutus , I will entertaine them .
Fellow , wilt thou bestow thy time with me ?
Stra .
I , if Messala will preferre me to you
Octa .
Do so , good Messala
Messa .
How dyed my Master Strato ?
Stra .
I held the Sword , and he did run on it
Messa .
Octauius , then take him to follow thee , That did the latest seruice to my Master
Ant .
This was the Noblest Roman of them all : All the Conspirators saue onely hee , Did that they did , in enuy of great Caesar : He , onely in a generall honest thought , And common good to all , made one of them .
His life was gentle , and the Elements So mixt in him , that Nature might stand vp , And say to all the world ; This was a man
Octa .
According to his Vertue , let vs vse him Withall Respect , and Rites of Buriall .
Within my Tent his bones to night shall ly , Most like a Souldier ordered Honourably : So call the Field to rest , and let ' s away , To part the glories of this happy day .
Exeunt .
omnes .
FINIS .
THE TRAGEDIE OF IVLIVS CaeSAR .
[ The Tragedie of Hamlet by William Shakespeare 1599 ]
Actus Primus .
Scoena Prima .
Enter Barnardo and Francisco two Centinels .
Barnardo .
Who ' s there ?
Fran .
Nay answer me : Stand & vnfold your selfe
Bar .
Long liue the King
Fran .
Barnardo ?
Bar .
He
Fran .
You come most carefully vpon your houre
Bar .
' Tis now strook twelue , get thee to bed Francisco
Fran .
For this releefe much thankes : ' Tis bitter cold , And I am sicke at heart
Barn .
Haue you had quiet Guard ?
Fran .
Not a Mouse stirring
Barn .
Well , goodnight .
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus , the Riuals of my Watch , bid them make hast .
Enter Horatio and Marcellus .
Fran .
I thinke I heare them .
Stand : who ' s there ?
Hor .
Friends to this ground
Mar .
And Leige - men to the Dane
Fran .
Giue you good night
Mar .
O farwel honest Soldier , who hath relieu ' d you ?
Fra .
Barnardo ha ' s my place : giue you goodnight .
Exit Fran .
Mar .
Holla Barnardo
Bar .
Say , what is Horatio there ?
Hor .
A peece of him
Bar .
Welcome Horatio , welcome good Marcellus
Mar .
What , ha ' s this thing appear ' d againe to night
Bar .
I haue seene nothing
Mar .
Horatio saies , ' tis but our Fantasie , And will not let beleefe take hold of him Touching this dreaded sight , twice seene of vs , Therefore I haue intreated him along With vs , to watch the minutes of this Night , That if againe this Apparition come , He may approue our eyes , and speake to it
Hor .
Tush , tush , ' twill not appeare
Bar .
Sit downe a - while , And let vs once againe assaile your eares , That are so fortified against our Story , What we two Nights haue seene
Hor .
Well , sit we downe , And let vs heare Barnardo speake of this
Barn .
Last night of all , When yond same Starre that ' s Westward from the Pole Had made his course t ' illume that part of Heauen Where now it burnes , Marcellus and my selfe , The Bell then beating one
Mar .
Peace , breake thee of : Enter the Ghost .
Looke where it comes againe
Barn .
In the same figure , like the King that ' s dead
Mar .
Thou art a Scholler ; speake to it Horatio
Barn .
Lookes it not like the King ?
Marke it Horatio
Hora .
Most like : It harrowes me with fear & wonder Barn .
It would be spoke too
Mar .
Question it Horatio
Hor .
What art thou that vsurp ' st this time of night , Together with that Faire and Warlike forme In which the Maiesty of buried Denmarke Did sometimes march : By Heauen I charge thee speake
Mar .
It is offended
Barn .
See , it stalkes away
Hor .
Stay : speake ; speake : I Charge thee , speake .
Exit the Ghost .
Mar .
' Tis gone , and will not answer
Barn .
How now Horatio ?
You tremble & look pale : Is not this something more then Fantasie ?
What thinke you on ' t ?
Hor .
Before my God , I might not this beleeue Without the sensible and true auouch Of mine owne eyes
Mar .
Is it not like the King ?
Hor .
As thou art to thy selfe , Such was the very Armour he had on , When th ' Ambitious Norwey combatted : So frown ' d he once , when in an angry parle He smot the sledded Pollax on the Ice .
' Tis strange
Mar .
Thus twice before , and iust at this dead houre , With Martiall stalke , hath he gone by our Watch
Hor .
In what particular thought to work , I know not : But in the grosse and scope of my Opinion , This boades some strange erruption to our State
Mar .
Good now sit downe , & tell me he that knowes Why this same strict and most obseruant Watch , So nightly toyles the subiect of the Land , And why such dayly Cast of Brazon Cannon And Forraigne Mart for Implements of warre : Why such impresse of Ship - wrights , whose sore Taske Do ' s not diuide the Sunday from the weeke , What might be toward , that this sweaty hast Doth make the Night ioynt - Labourer with the day : Who is ' t that can informe me ?
Hor .
That can I , At least the whisper goes so : Our last King , Whose Image euen but now appear ' d to vs , Was ( as you know ) by Fortinbras of Norway , ( Thereto prick ' d on by a most emulate Pride ) Dar ' d to the Combate .
In which , our Valiant Hamlet , ( For so this side of our knowne world esteem ' d him ) Did slay this Fortinbras : who by a Seal ' d Compact , Well ratified by Law , and Heraldrie , Did forfeite ( with his life ) all those his Lands Which he stood seiz ' d on , to the Conqueror : Against the which , a Moity competent Was gaged by our King : which had return ' d To the Inheritance of Fortinbras , Had he bin Vanquisher , as by the same Cou ' nant And carriage of the Article designe , His fell to Hamlet .
Now sir , young Fortinbras , Of vnimproued Mettle , hot and full , Hath in the skirts of Norway , heere and there , Shark ' d vp a List of Landlesse Resolutes , For Foode and Diet , to some Enterprize That hath a stomacke in ' t : which is no other ( And it doth well appeare vnto our State ) But to recouer of vs by strong hand And termes Compulsatiue , those foresaid Lands So by his Father lost : and this ( I take it ) Is the maine Motiue of our Preparations , The Sourse of this our Watch , and the cheefe head Of this post - hast , and Romage in the Land .
Enter Ghost againe .
But soft , behold : Loe , where it comes againe : Ile crosse it , though it blast me .
Stay Illusion : If thou hast any sound , or vse of Voyce , Speake to me .
If there be any good thing to be done , That may to thee do ease , and grace to me ; speak to me .
If thou art priuy to thy Countries Fate ( Which happily foreknowing may auoyd ) Oh speake .
Or , if thou hast vp - hoorded in thy life Extorted Treasure in the wombe of Earth , ( For which , they say , you Spirits oft walke in death ) Speake of it .
Stay , and speake .
Stop it Marcellus
Mar .
Shall I strike at it with my Partizan ?
Hor .
Do , if it will not stand
Barn .
' Tis heere
Hor .
' Tis heere
Mar .
' Tis gone .
Exit Ghost .
We do it wrong , being so Maiesticall To offer it the shew of Violence , For it is as the Ayre , invulnerable , And our vaine blowes , malicious Mockery
Barn .
It was about to speake , when the Cocke crew
Hor .
And then it started , like a guilty thing Vpon a fearfull Summons .
I haue heard , The Cocke that is the Trumpet to the day , Doth with his lofty and shrill - sounding Throate Awake the God of Day : and at his warning , Whether in Sea , or Fire , in Earth , or Ayre , Th ' extrauagant , and erring Spirit , hyes To his Confine .
And of the truth heerein , This present Obiect made probation
Mar .
It faded on the crowing of the Cocke .
Some sayes , that euer ' gainst that Season comes Wherein our Sauiours Birch is celebrated , The Bird of Dawning singeth all night long : And then ( they say ) no Spirit can walke abroad , The nights are wholsome , then no Planets strike , No Faiery talkes , nor Witch hath power to Charme : So hallow ' d , and so gracious is the time
Hor .
So haue I heard , and do in part beleeue it .
But looke , the Morne in Russet mantle clad , Walkes o ' re the dew of yon high Easterne Hill , Breake we our Watch vp , and by my aduice Let vs impart what we haue seene to night Vnto yong Hamlet .
For vpon my life , This Spirit dumbe to vs , will speake to him : Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it , As needfull in our Loues , fitting our Duty ?
Mar .
Let do ' t I pray , and I this morning know Where we shall finde him most conueniently .
Exeunt .
Scena Secunda .
Enter Claudius King of Denmarke , Gertrude the Queene , Hamlet , Polonius , Laertes , and his Sister Ophelia , Lords Attendant .
King .
Though yet of Hamlet our deere Brothers death The memory be greene : and that it vs befitted To beare our hearts in greefe , and our whole Kingdome To be contracted in one brow of woe : Yet so farre hath Discretion fought with Nature , That we with wisest sorrow thinke on him , Together with remembrance of our selues .
Therefore our sometimes Sister , now our Queene , Th ' imperiall Ioyntresse of this warlike State , Haue we , as ' twere , with a defeated ioy , With one Auspicious , and one Dropping eye , With mirth in Funerall , and with Dirge in Marriage , In equall Scale weighing Delight and Dole Taken to Wife ; nor haue we heerein barr ' d Your better Wisedomes , which haue freely gone With this affaire along , for all our Thankes .
Now followes , that you know young Fortinbras , Holding a weake supposall of our worth ; Or thinking by our late deere Brothers death , Our State to be disioynt , and out of Frame , Colleagued with the dreame of his Aduantage ; He hath not fayl ' d to pester vs with Message , Importing the surrender of those Lands Lost by his Father : with all Bonds of Law To our most valiant Brother .
So much for him .
Enter Voltemand and Cornelius .
Now for our selfe , and for this time of meeting Thus much the businesse is .
We haue heere writ To Norway , Vncle of young Fortinbras , Who Impotent and Bedrid , scarsely heares Of this his Nephewes purpose , to suppresse His further gate heerein .
In that the Leuies , The Lists , and full proportions are all made Out of his subiect : and we heere dispatch You good Cornelius , and you Voltemand , For bearing of this greeting to old Norway , Giuing to you no further personall power To businesse with the King , more then the scope Of these dilated Articles allow : Farewell , and let your hast commend your duty
Volt .
In that , and all things , will we shew our duty
King .
We doubt it nothing , heartily farewell .
Exit Voltemand and Cornelius .
And now Laertes , what ' s the newes with you ?
You told vs of some suite .
What is ' t Laertes ?
You cannot speake of Reason to the Dane , And loose your voyce .
What would ' st thou beg Laertes , That shall not be my Offer , not thy Asking ?
The Head is not more Natiue to the Heart , The Hand more instrumentall to the Mouth , Then is the Throne of Denmarke to thy Father .
What would ' st thou haue Laertes ?
Laer .
Dread my Lord , Your leaue and fauour to returne to France , From whence , though willingly I came to Denmarke To shew my duty in your Coronation , Yet now I must confesse , that duty done , My thoughts and wishes bend againe towards France , And bow them to your gracious leaue and pardon
King .
Haue you your Fathers leaue ?
What sayes Pollonius ?
Pol .
He hath my Lord : I do beseech you giue him leaue to go
King .
Take thy faire houre Laertes , time be thine , And thy best graces spend it at thy will : But now my Cosin Hamlet , and my Sonne ?
Ham .
A little more then kin , and lesse then kinde
King .
How is it that the Clouds still hang on you ?
Ham .
Not so my Lord , I am too much i ' th ' Sun
Queen .
Good Hamlet cast thy nightly colour off , And let thine eye looke like a Friend on Denmarke .
Do not for euer with thy veyled lids Seeke for thy Noble Father in the dust ; Thou know ' st ' tis common , all that liues must dye , Passing through Nature , to Eternity
Ham .
I Madam , it is common
Queen .
If it be ; Why seemes it so particular with thee
Ham .
Seemes Madam ?
Nay , it is : I know not Seemes : ' Tis not alone my Inky Cloake ( good Mother ) Nor Customary suites of solemne Blacke , Nor windy suspiration of forc ' d breath , No , nor the fruitfull Riuer in the Eye , Nor the deiected hauiour of the Visage , Together with all Formes , Moods , shewes of Griefe , That can denote me truly .
These indeed Seeme , For they are actions that a man might play : But I haue that Within , which passeth show ; These , but the Trappings , and the Suites of woe
King .
' Tis sweet and commendable In your Nature Hamlet , To giue these mourning duties to your Father : But you must know , your Father lost a Father , That Father lost , lost his , and the Suruiuer bound In filiall Obligation , for some terme To do obsequious Sorrow .
But to perseuer In obstinate Condolement , is a course Of impious stubbornnesse .
' Tis vnmanly greefe , It shewes a will most incorrect to Heauen , A Heart vnfortified , a Minde impatient , An Vnderstanding simple , and vnschool ' d : For , what we know must be , and is as common As any the most vulgar thing to sence , Why should we in our peeuish Opposition Take it to heart ?
Fye , ' tis a fault to Heauen , A fault against the Dead , a fault to Nature , To Reason most absurd , whose common Theame Is death of Fathers , and who still hath cried , From the first Coarse , till he that dyed to day , This must be so .
We pray you throw to earth This vnpreuayling woe , and thinke of vs As of a Father ; For let the world take note , You are the most immediate to our Throne , And with no lesse Nobility of Loue , Then that which deerest Father beares his Sonne , Do I impart towards you .
For your intent In going backe to Schoole in Wittenberg , It is most retrograde to our desire : And we beseech you , bend you to remaine Heere in the cheere and comfort of our eye , Our cheefest Courtier Cosin , and our Sonne
Qu .
Let not thy Mother lose her Prayers Hamlet : I prythee stay with vs , go not to Wittenberg
Ham .
I shall in all my best Obey you Madam
King .
Why ' tis a louing , and a faire Reply , Be as our selfe in Denmarke .
Madam come , This gentle and vnforc ' d accord of Hamlet Sits smiling to my heart ; in grace whereof , No iocond health that Denmarke drinkes to day , But the great Cannon to the Clowds shall tell , And the Kings Rouce , the Heauens shall bruite againe , Respeaking earthly Thunder .
Come away .
Exeunt .
Manet Hamlet .
Ham .
Oh that this too too solid Flesh , would melt , Thaw , and resolue it selfe into a Dew : Or that the Euerlasting had not fixt His Cannon ' gainst Selfe - slaughter .
O God , O God !
How weary , stale , flat , and vnprofitable Seemes to me all the vses of this world ?
Fie on ' t ?
Oh fie , fie , ' tis an vnweeded Garden That growes to Seed : Things rank , and grosse in Nature Possesse it meerely .
That it should come to this : But two months dead : Nay , not so much ; not two , So excellent a King , that was to this Hiperion to a Satyre : so louing to my Mother , That he might not beteene the windes of heauen Visit her face too roughly .
Heauen and Earth Must I remember : why she would hang on him , As if encrease of Appetite had growne By what is fed on ; and yet within a month ?
Let me not thinke on ' t : Frailty , thy name is woman .
A little Month , or ere those shooes were old , With which she followed my poore Fathers body Like Niobe , all teares .
Why she , euen she .
( O Heauen !
A beast that wants discourse of Reason Would haue mourn ' d longer ) married with mine Vnkle , My Fathers Brother : but no more like my Father , Then I to Hercules .
Within a Moneth ?
Ere yet the salt of most vnrighteous Teares Had left the flushing of her gauled eyes , She married .
O most wicked speed , to post With such dexterity to Incestuous sheets : It is not , nor it cannot come to good .
But breake my heart , for I must hold my tongue .
Enter Horatio , Barnardo , and Marcellus .
Hor .
Haile to your Lordship
Ham .
I am glad to see you well : Horatio , or I do forget my selfe
Hor .
The same my Lord , And your poore Seruant euer
Ham .
Sir my good friend , Ile change that name with you : And what make you from Wittenberg Horatio ?
Marcellus
Mar .
My good Lord
Ham .
I am very glad to see you : good euen Sir .
But what in faith make you from Wittemberge ?
Hor .
A truant disposition , good my Lord
Ham .
I would not haue your Enemy say so ; Nor shall you doe mine eare that violence , To make it truster of your owne report Against your selfe .
I know you are no Truant : But what is your affaire in Elsenour ?
Wee ' l teach you to drinke deepe , ere you depart
Hor .
My Lord , I came to see your Fathers Funerall
Ham .
I pray thee doe not mock me ( fellow Student ) I thinke it was to see my Mothers Wedding
Hor .
Indeed my Lord , it followed hard vpon
Ham .
Thrift thrift Horatio : the Funerall Bakt - meats Did coldly furnish forth the Marriage Tables ; Would I had met my dearest foe in heauen , Ere I had euer seene that day Horatio .
My father , me thinkes I see my father
Hor .
Oh where my Lord ?
Ham .
In my minds eye ( Horatio ) Hor .
I saw him once ; he was a goodly King
Ham .
He was a man , take him for all in all : I shall not look vpon his like againe
Hor .
My Lord , I thinke I saw him yesternight
Ham .
Saw ?
Who ?
Hor .
My Lord , the King your Father
Ham .
The King my Father ?
Hor .
Season your admiration for a while With an attent eare ; till I may deliuer Vpon the witnesse of these Gentlemen , This maruell to you
Ham .
For Heauens loue let me heare
Hor .
Two nights together , had these Gentlemen ( Marcellus and Barnardo ) on their Watch In the dead wast and middle of the night Beene thus encountred .
A figure like your Father , Arm ' d at all points exactly , Cap a Pe , Appeares before them , and with sollemne march Goes slow and stately : By them thrice he walkt , By their opprest and feare - surprized eyes , Within his Truncheons length ; whilst they bestil ' d Almost to Ielly with the Act of feare , Stand dumbe and speake not to him .
This to me In dreadfull secrecie impart they did , And I with them the third Night kept the Watch , Whereas they had deliuer ' d both in time , Forme of the thing ; each word made true and good , The Apparition comes .
I knew your Father : These hands are not more like
Ham .
But where was this ?
Mar .
My Lord vpon the platforme where we watcht
Ham .
Did you not speake to it ?
Hor .
My Lord , I did ; But answere made it none : yet once me thought It lifted vp it head , and did addresse It selfe to motion , like as it would speake : But euen then , the Morning Cocke crew lowd ; And at the sound it shrunke in hast away , And vanisht from our sight
Ham .
Tis very strange
Hor .
As I doe liue my honourd Lord ' tis true ; And we did thinke it writ downe in our duty To let you know of it
Ham .
Indeed , indeed Sirs ; but this troubles me .
Hold you the watch to Night ?
Both .
We doe my Lord
Ham .
Arm ' d , say you ?
Both .
Arm ' d , my Lord
Ham .
From top to toe ?
Both .
My Lord , from head to foote
Ham .
Then saw you not his face ?
Hor .
O yes , my Lord , he wore his Beauer vp
Ham .
What , lookt he frowningly ?
Hor .
A countenance more in sorrow then in anger
Ham .
Pale , or red ?
Hor .
Nay very pale
Ham .
And fixt his eyes vpon you ?
Hor .
Most constantly
Ham .
I would I had beene there
Hor .
It would haue much amaz ' d you
Ham .
Very like , very like : staid it long ?
Hor .
While one with moderate hast might tell a hundred
All .
Longer , longer
Hor .
Not when I saw ' t
Ham .
His Beard was grisly ?
no
Hor .
It was , as I haue seene it in his life , A Sable Siluer ' d
Ham .
Ile watch to Night ; perchance ' twill wake againe
Hor .
I warrant you it will
Ham .
If it assume my noble Fathers person , Ile speake to it , though Hell it selfe should gape And bid me hold my peace .
I pray you all , If you haue hitherto conceald this sight ; Let it bee treble in your silence still : And whatsoeuer els shall hap to night , Giue it an vnderstanding but no tongue ; I will requite your loues ; so fare ye well : Vpon the Platforme twixt eleuen and twelue , Ile visit you
All .
Our duty to your Honour .
Exeunt
Ham .
Your loue , as mine to you : farewell .
My Fathers Spirit in Armes ?
All is not well : I doubt some foule play : would the Night were come ; Till then sit still my soule ; foule deeds will rise , Though all the earth orewhelm them to mens eies .
Enter .
Scena Tertia
Enter Laertes and Ophelia .
Laer .
My necessaries are imbark ' t ; Farewell : And Sister , as the Winds giue Benefit , And Conuoy is assistant ; doe not sleepe , But let me heare from you
Ophel .
Doe you doubt that ?
Laer .
For Hamlet , and the trifling of his fauours , Hold it a fashion and a toy in Bloude ; A Violet in the youth of Primy Nature ; Froward , not permanent ; sweet not lasting The suppliance of a minute ?
No more
Ophel .
No more but so
Laer .
Thinke it no more : For nature cressant does not grow alone , In thewes and Bulke : but as his Temple waxes , The inward seruice of the Minde and Soule Growes wide withall .
Perhaps he loues you now , And now no soyle nor cautell doth besmerch The vertue of his feare : but you must feare His greatnesse weigh ' d , his will is not his owne ; For hee himselfe is subiect to his Birth : Hee may not , as vnuallued persons doe , Carue for himselfe ; for , on his choyce depends The sanctity and health of the whole State .
And therefore must his choyce be circumscrib ' d Vnto the voyce and yeelding of that Body , Whereof he is the Head .
Then if he sayes he loues you , It fits your wisedome so farre to beleeue it ; As he in his peculiar Sect and force May giue his saying deed : which is no further , Then the maine voyce of Denmarke goes withall .
Then weight what losse your Honour may sustaine , If with too credent eare you list his Songs ; Or lose your Heart ; or your chast Treasure open To his vnmastred importunity .
Feare it Ophelia , feare it my deare Sister , And keepe within the reare of your Affection ; Out of the shot and danger of Desire .
The chariest Maid is Prodigall enough , If she vnmaske her beauty to the Moone : Vertue it selfe scapes not calumnious stroakes , The Canker Galls , the Infants of the Spring Too oft before the buttons be disclos ' d , And in the Morne and liquid dew of Youth , Contagious blastments are most imminent .
Be wary then , best safety lies in feare ; Youth to it selfe rebels , though none else neere
Ophe .
I shall th ' effect of this good Lesson keepe , As watchmen to my heart : but good my Brother Doe not as some vngracious Pastors doe , Shew me the steepe and thorny way to Heauen ; Whilst like a puft and recklesse Libertine Himselfe , the Primrose path of dalliance treads , And reaks not his owne reade
Laer .
Oh , feare me not .
Enter Polonius .
I stay too long ; but here my Father comes : A double blessing is a double grace ; Occasion smiles vpon a second leaue
Polon .
Yet heere Laertes ?
Aboord , aboord for shame , The winde sits in the shoulder of your saile , And you are staid for there : my blessing with you ; And these few Precepts in thy memory , See thou Character .
Giue thy thoughts no tongue , Nor any vnproportion ' d thoughts his Act : Be thou familiar ; but by no meanes vulgar : The friends thou hast , and their adoption tride , Grapple them to thy Soule , with hoopes of Steele : But doe not dull thy palme , with entertainment Of each vnhatch ' t , vnfledg ' d Comrade .
Beware Of entrance to a quarrell : but being in Bear ' t that th ' opposed may beware of thee .
Giue euery man thine eare ; but few thy voyce : Take each mans censure ; but reserue thy iudgement : Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy ; But not exprest in fancie ; rich , not gawdie : For the Apparell oft proclaimes the man .
And they in France of the best ranck and station , Are of a most select and generous cheff in that .
Neither a borrower , nor a lender be ; For lone oft loses both it selfe and friend : And borrowing duls the edge of Husbandry .
This aboue all ; to thine owne selfe be true : And it must follow , as the Night the Day , Thou canst not then be false to any man .
Farewell : my Blessing season this in thee
Laer .
Most humbly doe I take my leaue , my Lord
Polon .
The time inuites you , goe , your seruants tend
Laer .
Farewell Ophelia , and remember well What I haue said to you
Ophe .
Tis in my memory lockt , And you your selfe shall keepe the key of it
Laer .
Farewell .
Exit Laer .
Polon .
What ist Ophelia he hath said to you ?
Ophe .
So please you , somthing touching the L [ ord ].
Hamlet
Polon .
Marry , well bethought : Tis told me he hath very oft of late Giuen priuate time to you ; and you your selfe Haue of your audience beene most free and bounteous .
If it be so , as so tis put on me ; And that in way of caution : I must tell you , You doe not vnderstand your selfe so cleerely , As it behoues my Daughter , and your Honour .
What is betweene you , giue me vp the truth ?
Ophe .
He hath my Lord of late , made many tenders Of his affection to me
Polon .
Affection , puh .
You speake like a greene Girle , Vnsifted in such perillous Circumstance .
Doe you beleeue his tenders , as you call them ?
Ophe .
I do not know , my Lord , what I should thinke
Polon .
Marry Ile teach you ; thinke your selfe a Baby , That you haue tane his tenders for true pay , Which are not starling .
Tender your selfe more dearly ; Or not to crack the winde of the poore Phrase , Roaming it thus , you ' l tender me a foole
Ophe .
My Lord , he hath importun ' d me with loue , In honourable fashion
Polon .
I , fashion you may call it , go too , go too
Ophe .
And hath giuen countenance to his speech , My Lord , with all the vowes of Heauen
Polon .
I , Springes to catch Woodcocks .
I doe know When the Bloud burnes , how Prodigall the Soule Giues the tongue vowes : these blazes , Daughter , Giuing more light then heate ; extinct in both , Euen in their promise , as it is a making ; You must not take for fire .
For this time Daughter , Be somewhat scanter of your Maiden presence ; Set your entreatments at a higher rate , Then a command to parley .
For Lord Hamlet , Beleeue so much in him , that he is young , And with a larger tether may he walke , Then may be giuen you .
In few , Ophelia , Doe not beleeue his vowes ; for they are Broakers , Not of the eye , which their Inuestments show : But meere implorators of vnholy Sutes , Breathing like sanctified and pious bonds , The better to beguile .
This is for all : I would not , in plaine tearmes , from this time forth , Haue you so slander any moment leisure , As to giue words or talke with the Lord Hamlet : Looke too ' t , I charge you ; come your wayes
Ophe .
I shall obey my Lord .
Exeunt .
Enter Hamlet , Horatio , Marcellus .
Ham .
The Ayre bites shrewdly : is it very cold ?
Hor .
It is a nipping and an eager ayre
Ham .
What hower now ?
Hor .
I thinke it lacks of twelue
Mar .
No , it is strooke
Hor .
Indeed I heard it not : then it drawes neere the season , Wherein the Spirit held his wont to walke .
What does this meane my Lord ?
Ham .
The King doth wake to night , and takes his rouse , Keepes wassels and the swaggering vpspring reeles , And as he dreines his draughts of Renish downe , The kettle Drum and Trumpet thus bray out The triumph of his Pledge
Horat .
Is it a custome ?
Ham .
I marry ist ; And to my mind , though I am natiue heere , And to the manner borne : It is a Custome More honour ' d in the breach , then the obseruance .
Enter Ghost .
Hor .
Looke my Lord , it comes
Ham .
Angels and Ministers of Grace defend vs : Be thou a Spirit of health , or Goblin damn ' d , Bring with thee ayres from Heauen , or blasts from Hell , Be thy euents wicked or charitable , Thou com ' st in such a questionable shape That I will speake to thee .
Ile call thee Hamlet , King , Father , Royall Dane : Oh , oh , answer me , Let me not burst in Ignorance ; but tell Why thy Canoniz ' d bones Hearsed in death , Haue burst their cerments , why the Sepulcher Wherein we saw thee quietly enurn ' d , Hath op ' d his ponderous and Marble iawes , To cast thee vp againe ?
What may this meane ?
That thou dead Coarse againe in compleat steele , Reuisits thus the glimpses of the Moone , Making Night hidious ?
And we fooles of Nature , So horridly to shake our disposition , With thoughts beyond thee ; reaches of our Soules , Say , why is this ?
wherefore ?
what should we doe ?
Ghost beckens Hamlet .
Hor .
It beckons you to goe away with it , As if it some impartment did desire To you alone
Mar .
Looke with what courteous action It wafts you to a more remoued ground : But doe not goe with it
Hor .
No , by no meanes
Ham .
It will not speake : then will I follow it
Hor .
Doe not my Lord
Ham .
Why , what should be the feare ?
I doe not set my life at a pins fee ; And for my Soule , what can it doe to that ?
Being a thing immortall as it selfe : It waues me forth againe ; Ile follow it
Hor .
What if it tempt you toward the Floud my Lord ?
Or to the dreadfull Sonnet of the Cliffe , That beetles o ' re his base into the Sea , And there assumes some other horrible forme , Which might depriue your Soueraignty of Reason , And draw you into madnesse thinke of it ?
Ham .
It wafts me still : goe on , Ile follow thee
Mar .
You shall not goe my Lord
Ham .
Hold off your hand
Hor .
Be rul ' d , you shall not goe
Ham .
My fate cries out , And makes each petty Artire in this body , As hardy as the Nemian Lions nerue : Still am I cal ' d ?
Vnhand me Gentlemen : By Heau ' n , Ile make a Ghost of him that lets me : I say away , goe on , Ile follow thee .
Exeunt .
Ghost & Hamlet .
Hor .
He waxes desperate with imagination
Mar .
Let ' s follow ; ' tis not fit thus to obey him
Hor .
Haue after , to what issue will this come ?
Mar .
Something is rotten in the State of Denmarke
Hor .
Heauen will direct it
Mar .
Nay , let ' s follow him .
Exeunt .
Enter Ghost and Hamlet .
Ham .
Where wilt thou lead me ?
speak ; Ile go no further
Gho .
Marke me
Ham .
I will
Gho .
My hower is almost come , When I to sulphurous and tormenting Flames Must render vp my selfe
Ham .
Alas poore Ghost
Gho .
Pitty me not , but lend thy serious hearing To what I shall vnfold
Ham .
Speake , I am bound to heare
Gho .
So art thou to reuenge , when thou shalt heare
Ham .
What ?
Gho .
I am thy Fathers Spirit , Doom ' d for a certaine terme to walke the night ; And for the day confin ' d to fast in Fiers , Till the foule crimes done in my dayes of Nature Are burnt and purg ' d away ?
But that I am forbid To tell the secrets of my Prison - House ; I could a Tale vnfold , whose lightest word Would harrow vp thy soule , freeze thy young blood , Make thy two eyes like Starres , start from their Spheres , Thy knotty and combined lockes to part , And each particular haire to stand an end , Like Quilles vpon the fretfull Porpentine : But this eternall blason must not be To eares of flesh and bloud ; list Hamlet , oh list , If thou didst euer thy deare Father loue
Ham .
Oh Heauen !
Gho .
Reuenge his foule and most vnnaturall Murther
Ham .
Murther ?
Ghost .
Murther most foule , as in the best it is ; But this most foule , strange , and vnnaturall
Ham .
Hast , hast me to know it , That with wings as swift As meditation , or the thoughts of Loue , May sweepe to my Reuenge
Ghost .
I finde thee apt , And duller should ' st thou be then the fat weede That rots it selfe in ease , on Lethe Wharfe , Would ' st thou not stirre in this .
Now Hamlet heare : It ' s giuen out , that sleeping in mine Orchard , A Serpent stung me : so the whole eare of Denmarke , Is by a forged processe of my death Rankly abus ' d : But know thou Noble youth , The Serpent that did sting thy Fathers life , Now weares his Crowne
Ham .
O my Propheticke soule : mine Vncle ?
Ghost .
I that incestuous , that adulterate Beast With witchcraft of his wits , hath Traitorous guifts .
Oh wicked Wit , and Gifts , that haue the power So to seduce ?
Won to this shamefull Lust The will of my most seeming vertuous Queene : Oh Hamlet , what a falling off was there , From me , whose loue was of that dignity , That it went hand in hand , euen with the Vow I made to her in Marriage ; and to decline Vpon a wretch , whose Naturall gifts were poore To those of mine .
But Vertue , as it neuer wil be moued , Though Lewdnesse court it in a shape of Heauen : So Lust , though to a radiant Angell link ' d , Will sate it selfe in a Celestiall bed , & prey on Garbage .
But soft , me thinkes I sent the Mornings Ayre ; Briefe let me be : Sleeping within mine Orchard , My custome alwayes in the afternoone ; Vpon my secure hower thy Vncle stole With iuyce of cursed Hebenon in a Violl , And in the Porches of mine eares did poure The leaperous Distilment ; whose effect Holds such an enmity with bloud of Man , That swift as Quick - siluer , it courses through The naturall Gates and Allies of the body ; And with a sodaine vigour it doth posset And curd , like Aygre droppings into Milke , The thin and wholsome blood : so did it mine ; And a most instant Tetter bak ' d about , Most Lazar - like , with vile and loathsome crust , All my smooth Body .
Thus was I , sleeping , by a Brothers hand , Of Life , of Crowne , and Queene at once dispatcht ; Cut off euen in the Blossomes of my Sinne , Vnhouzzled , disappointed , vnnaneld , No reckoning made , but sent to my account With all my imperfections on my head ; Oh horrible Oh horrible , most horrible : If thou hast nature in thee beare it not ; Let not the Royall Bed of Denmarke be A Couch for Luxury and damned Incest .
But howsoeuer thou pursuest this Act , Taint not thy mind ; nor let thy Soule contriue Against thy Mother ought ; leaue her to heauen , And to those Thornes that in her bosome lodge , To pricke and sting her .
Fare thee well at once ; The Glow - worme showes the Matine to be neere , And gins to pale his vneffectuall Fire : Adue , adue , Hamlet : remember me .
Enter .
Ham .
Oh all you host of Heauen !
Oh Earth ; what els ?
And shall I couple Hell ?
Oh fie : hold my heart ; And you my sinnewes , grow not instant Old ; But beare me stiffely vp : Remember thee ?
I , thou poore Ghost , while memory holds a seate In this distracted Globe : Remember thee ?
Yea , from the Table of my Memory , Ile wipe away all triuiall fond Records , All sawes of Bookes , all formes , all presures past , That youth and obseruation coppied there ; And thy Commandment all alone shall liue Within the Booke and Volume of my Braine , Vnmixt with baser matter ; yes yes , by Heauen : Oh most pernicious woman !
Oh Villaine , Villaine , smiling damned Villaine !
My Tables , my Tables ; meet it is I set it downe , That one may smile , and smile and be a Villaine ; At least I ' m sure it may be so in Denmarke ; So Vnckle there you are : now to my word ; It is ; Adue , Adue , Remember me : I haue sworn ' t
Hor .
& Mar .
within .
My Lord , my Lord .
Enter Horatio and Marcellus .
Mar .
Lord Hamlet
Hor .
Heauen secure him
Mar .
So be it
Hor .
Illo , ho , ho , my Lord
Ham .
Hillo , ho , ho , boy ; come bird , come
Mar .
How ist my Noble Lord ?
Hor .
What newes , my Lord ?
Ham .
Oh wonderfull !
Hor .
Good my Lord tell it
Ham .
No you ' l reueale it
Hor .
Not I , my Lord , by Heauen
Mar .
Nor I , my Lord
Ham .
How say you then , would heart of man once think it ?
But you ' l be secret ?
Both .
I , by Heau ' n , my Lord
Ham .
There ' s nere a villaine dwelling in all Denmarke But hee ' s an arrant knaue
Hor .
There needs no Ghost my Lord , come from the Graue , to tell vs this
Ham .
Why right , you are i ' th ' right ; And so , without more circumstance at all , I hold it fit that we shake hands , and part : You , as your busines and desires shall point you : For euery man ha ' s businesse and desire , Such as it is : and for mine owne poore part , Looke you , Ile goe pray
Hor .
These are but wild and hurling words , my Lord
Ham .
I ' m sorry they offend you heartily : Yes faith , heartily
Hor .
There ' s no offence my Lord
Ham .
Yes , by Saint Patricke , but there is my Lord , And much offence too , touching this Vision heere : It is an honest Ghost , that let me tell you : For your desire to know what is betweene vs , O ' remaster ' t as you may .
And now good friends , As you are Friends , Schollers and Soldiers , Giue me one poore request
Hor .
What is ' t my Lord ?
we will
Ham .
Neuer make known what you haue seen to night
Both .
My Lord , we will not
Ham .
Nay , but swear ' t
Hor .
Infaith my Lord , not I
Mar .
Nor I my Lord : in faith
Ham .
Vpon my sword
Marcell .
We haue sworne my Lord already
Ham .
Indeed , vpon my sword , Indeed
Gho .
Sweare .
Ghost cries vnder the Stage .
Ham .
Ah ha boy , sayest thou so .
Art thou there truepenny ?
Come one you here this fellow in the selleredge Consent to sweare
Hor .
Propose the Oath my Lord
Ham .
Neuer to speake of this that you haue seene .
Sweare by my sword
Gho .
Sweare
Ham .
Hic & vbique ?
Then wee ' l shift for grownd , Come hither Gentlemen , And lay your hands againe vpon my sword , Neuer to speake of this that you haue heard : Sweare by my Sword
Gho .
Sweare
Ham .
Well said old Mole , can ' st worke i ' th ' ground so fast ?
A worthy Pioner , once more remoue good friends
Hor .
Oh day and night : but this is wondrous strange
Ham .
And therefore as a stranger giue it welcome .
There are more things in Heauen and Earth , Horatio , Then are dream ' t of in our Philosophy .
But come , Here as before , neuer so helpe you mercy , How strange or odde so ere I beare my selfe ; ( As I perchance heereafter shall thinke meet To put an Anticke disposition on :) That you at such time seeing me , neuer shall With Armes encombred thus , or thus , head shake ; Or by pronouncing of some doubtfull Phrase ; As well , we know , or we could and if we would , Or if we list to speake ; or there be and if there might , Or such ambiguous giuing out to note , That you know ought of me ; this not to doe : So grace and mercy at your most neede helpe you : Sweare
Ghost .
Sweare
Ham .
Rest , rest perturbed Spirit : so Gentlemen , With all my loue I doe commend me to you ; And what so poore a man as Hamlet is , May doe t ' expresse his loue and friending to you , God willing shall not lacke : let vs goe in together , And still your fingers on your lippes I pray , The time is out of ioynt : Oh cursed spight , That euer I was borne to set it right .
Nay , come let ' s goe together .
Exeunt .
Actus Secundus .
Enter Polonius , and Reynoldo .
Polon .
Giue him his money , and these notes Reynoldo
Reynol .
I will my Lord
Polon .
You shall doe maruels wisely : good Reynoldo , Before you visite him you make inquiry Of his behauiour
Reynol .
My Lord , I did intend it
Polon .
Marry , well said ; Very well said .
Looke you Sir , Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris ; And how , and who ; what meanes ; and where they keepe : What company , at what expence : and finding By this encompassement and drift of question , That they doe know my sonne : Come you more neerer Then your particular demands will touch it , Take you as ' twere some distant knowledge of him , And thus I know his father and his friends , And in part him .
Doe you marke this Reynoldo ?
Reynol .
I , very well my Lord
Polon .
And in part him , but you may say not well ; But if ' t be hee I meane , hees very wilde ; Addicted so and so ; and there put on him What forgeries you please ; marry , none so ranke , As may dishonour him ; take heed of that : But Sir , such wanton , wild , and vsuall slips , As are Companions noted and most knowne To youth and liberty
Reynol .
As gaming my Lord
Polon .
I , or drinking , fencing , swearing , Quarelling , drabbing .
You may goe so farre
Reynol .
My Lord that would dishonour him
Polon .
Faith no , as you may season it in the charge ; You must not put another scandall on him , That hee is open to Incontinencie ; That ' s not my meaning : but breath his faults so quaintly , That they may seeme the taints of liberty ; The flash and out - breake of a fiery minde , A sauagenes in vnreclaim ' d bloud of generall assault
Reynol .
But my good Lord
Polon .
Wherefore should you doe this ?
Reynol .
I my Lord , I would know that
Polon .
Marry Sir , heere ' s my drift , And I belieue it is a fetch of warrant : You laying these slight sulleyes on my Sonne , As ' twere a thing a little soil ' d i ' th ' working : Marke you your party in conuerse ; him you would sound , Hauing euer seene .
In the prenominate crimes , The youth you breath of guilty , be assur ' d He closes with you in this consequence : Good sir , or so , or friend , or Gentleman .
