4 : 16 Am I therefore become your enemy , because I tell you the truth ?
4 : 17 They zealously affect you , but not well ; yea , they would exclude you , that ye might affect them .
4 : 18 But it is good to be zealously affected always in a good thing , and not only when I am present with you .
4 : 19 My little children , of whom I travail in birth again until Christ be formed in you , 4 : 20 I desire to be present with you now , and to change my voice ; for I stand in doubt of you .
4 : 21 Tell me , ye that desire to be under the law , do ye not hear the law ?
4 : 22 For it is written , that Abraham had two sons , the one by a bondmaid , the other by a freewoman .
4 : 23 But he who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh ; but he of the freewoman was by promise .
4 : 24 Which things are an allegory : for these are the two covenants ; the one from the mount Sinai , which gendereth to bondage , which is Agar .
4 : 25 For this Agar is mount Sinai in Arabia , and answereth to Jerusalem which now is , and is in bondage with her children .
4 : 26 But Jerusalem which is above is free , which is the mother of us all .
4 : 27 For it is written , Rejoice , thou barren that bearest not ; break forth and cry , thou that travailest not : for the desolate hath many more children than she which hath an husband .
4 : 28 Now we , brethren , as Isaac was , are the children of promise .
4 : 29 But as then he that was born after the flesh persecuted him that was born after the Spirit , even so it is now .
4 : 30 Nevertheless what saith the scripture ?
Cast out the bondwoman and her son : for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with the son of the freewoman .
4 : 31 So then , brethren , we are not children of the bondwoman , but of the free .
5 : 1 Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free , and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage .
5 : 2 Behold , I Paul say unto you , that if ye be circumcised , Christ shall profit you nothing .
5 : 3 For I testify again to every man that is circumcised , that he is a debtor to do the whole law .
5 : 4 Christ is become of no effect unto you , whosoever of you are justified by the law ; ye are fallen from grace .
5 : 5 For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith .
5 : 6 For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth any thing , nor uncircumcision ; but faith which worketh by love .
5 : 7 Ye did run well ; who did hinder you that ye should not obey the truth ?
5 : 8 This persuasion cometh not of him that calleth you .
5 : 9 A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump .
5 : 10 I have confidence in you through the Lord , that ye will be none otherwise minded : but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment , whosoever he be .
5 : 11 And I , brethren , if I yet preach circumcision , why do I yet suffer persecution ?
then is the offence of the cross ceased .
5 : 12 I would they were even cut off which trouble you .
5 : 13 For , brethren , ye have been called unto liberty ; only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh , but by love serve one another .
5 : 14 For all the law is fulfilled in one word , even in this ; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself .
5 : 15 But if ye bite and devour one another , take heed that ye be not consumed one of another .
5 : 16 This I say then , Walk in the Spirit , and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh .
5 : 17 For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit , and the Spirit against the flesh : and these are contrary the one to the other : so that ye cannot do the things that ye would .
5 : 18 But if ye be led of the Spirit , ye are not under the law .
5 : 19 Now the works of the flesh are manifest , which are these ; Adultery , fornication , uncleanness , lasciviousness , 5 : 20 Idolatry , witchcraft , hatred , variance , emulations , wrath , strife , seditions , heresies , 5 : 21 Envyings , murders , drunkenness , revellings , and such like : of the which I tell you before , as I have also told you in time past , that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God .
5 : 22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love , joy , peace , longsuffering , gentleness , goodness , faith , 5 : 23 Meekness , temperance : against such there is no law .
5 : 24 And they that are Christ ' s have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts .
5 : 25 If we live in the Spirit , let us also walk in the Spirit .
5 : 26 Let us not be desirous of vain glory , provoking one another , envying one another .
6 : 1 Brethren , if a man be overtaken in a fault , ye which are spiritual , restore such an one in the spirit of meekness ; considering thyself , lest thou also be tempted .
6 : 2 Bear ye one another ' s burdens , and so fulfil the law of Christ .
6 : 3 For if a man think himself to be something , when he is nothing , he deceiveth himself .
6 : 4 But let every man prove his own work , and then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone , and not in another .
6 : 5 For every man shall bear his own burden .
6 : 6 Let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things .
6 : 7 Be not deceived ; God is not mocked : for whatsoever a man soweth , that shall he also reap .
6 : 8 For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption ; but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting .
6 : 9 And let us not be weary in well doing : for in due season we shall reap , if we faint not .
6 : 10 As we have therefore opportunity , let us do good unto all men , especially unto them who are of the household of faith .
6 : 11 Ye see how large a letter I have written unto you with mine own hand .
6 : 12 As many as desire to make a fair shew in the flesh , they constrain you to be circumcised ; only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ .
6 : 13 For neither they themselves who are circumcised keep the law ; but desire to have you circumcised , that they may glory in your flesh .
6 : 14 But God forbid that I should glory , save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ , by whom the world is crucified unto me , and I unto the world .
6 : 15 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth any thing , nor uncircumcision , but a new creature .
6 : 16 And as many as walk according to this rule , peace be on them , and mercy , and upon the Israel of God .
6 : 17 From henceforth let no man trouble me : for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus .
6 : 18 Brethren , the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit .
Amen .
The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Ephesians
1 : 1 Paul , an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God , to the saints which are at Ephesus , and to the faithful in Christ Jesus : 1 : 2 Grace be to you , and peace , from God our Father , and from the Lord Jesus Christ .
1 : 3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ , who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ : 1 : 4 According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world , that we should be holy and without blame before him in love : 1 : 5 Having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself , according to the good pleasure of his will , 1 : 6 To the praise of the glory of his grace , wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved .
1 : 7 In whom we have redemption through his blood , the forgiveness of sins , according to the riches of his grace ; 1 : 8 Wherein he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence ; 1 : 9 Having made known unto us the mystery of his will , according to his good pleasure which he hath purposed in himself : 1 : 10 That in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ , both which are in heaven , and which are on earth ; even in him : 1 : 11 In whom also we have obtained an inheritance , being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will : 1 : 12 That we should be to the praise of his glory , who first trusted in Christ .
1 : 13 In whom ye also trusted , after that ye heard the word of truth , the gospel of your salvation : in whom also after that ye believed , ye were sealed with that holy Spirit of promise , 1 : 14 Which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession , unto the praise of his glory .
1 : 15 Wherefore I also , after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus , and love unto all the saints , 1 : 16 Cease not to give thanks for you , making mention of you in my prayers ; 1 : 17 That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ , the Father of glory , may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him : 1 : 18 The eyes of your understanding being enlightened ; that ye may know what is the hope of his calling , and what the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints , 1 : 19 And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us - ward who believe , according to the working of his mighty power , 1 : 20 Which he wrought in Christ , when he raised him from the dead , and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places , 1 : 21 Far above all principality , and power , and might , and dominion , and every name that is named , not only in this world , but also in that which is to come : 1 : 22 And hath put all things under his feet , and gave him to be the head over all things to the church , 1 : 23 Which is his body , the fulness of him that filleth all in all .
2 : 1 And you hath he quickened , who were dead in trespasses and sins ; 2 : 2 Wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world , according to the prince of the power of the air , the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience : 2 : 3 Among whom also we all had our conversation in times past in the lusts of our flesh , fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind ; and were by nature the children of wrath , even as others .
2 : 4 But God , who is rich in mercy , for his great love wherewith he loved us , 2 : 5 Even when we were dead in sins , hath quickened us together with Christ , ( by grace ye are saved ;) 2 : 6 And hath raised us up together , and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus : 2 : 7 That in the ages to come he might shew the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus .
2 : 8 For by grace are ye saved through faith ; and that not of yourselves : it is the gift of God : 2 : 9 Not of works , lest any man should boast .
2 : 10 For we are his workmanship , created in Christ Jesus unto good works , which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them .
2 : 11 Wherefore remember , that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh , who are called Uncircumcision by that which is called the Circumcision in the flesh made by hands ; 2 : 12 That at that time ye were without Christ , being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel , and strangers from the covenants of promise , having no hope , and without God in the world : 2 : 13 But now in Christ Jesus ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ .
2 : 14 For he is our peace , who hath made both one , and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us ; 2 : 15 Having abolished in his flesh the enmity , even the law of commandments contained in ordinances ; for to make in himself of twain one new man , so making peace ; 2 : 16 And that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross , having slain the enmity thereby : 2 : 17 And came and preached peace to you which were afar off , and to them that were nigh .
2 : 18 For through him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father .
2 : 19 Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners , but fellowcitizens with the saints , and of the household of God ; 2 : 20 And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets , Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone ; 2 : 21 In whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord : 2 : 22 In whom ye also are builded together for an habitation of God through the Spirit .
3 : 1 For this cause I Paul , the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you Gentiles , 3 : 2 If ye have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which is given me to you - ward : 3 : 3 How that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery ; ( as I wrote afore in few words , 3 : 4 Whereby , when ye read , ye may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ ) 3 : 5 Which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men , as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit ; 3 : 6 That the Gentiles should be fellowheirs , and of the same body , and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel : 3 : 7 Whereof I was made a minister , according to the gift of the grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of his power .
3 : 8 Unto me , who am less than the least of all saints , is this grace given , that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ ; 3 : 9 And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery , which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God , who created all things by Jesus Christ : 3 : 10 To the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God , 3 : 11 According to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord : 3 : 12 In whom we have boldness and access with confidence by the faith of him .
3 : 13 Wherefore I desire that ye faint not at my tribulations for you , which is your glory .
3 : 14 For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ , 3 : 15 Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named , 3 : 16 That he would grant you , according to the riches of his glory , to be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man ; 3 : 17 That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith ; that ye , being rooted and grounded in love , 3 : 18 May be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth , and length , and depth , and height ; 3 : 19 And to know the love of Christ , which passeth knowledge , that ye might be filled with all the fulness of God .
3 : 20 Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think , according to the power that worketh in us , 3 : 21 Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages , world without end .
Amen .
4 : 1 I therefore , the prisoner of the Lord , beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called , 4 : 2 With all lowliness and meekness , with longsuffering , forbearing one another in love ; 4 : 3 Endeavouring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace .
4 : 4 There is one body , and one Spirit , even as ye are called in one hope of your calling ; 4 : 5 One Lord , one faith , one baptism , 4 : 6 One God and Father of all , who is above all , and through all , and in you all .
4 : 7 But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ .
4 : 8 Wherefore he saith , When he ascended up on high , he led captivity captive , and gave gifts unto men .
4 : 9 ( Now that he ascended , what is it but that he also descended first into the lower parts of the earth ?
4 : 10 He that descended is the same also that ascended up far above all heavens , that he might fill all things .)
4 : 11 And he gave some , apostles ; and some , prophets ; and some , evangelists ; and some , pastors and teachers ; 4 : 12 For the perfecting of the saints , for the work of the ministry , for the edifying of the body of Christ : 4 : 13 Till we all come in the unity of the faith , and of the knowledge of the Son of God , unto a perfect man , unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ : 4 : 14 That we henceforth be no more children , tossed to and fro , and carried about with every wind of doctrine , by the sleight of men , and cunning craftiness , whereby they lie in wait to deceive ; 4 : 15 But speaking the truth in love , may grow up into him in all things , which is the head , even Christ : 4 : 16 From whom the whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplieth , according to the effectual working in the measure of every part , maketh increase of the body unto the edifying of itself in love .
4 : 17 This I say therefore , and testify in the Lord , that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk , in the vanity of their mind , 4 : 18 Having the understanding darkened , being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them , because of the blindness of their heart : 4 : 19 Who being past feeling have given themselves over unto lasciviousness , to work all uncleanness with greediness .
4 : 20 But ye have not so learned Christ ; 4 : 21 If so be that ye have heard him , and have been taught by him , as the truth is in Jesus : 4 : 22 That ye put off concerning the former conversation the old man , which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts ; 4 : 23 And be renewed in the spirit of your mind ; 4 : 24 And that ye put on the new man , which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness .
4 : 25 Wherefore putting away lying , speak every man truth with his neighbour : for we are members one of another .
4 : 26 Be ye angry , and sin not : let not the sun go down upon your wrath : 4 : 27 Neither give place to the devil .
4 : 28 Let him that stole steal no more : but rather let him labour , working with his hands the thing which is good , that he may have to give to him that needeth .
4 : 29 Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth , but that which is good to the use of edifying , that it may minister grace unto the hearers .
4 : 30 And grieve not the holy Spirit of God , whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption .
4 : 31 Let all bitterness , and wrath , and anger , and clamour , and evil speaking , be put away from you , with all malice : 4 : 32 And be ye kind one to another , tenderhearted , forgiving one another , even as God for Christ ' s sake hath forgiven you .
5 : 1 Be ye therefore followers of God , as dear children ; 5 : 2 And walk in love , as Christ also hath loved us , and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweetsmelling savour .
5 : 3 But fornication , and all uncleanness , or covetousness , let it not be once named among you , as becometh saints ; 5 : 4 Neither filthiness , nor foolish talking , nor jesting , which are not convenient : but rather giving of thanks .
5 : 5 For this ye know , that no whoremonger , nor unclean person , nor covetous man , who is an idolater , hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God .
5 : 6 Let no man deceive you with vain words : for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience .
5 : 7 Be not ye therefore partakers with them .
5 : 8 For ye were sometimes darkness , but now are ye light in the Lord : walk as children of light : 5 : 9 ( For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth ;) 5 : 10 Proving what is acceptable unto the Lord .
5 : 11 And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness , but rather reprove them .
5 : 12 For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret .
5 : 13 But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light : for whatsoever doth make manifest is light .
5 : 14 Wherefore he saith , Awake thou that sleepest , and arise from the dead , and Christ shall give thee light .
5 : 15 See then that ye walk circumspectly , not as fools , but as wise , 5 : 16 Redeeming the time , because the days are evil .
5 : 17 Wherefore be ye not unwise , but understanding what the will of the Lord is .
5 : 18 And be not drunk with wine , wherein is excess ; but be filled with the Spirit ; 5 : 19 Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs , singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord ; 5 : 20 Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ ; 5 : 21 Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God .
5 : 22 Wives , submit yourselves unto your own husbands , as unto the Lord .
5 : 23 For the husband is the head of the wife , even as Christ is the head of the church : and he is the saviour of the body .
5 : 24 Therefore as the church is subject unto Christ , so let the wives be to their own husbands in every thing .
5 : 25 Husbands , love your wives , even as Christ also loved the church , and gave himself for it ; 5 : 26 That he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word , 5 : 27 That he might present it to himself a glorious church , not having spot , or wrinkle , or any such thing ; but that it should be holy and without blemish .
5 : 28 So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies .
He that loveth his wife loveth himself .
5 : 29 For no man ever yet hated his own flesh ; but nourisheth and cherisheth it , even as the Lord the church : 5 : 30 For we are members of his body , of his flesh , and of his bones .
5 : 31 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother , and shall be joined unto his wife , and they two shall be one flesh .
5 : 32 This is a great mystery : but I speak concerning Christ and the church .
5 : 33 Nevertheless let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as himself ; and the wife see that she reverence her husband .
6 : 1 Children , obey your parents in the Lord : for this is right .
6 : 2 Honour thy father and mother ; which is the first commandment with promise ; 6 : 3 That it may be well with thee , and thou mayest live long on the earth .
6 : 4 And , ye fathers , provoke not your children to wrath : but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord .
6 : 5 Servants , be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh , with fear and trembling , in singleness of your heart , as unto Christ ; 6 : 6 Not with eyeservice , as menpleasers ; but as the servants of Christ , doing the will of God from the heart ; 6 : 7 With good will doing service , as to the Lord , and not to men : 6 : 8 Knowing that whatsoever good thing any man doeth , the same shall he receive of the Lord , whether he be bond or free .
6 : 9 And , ye masters , do the same things unto them , forbearing threatening : knowing that your Master also is in heaven ; neither is there respect of persons with him .
6 : 10 Finally , my brethren , be strong in the Lord , and in the power of his might .
6 : 11 Put on the whole armour of God , that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil .
6 : 12 For we wrestle not against flesh and blood , but against principalities , against powers , against the rulers of the darkness of this world , against spiritual wickedness in high places .
6 : 13 Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God , that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day , and having done all , to stand .
6 : 14 Stand therefore , having your loins girt about with truth , and having on the breastplate of righteousness ; 6 : 15 And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace ; 6 : 16 Above all , taking the shield of faith , wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked .
6 : 17 And take the helmet of salvation , and the sword of the Spirit , which is the word of God : 6 : 18 Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit , and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints ; 6 : 19 And for me , that utterance may be given unto me , that I may open my mouth boldly , to make known the mystery of the gospel , 6 : 20 For which I am an ambassador in bonds : that therein I may speak boldly , as I ought to speak .
6 : 21 But that ye also may know my affairs , and how I do , Tychicus , a beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord , shall make known to you all things : 6 : 22 Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose , that ye might know our affairs , and that he might comfort your hearts .
6 : 23 Peace be to the brethren , and love with faith , from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ .
6 : 24 Grace be with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity .
Amen .
The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Philippians
1 : 1 Paul and Timotheus , the servants of Jesus Christ , to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi , with the bishops and deacons : 1 : 2 Grace be unto you , and peace , from God our Father , and from the Lord Jesus Christ .
1 : 3 I thank my God upon every remembrance of you , 1 : 4 Always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy , 1 : 5 For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now ; 1 : 6 Being confident of this very thing , that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ : 1 : 7 Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all , because I have you in my heart ; inasmuch as both in my bonds , and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel , ye all are partakers of my grace .
1 : 8 For God is my record , how greatly I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ .
1 : 9 And this I pray , that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment ; 1 : 10 That ye may approve things that are excellent ; that ye may be sincere and without offence till the day of Christ .
1 : 11 Being filled with the fruits of righteousness , which are by Jesus Christ , unto the glory and praise of God .
1 : 12 But I would ye should understand , brethren , that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel ; 1 : 13 So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace , and in all other places ; 1 : 14 And many of the brethren in the Lord , waxing confident by my bonds , are much more bold to speak the word without fear .
1 : 15 Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife ; and some also of good will : 1 : 16 The one preach Christ of contention , not sincerely , supposing to add affliction to my bonds : 1 : 17 But the other of love , knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel .
1 : 18 What then ?
notwithstanding , every way , whether in pretence , or in truth , Christ is preached ; and I therein do rejoice , yea , and will rejoice .
1 : 19 For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer , and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ , 1 : 20 According to my earnest expectation and my hope , that in nothing I shall be ashamed , but that with all boldness , as always , so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body , whether it be by life , or by death .
1 : 21 For to me to live is Christ , and to die is gain .
1 : 22 But if I live in the flesh , this is the fruit of my labour : yet what I shall choose I wot not .
1 : 23 For I am in a strait betwixt two , having a desire to depart , and to be with Christ ; which is far better : 1 : 24 Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you .
1 : 25 And having this confidence , I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith ; 1 : 26 That your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again .
1 : 27 Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ : that whether I come and see you , or else be absent , I may hear of your affairs , that ye stand fast in one spirit , with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel ; 1 : 28 And in nothing terrified by your adversaries : which is to them an evident token of perdition , but to you of salvation , and that of God .
1 : 29 For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ , not only to believe on him , but also to suffer for his sake ; 1 : 30 Having the same conflict which ye saw in me , and now hear to be in me .
2 : 1 If there be therefore any consolation in Christ , if any comfort of love , if any fellowship of the Spirit , if any bowels and mercies , 2 : 2 Fulfil ye my joy , that ye be likeminded , having the same love , being of one accord , of one mind .
2 : 3 Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory ; but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves .
2 : 4 Look not every man on his own things , but every man also on the things of others .
2 : 5 Let this mind be in you , which was also in Christ Jesus : 2 : 6 Who , being in the form of God , thought it not robbery to be equal with God : 2 : 7 But made himself of no reputation , and took upon him the form of a servant , and was made in the likeness of men : 2 : 8 And being found in fashion as a man , he humbled himself , and became obedient unto death , even the death of the cross .
2 : 9 Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him , and given him a name which is above every name : 2 : 10 That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow , of things in heaven , and things in earth , and things under the earth ; 2 : 11 And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord , to the glory of God the Father .
2 : 12 Wherefore , my beloved , as ye have always obeyed , not as in my presence only , but now much more in my absence , work out your own salvation with fear and trembling .
2 : 13 For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure .
2 : 14 Do all things without murmurings and disputings : 2 : 15 That ye may be blameless and harmless , the sons of God , without rebuke , in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation , among whom ye shine as lights in the world ; 2 : 16 Holding forth the word of life ; that I may rejoice in the day of Christ , that I have not run in vain , neither laboured in vain .
2 : 17 Yea , and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith , I joy , and rejoice with you all .
2 : 18 For the same cause also do ye joy , and rejoice with me .
2 : 19 But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timotheus shortly unto you , that I also may be of good comfort , when I know your state .
2 : 20 For I have no man likeminded , who will naturally care for your state .
2 : 21 For all seek their own , not the things which are Jesus Christ ' s .
2 : 22 But ye know the proof of him , that , as a son with the father , he hath served with me in the gospel .
2 : 23 Him therefore I hope to send presently , so soon as I shall see how it will go with me .
2 : 24 But I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly .
2 : 25 Yet I supposed it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus , my brother , and companion in labour , and fellowsoldier , but your messenger , and he that ministered to my wants .
2 : 26 For he longed after you all , and was full of heaviness , because that ye had heard that he had been sick .
2 : 27 For indeed he was sick nigh unto death : but God had mercy on him ; and not on him only , but on me also , lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow .
2 : 28 I sent him therefore the more carefully , that , when ye see him again , ye may rejoice , and that I may be the less sorrowful .
2 : 29 Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness ; and hold such in reputation : 2 : 30 Because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death , not regarding his life , to supply your lack of service toward me .
3 : 1 Finally , my brethren , rejoice in the Lord .
To write the same things to you , to me indeed is not grievous , but for you it is safe .
3 : 2 Beware of dogs , beware of evil workers , beware of the concision .
3 : 3 For we are the circumcision , which worship God in the spirit , and rejoice in Christ Jesus , and have no confidence in the flesh .
3 : 4 Though I might also have confidence in the flesh .
If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh , I more : 3 : 5 Circumcised the eighth day , of the stock of Israel , of the tribe of Benjamin , an Hebrew of the Hebrews ; as touching the law , a Pharisee ; 3 : 6 Concerning zeal , persecuting the church ; touching the righteousness which is in the law , blameless .
3 : 7 But what things were gain to me , those I counted loss for Christ .
3 : 8 Yea doubtless , and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord : for whom I have suffered the loss of all things , and do count them but dung , that I may win Christ , 3 : 9 And be found in him , not having mine own righteousness , which is of the law , but that which is through the faith of Christ , the righteousness which is of God by faith : 3 : 10 That I may know him , and the power of his resurrection , and the fellowship of his sufferings , being made conformable unto his death ; 3 : 11 If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead .
3 : 12 Not as though I had already attained , either were already perfect : but I follow after , if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus .
3 : 13 Brethren , I count not myself to have apprehended : but this one thing I do , forgetting those things which are behind , and reaching forth unto those things which are before , 3 : 14 I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus .
3 : 15 Let us therefore , as many as be perfect , be thus minded : and if in any thing ye be otherwise minded , God shall reveal even this unto you .
3 : 16 Nevertheless , whereto we have already attained , let us walk by the same rule , let us mind the same thing .
3 : 17 Brethren , be followers together of me , and mark them which walk so as ye have us for an ensample .
3 : 18 ( For many walk , of whom I have told you often , and now tell you even weeping , that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ : 3 : 19 Whose end is destruction , whose God is their belly , and whose glory is in their shame , who mind earthly things .)
3 : 20 For our conversation is in heaven ; from whence also we look for the Saviour , the Lord Jesus Christ : 3 : 21 Who shall change our vile body , that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body , according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself .
4 : 1 Therefore , my brethren dearly beloved and longed for , my joy and crown , so stand fast in the Lord , my dearly beloved .
4 : 2 I beseech Euodias , and beseech Syntyche , that they be of the same mind in the Lord .
4 : 3 And I intreat thee also , true yokefellow , help those women which laboured with me in the gospel , with Clement also , and with other my fellowlabourers , whose names are in the book of life .
4 : 4 Rejoice in the Lord alway : and again I say , Rejoice .
4 : 5 Let your moderation be known unto all men .
The Lord is at hand .
4 : 6 Be careful for nothing ; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God .
4 : 7 And the peace of God , which passeth all understanding , shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus .
4 : 8 Finally , brethren , whatsoever things are true , whatsoever things are honest , whatsoever things are just , whatsoever things are pure , whatsoever things are lovely , whatsoever things are of good report ; if there be any virtue , and if there be any praise , think on these things .
4 : 9 Those things , which ye have both learned , and received , and heard , and seen in me , do : and the God of peace shall be with you .
4 : 10 But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly , that now at the last your care of me hath flourished again ; wherein ye were also careful , but ye lacked opportunity .
4 : 11 Not that I speak in respect of want : for I have learned , in whatsoever state I am , therewith to be content .
4 : 12 I know both how to be abased , and I know how to abound : every where and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry , both to abound and to suffer need .
4 : 13 I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me .
4 : 14 Notwithstanding ye have well done , that ye did communicate with my affliction .
4 : 15 Now ye Philippians know also , that in the beginning of the gospel , when I departed from Macedonia , no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving , but ye only .
4 : 16 For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity .
4 : 17 Not because I desire a gift : but I desire fruit that may abound to your account .
4 : 18 But I have all , and abound : I am full , having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you , an odour of a sweet smell , a sacrifice acceptable , wellpleasing to God .
4 : 19 But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus .
4 : 20 Now unto God and our Father be glory for ever and ever .
Amen .
4 : 21 Salute every saint in Christ Jesus .
The brethren which are with me greet you .
4 : 22 All the saints salute you , chiefly they that are of Caesar ' s household .
4 : 23 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all .
Amen .
The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Colossians
1 : 1 Paul , an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God , and Timotheus our brother , 1 : 2 To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ which are at Colosse : Grace be unto you , and peace , from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ .
1 : 3 We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ , praying always for you , 1 : 4 Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus , and of the love which ye have to all the saints , 1 : 5 For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven , whereof ye heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel ; 1 : 6 Which is come unto you , as it is in all the world ; and bringeth forth fruit , as it doth also in you , since the day ye heard of it , and knew the grace of God in truth : 1 : 7 As ye also learned of Epaphras our dear fellowservant , who is for you a faithful minister of Christ ; 1 : 8 Who also declared unto us your love in the Spirit .
1 : 9 For this cause we also , since the day we heard it , do not cease to pray for you , and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding ; 1 : 10 That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing , being fruitful in every good work , and increasing in the knowledge of God ; 1 : 11 Strengthened with all might , according to his glorious power , unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness ; 1 : 12 Giving thanks unto the Father , which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light : 1 : 13 Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness , and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son : 1 : 14 In whom we have redemption through his blood , even the forgiveness of sins : 1 : 15 Who is the image of the invisible God , the firstborn of every creature : 1 : 16 For by him were all things created , that are in heaven , and that are in earth , visible and invisible , whether they be thrones , or dominions , or principalities , or powers : all things were created by him , and for him : 1 : 17 And he is before all things , and by him all things consist .
1 : 18 And he is the head of the body , the church : who is the beginning , the firstborn from the dead ; that in all things he might have the preeminence .
1 : 19 For it pleased the Father that in him should all fulness dwell ; 1 : 20 And , having made peace through the blood of his cross , by him to reconcile all things unto himself ; by him , I say , whether they be things in earth , or things in heaven .
1 : 21 And you , that were sometime alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works , yet now hath he reconciled 1 : 22 In the body of his flesh through death , to present you holy and unblameable and unreproveable in his sight : 1 : 23 If ye continue in the faith grounded and settled , and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel , which ye have heard , and which was preached to every creature which is under heaven ; whereof I Paul am made a minister ; 1 : 24 Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you , and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body ' s sake , which is the church : 1 : 25 Whereof I am made a minister , according to the dispensation of God which is given to me for you , to fulfil the word of God ; 1 : 26 Even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations , but now is made manifest to his saints : 1 : 27 To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles ; which is Christ in you , the hope of glory : 1 : 28 Whom we preach , warning every man , and teaching every man in all wisdom ; that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus : 1 : 29 Whereunto I also labour , striving according to his working , which worketh in me mightily .
2 : 1 For I would that ye knew what great conflict I have for you , and for them at Laodicea , and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh ; 2 : 2 That their hearts might be comforted , being knit together in love , and unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding , to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God , and of the Father , and of Christ ; 2 : 3 In whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge .
2 : 4 And this I say , lest any man should beguile you with enticing words .
2 : 5 For though I be absent in the flesh , yet am I with you in the spirit , joying and beholding your order , and the stedfastness of your faith in Christ .
2 : 6 As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord , so walk ye in him : 2 : 7 Rooted and built up in him , and stablished in the faith , as ye have been taught , abounding therein with thanksgiving .
2 : 8 Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit , after the tradition of men , after the rudiments of the world , and not after Christ .
2 : 9 For in him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily .
2 : 10 And ye are complete in him , which is the head of all principality and power : 2 : 11 In whom also ye are circumcised with the circumcision made without hands , in putting off the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ : 2 : 12 Buried with him in baptism , wherein also ye are risen with him through the faith of the operation of God , who hath raised him from the dead .
2 : 13 And you , being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh , hath he quickened together with him , having forgiven you all trespasses ; 2 : 14 Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us , which was contrary to us , and took it out of the way , nailing it to his cross ; 2 : 15 And having spoiled principalities and powers , he made a shew of them openly , triumphing over them in it .
2 : 16 Let no man therefore judge you in meat , or in drink , or in respect of an holyday , or of the new moon , or of the sabbath days : 2 : 17 Which are a shadow of things to come ; but the body is of Christ .
2 : 18 Let no man beguile you of your reward in a voluntary humility and worshipping of angels , intruding into those things which he hath not seen , vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind , 2 : 19 And not holding the Head , from which all the body by joints and bands having nourishment ministered , and knit together , increaseth with the increase of God .
2 : 20 Wherefore if ye be dead with Christ from the rudiments of the world , why , as though living in the world , are ye subject to ordinances , 2 : 21 ( Touch not ; taste not ; handle not ; 2 : 22 Which all are to perish with the using ;) after the commandments and doctrines of men ?
2 : 23 Which things have indeed a shew of wisdom in will worship , and humility , and neglecting of the body : not in any honour to the satisfying of the flesh .
3 : 1 If ye then be risen with Christ , seek those things which are above , where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God .
3 : 2 Set your affection on things above , not on things on the earth .
3 : 3 For ye are dead , and your life is hid with Christ in God .
3 : 4 When Christ , who is our life , shall appear , then shall ye also appear with him in glory .
3 : 5 Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth ; fornication , uncleanness , inordinate affection , evil concupiscence , and covetousness , which is idolatry : 3 : 6 For which things ' sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience : 3 : 7 In the which ye also walked some time , when ye lived in them .
3 : 8 But now ye also put off all these ; anger , wrath , malice , blasphemy , filthy communication out of your mouth .
3 : 9 Lie not one to another , seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds ; 3 : 10 And have put on the new man , which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him : 3 : 11 Where there is neither Greek nor Jew , circumcision nor uncircumcision , Barbarian , Scythian , bond nor free : but Christ is all , and in all .
3 : 12 Put on therefore , as the elect of God , holy and beloved , bowels of mercies , kindness , humbleness of mind , meekness , longsuffering ; 3 : 13 Forbearing one another , and forgiving one another , if any man have a quarrel against any : even as Christ forgave you , so also do ye .
3 : 14 And above all these things put on charity , which is the bond of perfectness .
3 : 15 And let the peace of God rule in your hearts , to the which also ye are called in one body ; and be ye thankful .
3 : 16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom ; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs , singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord .
3 : 17 And whatsoever ye do in word or deed , do all in the name of the Lord Jesus , giving thanks to God and the Father by him .
3 : 18 Wives , submit yourselves unto your own husbands , as it is fit in the Lord .
3 : 19 Husbands , love your wives , and be not bitter against them .
3 : 20 Children , obey your parents in all things : for this is well pleasing unto the Lord .
3 : 21 Fathers , provoke not your children to anger , lest they be discouraged .
3 : 22 Servants , obey in all things your masters according to the flesh ; not with eyeservice , as menpleasers ; but in singleness of heart , fearing God ; 3 : 23 And whatsoever ye do , do it heartily , as to the Lord , and not unto men ; 3 : 24 Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance : for ye serve the Lord Christ .
3 : 25 But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath done : and there is no respect of persons .
4 : 1 Masters , give unto your servants that which is just and equal ; knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven .
4 : 2 Continue in prayer , and watch in the same with thanksgiving ; 4 : 3 Withal praying also for us , that God would open unto us a door of utterance , to speak the mystery of Christ , for which I am also in bonds : 4 : 4 That I may make it manifest , as I ought to speak .
4 : 5 Walk in wisdom toward them that are without , redeeming the time .
4 : 6 Let your speech be alway with grace , seasoned with salt , that ye may know how ye ought to answer every man .
4 : 7 All my state shall Tychicus declare unto you , who is a beloved brother , and a faithful minister and fellowservant in the Lord : 4 : 8 Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose , that he might know your estate , and comfort your hearts ; 4 : 9 With Onesimus , a faithful and beloved brother , who is one of you .
They shall make known unto you all things which are done here .
4 : 10 Aristarchus my fellowprisoner saluteth you , and Marcus , sister ' s son to Barnabas , ( touching whom ye received commandments : if he come unto you , receive him ;) 4 : 11 And Jesus , which is called Justus , who are of the circumcision .
These only are my fellowworkers unto the kingdom of God , which have been a comfort unto me .
4 : 12 Epaphras , who is one of you , a servant of Christ , saluteth you , always labouring fervently for you in prayers , that ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God .
4 : 13 For I bear him record , that he hath a great zeal for you , and them that are in Laodicea , and them in Hierapolis .
4 : 14 Luke , the beloved physician , and Demas , greet you .
4 : 15 Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea , and Nymphas , and the church which is in his house .
4 : 16 And when this epistle is read among you , cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans ; and that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea .
4 : 17 And say to Archippus , Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord , that thou fulfil it .
4 : 18 The salutation by the hand of me Paul .
Remember my bonds .
Grace be with you .
Amen .
The First Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Thessalonians
1 : 1 Paul , and Silvanus , and Timotheus , unto the church of the Thessalonians which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ : Grace be unto you , and peace , from God our Father , and the Lord Jesus Christ .
1 : 2 We give thanks to God always for you all , making mention of you in our prayers ; 1 : 3 Remembering without ceasing your work of faith , and labour of love , and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ , in the sight of God and our Father ; 1 : 4 Knowing , brethren beloved , your election of God .
1 : 5 For our gospel came not unto you in word only , but also in power , and in the Holy Ghost , and in much assurance ; as ye know what manner of men we were among you for your sake .
1 : 6 And ye became followers of us , and of the Lord , having received the word in much affliction , with joy of the Holy Ghost .
1 : 7 So that ye were ensamples to all that believe in Macedonia and Achaia .
1 : 8 For from you sounded out the word of the Lord not only in Macedonia and Achaia , but also in every place your faith to God - ward is spread abroad ; so that we need not to speak any thing .
1 : 9 For they themselves shew of us what manner of entering in we had unto you , and how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God ; 1 : 10 And to wait for his Son from heaven , whom he raised from the dead , even Jesus , which delivered us from the wrath to come .
2 : 1 For yourselves , brethren , know our entrance in unto you , that it was not in vain : 2 : 2 But even after that we had suffered before , and were shamefully entreated , as ye know , at Philippi , we were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much contention .
2 : 3 For our exhortation was not of deceit , nor of uncleanness , nor in guile : 2 : 4 But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel , even so we speak ; not as pleasing men , but God , which trieth our hearts .
2 : 5 For neither at any time used we flattering words , as ye know , nor a cloke of covetousness ; God is witness : 2 : 6 Nor of men sought we glory , neither of you , nor yet of others , when we might have been burdensome , as the apostles of Christ .
2 : 7 But we were gentle among you , even as a nurse cherisheth her children : 2 : 8 So being affectionately desirous of you , we were willing to have imparted unto you , not the gospel of God only , but also our own souls , because ye were dear unto us .
2 : 9 For ye remember , brethren , our labour and travail : for labouring night and day , because we would not be chargeable unto any of you , we preached unto you the gospel of God .
2 : 10 Ye are witnesses , and God also , how holily and justly and unblameably we behaved ourselves among you that believe : 2 : 11 As ye know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you , as a father doth his children , 2 : 12 That ye would walk worthy of God , who hath called you unto his kingdom and glory .
2 : 13 For this cause also thank we God without ceasing , because , when ye received the word of God which ye heard of us , ye received it not as the word of men , but as it is in truth , the word of God , which effectually worketh also in you that believe .
2 : 14 For ye , brethren , became followers of the churches of God which in Judaea are in Christ Jesus : for ye also have suffered like things of your own countrymen , even as they have of the Jews : 2 : 15 Who both killed the Lord Jesus , and their own prophets , and have persecuted us ; and they please not God , and are contrary to all men : 2 : 16 Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they might be saved , to fill up their sins alway : for the wrath is come upon them to the uttermost .
2 : 17 But we , brethren , being taken from you for a short time in presence , not in heart , endeavoured the more abundantly to see your face with great desire .
2 : 18 Wherefore we would have come unto you , even I Paul , once and again ; but Satan hindered us .
2 : 19 For what is our hope , or joy , or crown of rejoicing ?
Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming ?
2 : 20 For ye are our glory and joy .
3 : 1 Wherefore when we could no longer forbear , we thought it good to be left at Athens alone ; 3 : 2 And sent Timotheus , our brother , and minister of God , and our fellowlabourer in the gospel of Christ , to establish you , and to comfort you concerning your faith : 3 : 3 That no man should be moved by these afflictions : for yourselves know that we are appointed thereunto .
3 : 4 For verily , when we were with you , we told you before that we should suffer tribulation ; even as it came to pass , and ye know .
3 : 5 For this cause , when I could no longer forbear , I sent to know your faith , lest by some means the tempter have tempted you , and our labour be in vain .
3 : 6 But now when Timotheus came from you unto us , and brought us good tidings of your faith and charity , and that ye have good remembrance of us always , desiring greatly to see us , as we also to see you : 3 : 7 Therefore , brethren , we were comforted over you in all our affliction and distress by your faith : 3 : 8 For now we live , if ye stand fast in the Lord .
3 : 9 For what thanks can we render to God again for you , for all the joy wherewith we joy for your sakes before our God ; 3 : 10 Night and day praying exceedingly that we might see your face , and might perfect that which is lacking in your faith ?
3 : 11 Now God himself and our Father , and our Lord Jesus Christ , direct our way unto you .
3 : 12 And the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward another , and toward all men , even as we do toward you : 3 : 13 To the end he may stablish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God , even our Father , at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints .
4 : 1 Furthermore then we beseech you , brethren , and exhort you by the Lord Jesus , that as ye have received of us how ye ought to walk and to please God , so ye would abound more and more .
4 : 2 For ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus .
4 : 3 For this is the will of God , even your sanctification , that ye should abstain from fornication : 4 : 4 That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honour ; 4 : 5 Not in the lust of concupiscence , even as the Gentiles which know not God : 4 : 6 That no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter : because that the Lord is the avenger of all such , as we also have forewarned you and testified .
4 : 7 For God hath not called us unto uncleanness , but unto holiness .
4 : 8 He therefore that despiseth , despiseth not man , but God , who hath also given unto us his holy Spirit .
4 : 9 But as touching brotherly love ye need not that I write unto you : for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another .
4 : 10 And indeed ye do it toward all the brethren which are in all Macedonia : but we beseech you , brethren , that ye increase more and more ; 4 : 11 And that ye study to be quiet , and to do your own business , and to work with your own hands , as we commanded you ; 4 : 12 That ye may walk honestly toward them that are without , and that ye may have lack of nothing .
4 : 13 But I would not have you to be ignorant , brethren , concerning them which are asleep , that ye sorrow not , even as others which have no hope .
4 : 14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again , even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him .
4 : 15 For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord , that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep .
4 : 16 For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout , with the voice of the archangel , and with the trump of God : and the dead in Christ shall rise first : 4 : 17 Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds , to meet the Lord in the air : and so shall we ever be with the Lord .
4 : 18 Wherefore comfort one another with these words .
5 : 1 But of the times and the seasons , brethren , ye have no need that I write unto you .
5 : 2 For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night .
5 : 3 For when they shall say , Peace and safety ; then sudden destruction cometh upon them , as travail upon a woman with child ; and they shall not escape .
5 : 4 But ye , brethren , are not in darkness , that that day should overtake you as a thief .
5 : 5 Ye are all the children of light , and the children of the day : we are not of the night , nor of darkness .
5 : 6 Therefore let us not sleep , as do others ; but let us watch and be sober .
5 : 7 For they that sleep sleep in the night ; and they that be drunken are drunken in the night .
5 : 8 But let us , who are of the day , be sober , putting on the breastplate of faith and love ; and for an helmet , the hope of salvation .
5 : 9 For God hath not appointed us to wrath , but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ , 5 : 10 Who died for us , that , whether we wake or sleep , we should live together with him .
5 : 11 Wherefore comfort yourselves together , and edify one another , even as also ye do .
5 : 12 And we beseech you , brethren , to know them which labour among you , and are over you in the Lord , and admonish you ; 5 : 13 And to esteem them very highly in love for their work ' s sake .
And be at peace among yourselves .
5 : 14 Now we exhort you , brethren , warn them that are unruly , comfort the feebleminded , support the weak , be patient toward all men .
5 : 15 See that none render evil for evil unto any man ; but ever follow that which is good , both among yourselves , and to all men .
5 : 16 Rejoice evermore .
5 : 17 Pray without ceasing .
5 : 18 In every thing give thanks : for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you .
5 : 19 Quench not the Spirit .
5 : 20 Despise not prophesyings .
5 : 21 Prove all things ; hold fast that which is good .
5 : 22 Abstain from all appearance of evil .
5 : 23 And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly ; and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ .
5 : 24 Faithful is he that calleth you , who also will do it .
5 : 25 Brethren , pray for us .
5 : 26 Greet all the brethren with an holy kiss .
5 : 27 I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read unto all the holy brethren .
5 : 28 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you .
Amen .
The Second Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Thessalonians
1 : 1 Paul , and Silvanus , and Timotheus , unto the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ : 1 : 2 Grace unto you , and peace , from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ .
1 : 3 We are bound to thank God always for you , brethren , as it is meet , because that your faith groweth exceedingly , and the charity of every one of you all toward each other aboundeth ; 1 : 4 So that we ourselves glory in you in the churches of God for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure : 1 : 5 Which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God , that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God , for which ye also suffer : 1 : 6 Seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you ; 1 : 7 And to you who are troubled rest with us , when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels , 1 : 8 In flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not God , and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ : 1 : 9 Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord , and from the glory of his power ; 1 : 10 When he shall come to be glorified in his saints , and to be admired in all them that believe ( because our testimony among you was believed ) in that day .
1 : 11 Wherefore also we pray always for you , that our God would count you worthy of this calling , and fulfil all the good pleasure of his goodness , and the work of faith with power : 1 : 12 That the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you , and ye in him , according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ .
2 : 1 Now we beseech you , brethren , by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ , and by our gathering together unto him , 2 : 2 That ye be not soon shaken in mind , or be troubled , neither by spirit , nor by word , nor by letter as from us , as that the day of Christ is at hand .
2 : 3 Let no man deceive you by any means : for that day shall not come , except there come a falling away first , and that man of sin be revealed , the son of perdition ; 2 : 4 Who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God , or that is worshipped ; so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God , shewing himself that he is God .
2 : 5 Remember ye not , that , when I was yet with you , I told you these things ?
2 : 6 And now ye know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time .
2 : 7 For the mystery of iniquity doth already work : only he who now letteth will let , until he be taken out of the way .
2 : 8 And then shall that Wicked be revealed , whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth , and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming : 2 : 9 Even him , whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders , 2 : 10 And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish ; because they received not the love of the truth , that they might be saved .
2 : 11 And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion , that they should believe a lie : 2 : 12 That they all might be damned who believed not the truth , but had pleasure in unrighteousness .
2 : 13 But we are bound to give thanks alway to God for you , brethren beloved of the Lord , because God hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth : 2 : 14 Whereunto he called you by our gospel , to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ .
2 : 15 Therefore , brethren , stand fast , and hold the traditions which ye have been taught , whether by word , or our epistle .
2 : 16 Now our Lord Jesus Christ himself , and God , even our Father , which hath loved us , and hath given us everlasting consolation and good hope through grace , 2 : 17 Comfort your hearts , and stablish you in every good word and work .
3 : 1 Finally , brethren , pray for us , that the word of the Lord may have free course , and be glorified , even as it is with you : 3 : 2 And that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men : for all men have not faith .
3 : 3 But the Lord is faithful , who shall stablish you , and keep you from evil .
3 : 4 And we have confidence in the Lord touching you , that ye both do and will do the things which we command you .
3 : 5 And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God , and into the patient waiting for Christ .
3 : 6 Now we command you , brethren , in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ , that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly , and not after the tradition which he received of us .
3 : 7 For yourselves know how ye ought to follow us : for we behaved not ourselves disorderly among you ; 3 : 8 Neither did we eat any man ' s bread for nought ; but wrought with labour and travail night and day , that we might not be chargeable to any of you : 3 : 9 Not because we have not power , but to make ourselves an ensample unto you to follow us .
3 : 10 For even when we were with you , this we commanded you , that if any would not work , neither should he eat .
3 : 11 For we hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly , working not at all , but are busybodies .
3 : 12 Now them that are such we command and exhort by our Lord Jesus Christ , that with quietness they work , and eat their own bread .
3 : 13 But ye , brethren , be not weary in well doing .
3 : 14 And if any man obey not our word by this epistle , note that man , and have no company with him , that he may be ashamed .
3 : 15 Yet count him not as an enemy , but admonish him as a brother .
3 : 16 Now the Lord of peace himself give you peace always by all means .
The Lord be with you all .
3 : 17 The salutation of Paul with mine own hand , which is the token in every epistle : so I write .
3 : 18 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all .
Amen .
The First Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Timothy
1 : 1 Paul , an apostle of Jesus Christ by the commandment of God our Saviour , and Lord Jesus Christ , which is our hope ; 1 : 2 Unto Timothy , my own son in the faith : Grace , mercy , and peace , from God our Father and Jesus Christ our Lord .
1 : 3 As I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus , when I went into Macedonia , that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine , 1 : 4 Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies , which minister questions , rather than godly edifying which is in faith : so do .
1 : 5 Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart , and of a good conscience , and of faith unfeigned : 1 : 6 From which some having swerved have turned aside unto vain jangling ; 1 : 7 Desiring to be teachers of the law ; understanding neither what they say , nor whereof they affirm .
1 : 8 But we know that the law is good , if a man use it lawfully ; 1 : 9 Knowing this , that the law is not made for a righteous man , but for the lawless and disobedient , for the ungodly and for sinners , for unholy and profane , for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers , for manslayers , 1 : 10 For whoremongers , for them that defile themselves with mankind , for menstealers , for liars , for perjured persons , and if there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine ; 1 : 11 According to the glorious gospel of the blessed God , which was committed to my trust .
1 : 12 And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord , who hath enabled me , for that he counted me faithful , putting me into the ministry ; 1 : 13 Who was before a blasphemer , and a persecutor , and injurious : but I obtained mercy , because I did it ignorantly in unbelief .
1 : 14 And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus .
1 : 15 This is a faithful saying , and worthy of all acceptation , that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners ; of whom I am chief .
1 : 16 Howbeit for this cause I obtained mercy , that in me first Jesus Christ might shew forth all longsuffering , for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to life everlasting .
1 : 17 Now unto the King eternal , immortal , invisible , the only wise God , be honour and glory for ever and ever .
Amen .
1 : 18 This charge I commit unto thee , son Timothy , according to the prophecies which went before on thee , that thou by them mightest war a good warfare ; 1 : 19 Holding faith , and a good conscience ; which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck : 1 : 20 Of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander ; whom I have delivered unto Satan , that they may learn not to blaspheme .
2 : 1 I exhort therefore , that , first of all , supplications , prayers , intercessions , and giving of thanks , be made for all men ; 2 : 2 For kings , and for all that are in authority ; that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty .
2 : 3 For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour ; 2 : 4 Who will have all men to be saved , and to come unto the knowledge of the truth .
2 : 5 For there is one God , and one mediator between God and men , the man Christ Jesus ; 2 : 6 Who gave himself a ransom for all , to be testified in due time .
2 : 7 Whereunto I am ordained a preacher , and an apostle , ( I speak the truth in Christ , and lie not ;) a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and verity .
2 : 8 I will therefore that men pray every where , lifting up holy hands , without wrath and doubting .
2 : 9 In like manner also , that women adorn themselves in modest apparel , with shamefacedness and sobriety ; not with broided hair , or gold , or pearls , or costly array ; 2 : 10 But ( which becometh women professing godliness ) with good works .
2 : 11 Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection .
2 : 12 But I suffer not a woman to teach , nor to usurp authority over the man , but to be in silence .
2 : 13 For Adam was first formed , then Eve .
2 : 14 And Adam was not deceived , but the woman being deceived was in the transgression .
2 : 15 Notwithstanding she shall be saved in childbearing , if they continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety .
3 : 1 This is a true saying , If a man desire the office of a bishop , he desireth a good work .
3 : 2 A bishop then must be blameless , the husband of one wife , vigilant , sober , of good behaviour , given to hospitality , apt to teach ; 3 : 3 Not given to wine , no striker , not greedy of filthy lucre ; but patient , not a brawler , not covetous ; 3 : 4 One that ruleth well his own house , having his children in subjection with all gravity ; 3 : 5 ( For if a man know not how to rule his own house , how shall he take care of the church of God ?)
3 : 6 Not a novice , lest being lifted up with pride he fall into the condemnation of the devil .
3 : 7 Moreover he must have a good report of them which are without ; lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil .
3 : 8 Likewise must the deacons be grave , not doubletongued , not given to much wine , not greedy of filthy lucre ; 3 : 9 Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience .
3 : 10 And let these also first be proved ; then let them use the office of a deacon , being found blameless .
3 : 11 Even so must their wives be grave , not slanderers , sober , faithful in all things .
3 : 12 Let the deacons be the husbands of one wife , ruling their children and their own houses well .
3 : 13 For they that have used the office of a deacon well purchase to themselves a good degree , and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus .
3 : 14 These things write I unto thee , hoping to come unto thee shortly : 3 : 15 But if I tarry long , that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God , which is the church of the living God , the pillar and ground of the truth .
3 : 16 And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness : God was manifest in the flesh , justified in the Spirit , seen of angels , preached unto the Gentiles , believed on in the world , received up into glory .
4 : 1 Now the Spirit speaketh expressly , that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith , giving heed to seducing spirits , and doctrines of devils ; 4 : 2 Speaking lies in hypocrisy ; having their conscience seared with a hot iron ; 4 : 3 Forbidding to marry , and commanding to abstain from meats , which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth .
4 : 4 For every creature of God is good , and nothing to be refused , if it be received with thanksgiving : 4 : 5 For it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer .
4 : 6 If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things , thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ , nourished up in the words of faith and of good doctrine , whereunto thou hast attained .
4 : 7 But refuse profane and old wives ' fables , and exercise thyself rather unto godliness .
4 : 8 For bodily exercise profiteth little : but godliness is profitable unto all things , having promise of the life that now is , and of that which is to come .
4 : 9 This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation .
4 : 10 For therefore we both labour and suffer reproach , because we trust in the living God , who is the Saviour of all men , specially of those that believe .
4 : 11 These things command and teach .
4 : 12 Let no man despise thy youth ; but be thou an example of the believers , in word , in conversation , in charity , in spirit , in faith , in purity .
4 : 13 Till I come , give attendance to reading , to exhortation , to doctrine .
4 : 14 Neglect not the gift that is in thee , which was given thee by prophecy , with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery .
4 : 15 Meditate upon these things ; give thyself wholly to them ; that thy profiting may appear to all .
4 : 16 Take heed unto thyself , and unto the doctrine ; continue in them : for in doing this thou shalt both save thyself , and them that hear thee .
5 : 1 Rebuke not an elder , but intreat him as a father ; and the younger men as brethren ; 5 : 2 The elder women as mothers ; the younger as sisters , with all purity .
5 : 3 Honour widows that are widows indeed .
5 : 4 But if any widow have children or nephews , let them learn first to shew piety at home , and to requite their parents : for that is good and acceptable before God .
5 : 5 Now she that is a widow indeed , and desolate , trusteth in God , and continueth in supplications and prayers night and day .
5 : 6 But she that liveth in pleasure is dead while she liveth .
5 : 7 And these things give in charge , that they may be blameless .
5 : 8 But if any provide not for his own , and specially for those of his own house , he hath denied the faith , and is worse than an infidel .
5 : 9 Let not a widow be taken into the number under threescore years old , having been the wife of one man .
5 : 10 Well reported of for good works ; if she have brought up children , if she have lodged strangers , if she have washed the saints ' feet , if she have relieved the afflicted , if she have diligently followed every good work .
5 : 11 But the younger widows refuse : for when they have begun to wax wanton against Christ , they will marry ; 5 : 12 Having damnation , because they have cast off their first faith .
5 : 13 And withal they learn to be idle , wandering about from house to house ; and not only idle , but tattlers also and busybodies , speaking things which they ought not .
5 : 14 I will therefore that the younger women marry , bear children , guide the house , give none occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully .
5 : 15 For some are already turned aside after Satan .
5 : 16 If any man or woman that believeth have widows , let them relieve them , and let not the church be charged ; that it may relieve them that are widows indeed .
5 : 17 Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honour , especially they who labour in the word and doctrine .
5 : 18 For the scripture saith , Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn .
And , The labourer is worthy of his reward .
5 : 19 Against an elder receive not an accusation , but before two or three witnesses .
5 : 20 Them that sin rebuke before all , that others also may fear .
5 : 21 I charge thee before God , and the Lord Jesus Christ , and the elect angels , that thou observe these things without preferring one before another , doing nothing by partiality .
5 : 22 Lay hands suddenly on no man , neither be partaker of other men ' s sins : keep thyself pure .
5 : 23 Drink no longer water , but use a little wine for thy stomach ' s sake and thine often infirmities .
5 : 24 Some men ' s sins are open beforehand , going before to judgment ; and some men they follow after .
5 : 25 Likewise also the good works of some are manifest beforehand ; and they that are otherwise cannot be hid .
6 : 1 Let as many servants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honour , that the name of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed .
6 : 2 And they that have believing masters , let them not despise them , because they are brethren ; but rather do them service , because they are faithful and beloved , partakers of the benefit .
These things teach and exhort .
6 : 3 If any man teach otherwise , and consent not to wholesome words , even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ , and to the doctrine which is according to godliness ; 6 : 4 He is proud , knowing nothing , but doting about questions and strifes of words , whereof cometh envy , strife , railings , evil surmisings , 6 : 5 Perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds , and destitute of the truth , supposing that gain is godliness : from such withdraw thyself .
6 : 6 But godliness with contentment is great gain .
6 : 7 For we brought nothing into this world , and it is certain we can carry nothing out .
6 : 8 And having food and raiment let us be therewith content .
6 : 9 But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare , and into many foolish and hurtful lusts , which drown men in destruction and perdition .
6 : 10 For the love of money is the root of all evil : which while some coveted after , they have erred from the faith , and pierced themselves through with many sorrows .
6 : 11 But thou , O man of God , flee these things ; and follow after righteousness , godliness , faith , love , patience , meekness .
6 : 12 Fight the good fight of faith , lay hold on eternal life , whereunto thou art also called , and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses .
6 : 13 I give thee charge in the sight of God , who quickeneth all things , and before Christ Jesus , who before Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession ; 6 : 14 That thou keep this commandment without spot , unrebukable , until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ : 6 : 15 Which in his times he shall shew , who is the blessed and only Potentate , the King of kings , and Lord of lords ; 6 : 16 Who only hath immortality , dwelling in the light which no man can approach unto ; whom no man hath seen , nor can see : to whom be honour and power everlasting .
Amen .
6 : 17 Charge them that are rich in this world , that they be not highminded , nor trust in uncertain riches , but in the living God , who giveth us richly all things to enjoy ; 6 : 18 That they do good , that they be rich in good works , ready to distribute , willing to communicate ; 6 : 19 Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come , that they may lay hold on eternal life .
6 : 20 O Timothy , keep that which is committed to thy trust , avoiding profane and vain babblings , and oppositions of science falsely so called : 6 : 21 Which some professing have erred concerning the faith .
Grace be with thee .
Amen .
The Second Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Timothy
1 : 1 Paul , an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God , according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus , 1 : 2 To Timothy , my dearly beloved son : Grace , mercy , and peace , from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord .
1 : 3 I thank God , whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience , that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day ; 1 : 4 Greatly desiring to see thee , being mindful of thy tears , that I may be filled with joy ; 1 : 5 When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee , which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois , and thy mother Eunice ; and I am persuaded that in thee also .
1 : 6 Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God , which is in thee by the putting on of my hands .
1 : 7 For God hath not given us the spirit of fear ; but of power , and of love , and of a sound mind .
1 : 8 Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord , nor of me his prisoner : but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God ; 1 : 9 Who hath saved us , and called us with an holy calling , not according to our works , but according to his own purpose and grace , which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began , 1 : 10 But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ , who hath abolished death , and hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel : 1 : 11 Whereunto I am appointed a preacher , and an apostle , and a teacher of the Gentiles .
1 : 12 For the which cause I also suffer these things : nevertheless I am not ashamed : for I know whom I have believed , and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day .
1 : 13 Hold fast the form of sound words , which thou hast heard of me , in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus .
1 : 14 That good thing which was committed unto thee keep by the Holy Ghost which dwelleth in us .
1 : 15 This thou knowest , that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me ; of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes .
1 : 16 The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesiphorus ; for he oft refreshed me , and was not ashamed of my chain : 1 : 17 But , when he was in Rome , he sought me out very diligently , and found me .
1 : 18 The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in that day : and in how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus , thou knowest very well .
2 : 1 Thou therefore , my son , be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus .
2 : 2 And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses , the same commit thou to faithful men , who shall be able to teach others also .
2 : 3 Thou therefore endure hardness , as a good soldier of Jesus Christ .
2 : 4 No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life ; that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier .
2 : 5 And if a man also strive for masteries , yet is he not crowned , except he strive lawfully .
2 : 6 The husbandman that laboureth must be first partaker of the fruits .
2 : 7 Consider what I say ; and the Lord give thee understanding in all things .
2 : 8 Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel : 2 : 9 Wherein I suffer trouble , as an evil doer , even unto bonds ; but the word of God is not bound .
2 : 10 Therefore I endure all things for the elect ' s sakes , that they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory .
2 : 11 It is a faithful saying : For if we be dead with him , we shall also live with him : 2 : 12 If we suffer , we shall also reign with him : if we deny him , he also will deny us : 2 : 13 If we believe not , yet he abideth faithful : he cannot deny himself .
2 : 14 Of these things put them in remembrance , charging them before the Lord that they strive not about words to no profit , but to the subverting of the hearers .
2 : 15 Study to shew thyself approved unto God , a workman that needeth not to be ashamed , rightly dividing the word of truth .
2 : 16 But shun profane and vain babblings : for they will increase unto more ungodliness .
2 : 17 And their word will eat as doth a canker : of whom is Hymenaeus and Philetus ; 2 : 18 Who concerning the truth have erred , saying that the resurrection is past already ; and overthrow the faith of some .
2 : 19 Nevertheless the foundation of God standeth sure , having this seal , The Lord knoweth them that are his .
And , Let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity .
2 : 20 But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver , but also of wood and of earth ; and some to honour , and some to dishonour .
2 : 21 If a man therefore purge himself from these , he shall be a vessel unto honour , sanctified , and meet for the master ' s use , and prepared unto every good work .
2 : 22 Flee also youthful lusts : but follow righteousness , faith , charity , peace , with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart .
2 : 23 But foolish and unlearned questions avoid , knowing that they do gender strifes .
2 : 24 And the servant of the Lord must not strive ; but be gentle unto all men , apt to teach , patient , 2 : 25 In meekness instructing those that oppose themselves ; if God peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth ; 2 : 26 And that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil , who are taken captive by him at his will .
3 : 1 This know also , that in the last days perilous times shall come .
3 : 2 For men shall be lovers of their own selves , covetous , boasters , proud , blasphemers , disobedient to parents , unthankful , unholy , 3 : 3 Without natural affection , trucebreakers , false accusers , incontinent , fierce , despisers of those that are good , 3 : 4 Traitors , heady , highminded , lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God ; 3 : 5 Having a form of godliness , but denying the power thereof : from such turn away .
3 : 6 For of this sort are they which creep into houses , and lead captive silly women laden with sins , led away with divers lusts , 3 : 7 Ever learning , and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth .
3 : 8 Now as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses , so do these also resist the truth : men of corrupt minds , reprobate concerning the faith .
3 : 9 But they shall proceed no further : for their folly shall be manifest unto all men , as their ' s also was .
3 : 10 But thou hast fully known my doctrine , manner of life , purpose , faith , longsuffering , charity , patience , 3 : 11 Persecutions , afflictions , which came unto me at Antioch , at Iconium , at Lystra ; what persecutions I endured : but out of them all the Lord delivered me .
3 : 12 Yea , and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution .
3 : 13 But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse , deceiving , and being deceived .
3 : 14 But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of , knowing of whom thou hast learned them ; 3 : 15 And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures , which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus .
3 : 16 All scripture is given by inspiration of God , and is profitable for doctrine , for reproof , for correction , for instruction in righteousness : 3 : 17 That the man of God may be perfect , throughly furnished unto all good works .
4 : 1 I charge thee therefore before God , and the Lord Jesus Christ , who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom ; 4 : 2 Preach the word ; be instant in season , out of season ; reprove , rebuke , exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine .
4 : 3 For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine ; but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers , having itching ears ; 4 : 4 And they shall turn away their ears from the truth , and shall be turned unto fables .
4 : 5 But watch thou in all things , endure afflictions , do the work of an evangelist , make full proof of thy ministry .
4 : 6 For I am now ready to be offered , and the time of my departure is at hand .
4 : 7 I have fought a good fight , I have finished my course , I have kept the faith : 4 : 8 Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness , which the Lord , the righteous judge , shall give me at that day : and not to me only , but unto all them also that love his appearing .
4 : 9 Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me : 4 : 10 For Demas hath forsaken me , having loved this present world , and is departed unto Thessalonica ; Crescens to Galatia , Titus unto Dalmatia .
4 : 11 Only Luke is with me .
Take Mark , and bring him with thee : for he is profitable to me for the ministry .
4 : 12 And Tychicus have I sent to Ephesus .
4 : 13 The cloke that I left at Troas with Carpus , when thou comest , bring with thee , and the books , but especially the parchments .
4 : 14 Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil : the Lord reward him according to his works : 4 : 15 Of whom be thou ware also ; for he hath greatly withstood our words .
4 : 16 At my first answer no man stood with me , but all men forsook me : I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge .
4 : 17 Notwithstanding the Lord stood with me , and strengthened me ; that by me the preaching might be fully known , and that all the Gentiles might hear : and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion .
4 : 18 And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work , and will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom : to whom be glory for ever and ever .
Amen .
4 : 19 Salute Prisca and Aquila , and the household of Onesiphorus .
4 : 20 Erastus abode at Corinth : but Trophimus have I left at Miletum sick .
4 : 21 Do thy diligence to come before winter .
Eubulus greeteth thee , and Pudens , and Linus , and Claudia , and all the brethren .
4 : 22 The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit .
Grace be with you .
Amen .
The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Titus
1 : 1 Paul , a servant of God , and an apostle of Jesus Christ , according to the faith of God ' s elect , and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness ; 1 : 2 In hope of eternal life , which God , that cannot lie , promised before the world began ; 1 : 3 But hath in due times manifested his word through preaching , which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our Saviour ; 1 : 4 To Titus , mine own son after the common faith : Grace , mercy , and peace , from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour .
1 : 5 For this cause left I thee in Crete , that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting , and ordain elders in every city , as I had appointed thee : 1 : 6 If any be blameless , the husband of one wife , having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly .
1 : 7 For a bishop must be blameless , as the steward of God ; not selfwilled , not soon angry , not given to wine , no striker , not given to filthy lucre ; 1 : 8 But a lover of hospitality , a lover of good men , sober , just , holy , temperate ; 1 : 9 Holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught , that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers .
1 : 10 For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers , specially they of the circumcision : 1 : 11 Whose mouths must be stopped , who subvert whole houses , teaching things which they ought not , for filthy lucre ' s sake .
1 : 12 One of themselves , even a prophet of their own , said , The Cretians are alway liars , evil beasts , slow bellies .
1 : 13 This witness is true .
Wherefore rebuke them sharply , that they may be sound in the faith ; 1 : 14 Not giving heed to Jewish fables , and commandments of men , that turn from the truth .
1 : 15 Unto the pure all things are pure : but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure ; but even their mind and conscience is defiled .
1 : 16 They profess that they know God ; but in works they deny him , being abominable , and disobedient , and unto every good work reprobate .
2 : 1 But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine : 2 : 2 That the aged men be sober , grave , temperate , sound in faith , in charity , in patience .
2 : 3 The aged women likewise , that they be in behaviour as becometh holiness , not false accusers , not given to much wine , teachers of good things ; 2 : 4 That they may teach the young women to be sober , to love their husbands , to love their children , 2 : 5 To be discreet , chaste , keepers at home , good , obedient to their own husbands , that the word of God be not blasphemed .
2 : 6 Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded .
2 : 7 In all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works : in doctrine shewing uncorruptness , gravity , sincerity , 2 : 8 Sound speech , that cannot be condemned ; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed , having no evil thing to say of you .
2 : 9 Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters , and to please them well in all things ; not answering again ; 2 : 10 Not purloining , but shewing all good fidelity ; that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things .
2 : 11 For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men , 2 : 12 Teaching us that , denying ungodliness and worldly lusts , we should live soberly , righteously , and godly , in this present world ; 2 : 13 Looking for that blessed hope , and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ ; 2 : 14 Who gave himself for us , that he might redeem us from all iniquity , and purify unto himself a peculiar people , zealous of good works .
2 : 15 These things speak , and exhort , and rebuke with all authority .
Let no man despise thee .
3 : 1 Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers , to obey magistrates , to be ready to every good work , 3 : 2 To speak evil of no man , to be no brawlers , but gentle , shewing all meekness unto all men .
3 : 3 For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish , disobedient , deceived , serving divers lusts and pleasures , living in malice and envy , hateful , and hating one another .
3 : 4 But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared , 3 : 5 Not by works of righteousness which we have done , but according to his mercy he saved us , by the washing of regeneration , and renewing of the Holy Ghost ; 3 : 6 Which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour ; 3 : 7 That being justified by his grace , we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life .
3 : 8 This is a faithful saying , and these things I will that thou affirm constantly , that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works .
These things are good and profitable unto men .
3 : 9 But avoid foolish questions , and genealogies , and contentions , and strivings about the law ; for they are unprofitable and vain .
3 : 10 A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject ; 3 : 11 Knowing that he that is such is subverted , and sinneth , being condemned of himself .
3 : 12 When I shall send Artemas unto thee , or Tychicus , be diligent to come unto me to Nicopolis : for I have determined there to winter .
3 : 13 Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently , that nothing be wanting unto them .
3 : 14 And let our ' s also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses , that they be not unfruitful .
3 : 15 All that are with me salute thee .
Greet them that love us in the faith .
Grace be with you all .
Amen .
The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Philemon
1 : 1 Paul , a prisoner of Jesus Christ , and Timothy our brother , unto Philemon our dearly beloved , and fellowlabourer , 1 : 2 And to our beloved Apphia , and Archippus our fellowsoldier , and to the church in thy house : 1 : 3 Grace to you , and peace , from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ .
1 : 4 I thank my God , making mention of thee always in my prayers , 1 : 5 Hearing of thy love and faith , which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus , and toward all saints ; 1 : 6 That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus .
1 : 7 For we have great joy and consolation in thy love , because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee , brother .
1 : 8 Wherefore , though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee that which is convenient , 1 : 9 Yet for love ' s sake I rather beseech thee , being such an one as Paul the aged , and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ .
1 : 10 I beseech thee for my son Onesimus , whom I have begotten in my bonds : 1 : 11 Which in time past was to thee unprofitable , but now profitable to thee and to me : 1 : 12 Whom I have sent again : thou therefore receive him , that is , mine own bowels : 1 : 13 Whom I would have retained with me , that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel : 1 : 14 But without thy mind would I do nothing ; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity , but willingly .
1 : 15 For perhaps he therefore departed for a season , that thou shouldest receive him for ever ; 1 : 16 Not now as a servant , but above a servant , a brother beloved , specially to me , but how much more unto thee , both in the flesh , and in the Lord ?
1 : 17 If thou count me therefore a partner , receive him as myself .
1 : 18 If he hath wronged thee , or oweth thee ought , put that on mine account ; 1 : 19 I Paul have written it with mine own hand , I will repay it : albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self besides .
1 : 20 Yea , brother , let me have joy of thee in the Lord : refresh my bowels in the Lord .
1 : 21 Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote unto thee , knowing that thou wilt also do more than I say .
1 : 22 But withal prepare me also a lodging : for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given unto you .
1 : 23 There salute thee Epaphras , my fellowprisoner in Christ Jesus ; 1 : 24 Marcus , Aristarchus , Demas , Lucas , my fellowlabourers .
1 : 25 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit .
Amen .
The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews
1 : 1 God , who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets , 1 : 2 Hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son , whom he hath appointed heir of all things , by whom also he made the worlds ; 1 : 3 Who being the brightness of his glory , and the express image of his person , and upholding all things by the word of his power , when he had by himself purged our sins , sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high : 1 : 4 Being made so much better than the angels , as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they .
1 : 5 For unto which of the angels said he at any time , Thou art my Son , this day have I begotten thee ?
And again , I will be to him a Father , and he shall be to me a Son ?
1 : 6 And again , when he bringeth in the firstbegotten into the world , he saith , And let all the angels of God worship him .
1 : 7 And of the angels he saith , Who maketh his angels spirits , and his ministers a flame of fire .
1 : 8 But unto the Son he saith , Thy throne , O God , is for ever and ever : a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom .
1 : 9 Thou hast loved righteousness , and hated iniquity ; therefore God , even thy God , hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows .
1 : 10 And , Thou , Lord , in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth ; and the heavens are the works of thine hands : 1 : 11 They shall perish ; but thou remainest ; and they all shall wax old as doth a garment ; 1 : 12 And as a vesture shalt thou fold them up , and they shall be changed : but thou art the same , and thy years shall not fail .
1 : 13 But to which of the angels said he at any time , Sit on my right hand , until I make thine enemies thy footstool ?
1 : 14 Are they not all ministering spirits , sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation ?
2 : 1 Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard , lest at any time we should let them slip .
2 : 2 For if the word spoken by angels was stedfast , and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompence of reward ; 2 : 3 How shall we escape , if we neglect so great salvation ; which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord , and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him ; 2 : 4 God also bearing them witness , both with signs and wonders , and with divers miracles , and gifts of the Holy Ghost , according to his own will ?
2 : 5 For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come , whereof we speak .
2 : 6 But one in a certain place testified , saying , What is man , that thou art mindful of him ?
or the son of man that thou visitest him ?
2 : 7 Thou madest him a little lower than the angels ; thou crownedst him with glory and honour , and didst set him over the works of thy hands : 2 : 8 Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet .
For in that he put all in subjection under him , he left nothing that is not put under him .
But now we see not yet all things put under him .
2 : 9 But we see Jesus , who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death , crowned with glory and honour ; that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man .
2 : 10 For it became him , for whom are all things , and by whom are all things , in bringing many sons unto glory , to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings .
2 : 11 For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one : for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren , 2 : 12 Saying , I will declare thy name unto my brethren , in the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee .
2 : 13 And again , I will put my trust in him .
And again , Behold I and the children which God hath given me .
2 : 14 Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood , he also himself likewise took part of the same ; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death , that is , the devil ; 2 : 15 And deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage .
2 : 16 For verily he took not on him the nature of angels ; but he took on him the seed of Abraham .
2 : 17 Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be made like unto his brethren , that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God , to make reconciliation for the sins of the people .
2 : 18 For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted , he is able to succour them that are tempted .
3 : 1 Wherefore , holy brethren , partakers of the heavenly calling , consider the Apostle and High Priest of our profession , Christ Jesus ; 3 : 2 Who was faithful to him that appointed him , as also Moses was faithful in all his house .
3 : 3 For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses , inasmuch as he who hath builded the house hath more honour than the house .
3 : 4 For every house is builded by some man ; but he that built all things is God .
3 : 5 And Moses verily was faithful in all his house , as a servant , for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after ; 3 : 6 But Christ as a son over his own house ; whose house are we , if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end .
3 : 7 Wherefore ( as the Holy Ghost saith , To day if ye will hear his voice , 3 : 8 Harden not your hearts , as in the provocation , in the day of temptation in the wilderness : 3 : 9 When your fathers tempted me , proved me , and saw my works forty years .
3 : 10 Wherefore I was grieved with that generation , and said , They do alway err in their heart ; and they have not known my ways .
3 : 11 So I sware in my wrath , They shall not enter into my rest .)
3 : 12 Take heed , brethren , lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief , in departing from the living God .
3 : 13 But exhort one another daily , while it is called To day ; lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin .
3 : 14 For we are made partakers of Christ , if we hold the beginning of our confidence stedfast unto the end ; 3 : 15 While it is said , To day if ye will hear his voice , harden not your hearts , as in the provocation .
3 : 16 For some , when they had heard , did provoke : howbeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses .
3 : 17 But with whom was he grieved forty years ?
was it not with them that had sinned , whose carcases fell in the wilderness ?
3 : 18 And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest , but to them that believed not ?
3 : 19 So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief .
4 : 1 Let us therefore fear , lest , a promise being left us of entering into his rest , any of you should seem to come short of it .
4 : 2 For unto us was the gospel preached , as well as unto them : but the word preached did not profit them , not being mixed with faith in them that heard it .
4 : 3 For we which have believed do enter into rest , as he said , As I have sworn in my wrath , if they shall enter into my rest : although the works were finished from the foundation of the world .
4 : 4 For he spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise , And God did rest the seventh day from all his works .
4 : 5 And in this place again , If they shall enter into my rest .
4 : 6 Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein , and they to whom it was first preached entered not in because of unbelief : 4 : 7 Again , he limiteth a certain day , saying in David , To day , after so long a time ; as it is said , To day if ye will hear his voice , harden not your hearts .
4 : 8 For if Jesus had given them rest , then would he not afterward have spoken of another day .
4 : 9 There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God .
4 : 10 For he that is entered into his rest , he also hath ceased from his own works , as God did from his .
4 : 11 Let us labour therefore to enter into that rest , lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief .
4 : 12 For the word of God is quick , and powerful , and sharper than any twoedged sword , piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit , and of the joints and marrow , and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart .
4 : 13 Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight : but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do .
4 : 14 Seeing then that we have a great high priest , that is passed into the heavens , Jesus the Son of God , let us hold fast our profession .
4 : 15 For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities ; but was in all points tempted like as we are , yet without sin .
4 : 16 Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace , that we may obtain mercy , and find grace to help in time of need .
5 : 1 For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God , that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins : 5 : 2 Who can have compassion on the ignorant , and on them that are out of the way ; for that he himself also is compassed with infirmity .
5 : 3 And by reason hereof he ought , as for the people , so also for himself , to offer for sins .
5 : 4 And no man taketh this honour unto himself , but he that is called of God , as was Aaron .
5 : 5 So also Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest ; but he that said unto him , Thou art my Son , to day have I begotten thee .
5 : 6 As he saith also in another place , Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec .
5 : 7 Who in the days of his flesh , when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death , and was heard in that he feared ; 5 : 8 Though he were a Son , yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered ; 5 : 9 And being made perfect , he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him ; 5 : 10 Called of God an high priest after the order of Melchisedec .
5 : 11 Of whom we have many things to say , and hard to be uttered , seeing ye are dull of hearing .
5 : 12 For when for the time ye ought to be teachers , ye have need that one teach you again which be the first principles of the oracles of God ; and are become such as have need of milk , and not of strong meat .
5 : 13 For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness : for he is a babe .
5 : 14 But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age , even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil .
6 : 1 Therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ , let us go on unto perfection ; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works , and of faith toward God , 6 : 2 Of the doctrine of baptisms , and of laying on of hands , and of resurrection of the dead , and of eternal judgment .
6 : 3 And this will we do , if God permit .
6 : 4 For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened , and have tasted of the heavenly gift , and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost , 6 : 5 And have tasted the good word of God , and the powers of the world to come , 6 : 6 If they shall fall away , to renew them again unto repentance ; seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh , and put him to an open shame .
6 : 7 For the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upon it , and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is dressed , receiveth blessing from God : 6 : 8 But that which beareth thorns and briers is rejected , and is nigh unto cursing ; whose end is to be burned .
6 : 9 But , beloved , we are persuaded better things of you , and things that accompany salvation , though we thus speak .
6 : 10 For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labour of love , which ye have shewed toward his name , in that ye have ministered to the saints , and do minister .
6 : 11 And we desire that every one of you do shew the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end : 6 : 12 That ye be not slothful , but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises .
6 : 13 For when God made promise to Abraham , because he could swear by no greater , he sware by himself , 6 : 14 Saying , Surely blessing I will bless thee , and multiplying I will multiply thee .
6 : 15 And so , after he had patiently endured , he obtained the promise .
6 : 16 For men verily swear by the greater : and an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife .
6 : 17 Wherein God , willing more abundantly to shew unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel , confirmed it by an oath : 6 : 18 That by two immutable things , in which it was impossible for God to lie , we might have a strong consolation , who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us : 6 : 19 Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul , both sure and stedfast , and which entereth into that within the veil ; 6 : 20 Whither the forerunner is for us entered , even Jesus , made an high priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec .
7 : 1 For this Melchisedec , king of Salem , priest of the most high God , who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings , and blessed him ; 7 : 2 To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all ; first being by interpretation King of righteousness , and after that also King of Salem , which is , King of peace ; 7 : 3 Without father , without mother , without descent , having neither beginning of days , nor end of life ; but made like unto the Son of God ; abideth a priest continually .
7 : 4 Now consider how great this man was , unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils .
7 : 5 And verily they that are of the sons of Levi , who receive the office of the priesthood , have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law , that is , of their brethren , though they come out of the loins of Abraham : 7 : 6 But he whose descent is not counted from them received tithes of Abraham , and blessed him that had the promises .
7 : 7 And without all contradiction the less is blessed of the better .
7 : 8 And here men that die receive tithes ; but there he receiveth them , of whom it is witnessed that he liveth .
7 : 9 And as I may so say , Levi also , who receiveth tithes , payed tithes in Abraham .
7 : 10 For he was yet in the loins of his father , when Melchisedec met him .
7 : 11 If therefore perfection were by the Levitical priesthood , ( for under it the people received the law ,) what further need was there that another priest should rise after the order of Melchisedec , and not be called after the order of Aaron ?
7 : 12 For the priesthood being changed , there is made of necessity a change also of the law .
7 : 13 For he of whom these things are spoken pertaineth to another tribe , of which no man gave attendance at the altar .
7 : 14 For it is evident that our Lord sprang out of Juda ; of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood .
7 : 15 And it is yet far more evident : for that after the similitude of Melchisedec there ariseth another priest , 7 : 16 Who is made , not after the law of a carnal commandment , but after the power of an endless life .
7 : 17 For he testifieth , Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec .
7 : 18 For there is verily a disannulling of the commandment going before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof .
7 : 19 For the law made nothing perfect , but the bringing in of a better hope did ; by the which we draw nigh unto God .
7 : 20 And inasmuch as not without an oath he was made priest : 7 : 21 ( For those priests were made without an oath ; but this with an oath by him that said unto him , The Lord sware and will not repent , Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec :) 7 : 22 By so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament .
7 : 23 And they truly were many priests , because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death : 7 : 24 But this man , because he continueth ever , hath an unchangeable priesthood .
7 : 25 Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him , seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them .
7 : 26 For such an high priest became us , who is holy , harmless , undefiled , separate from sinners , and made higher than the heavens ; 7 : 27 Who needeth not daily , as those high priests , to offer up sacrifice , first for his own sins , and then for the people ' s : for this he did once , when he offered up himself .
7 : 28 For the law maketh men high priests which have infirmity ; but the word of the oath , which was since the law , maketh the Son , who is consecrated for evermore .
8 : 1 Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum : We have such an high priest , who is set on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens ; 8 : 2 A minister of the sanctuary , and of the true tabernacle , which the Lord pitched , and not man .
8 : 3 For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices : wherefore it is of necessity that this man have somewhat also to offer .
8 : 4 For if he were on earth , he should not be a priest , seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law : 8 : 5 Who serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things , as Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle : for , See , saith he , that thou make all things according to the pattern shewed to thee in the mount .
8 : 6 But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry , by how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant , which was established upon better promises .
8 : 7 For if that first covenant had been faultless , then should no place have been sought for the second .
8 : 8 For finding fault with them , he saith , Behold , the days come , saith the Lord , when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah : 8 : 9 Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt ; because they continued not in my covenant , and I regarded them not , saith the Lord .
8 : 10 For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days , saith the Lord ; I will put my laws into their mind , and write them in their hearts : and I will be to them a God , and they shall be to me a people : 8 : 11 And they shall not teach every man his neighbour , and every man his brother , saying , Know the Lord : for all shall know me , from the least to the greatest .
8 : 12 For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness , and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more .
8 : 13 In that he saith , A new covenant , he hath made the first old .
Now that which decayeth and waxeth old is ready to vanish away .
9 : 1 Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service , and a worldly sanctuary .
9 : 2 For there was a tabernacle made ; the first , wherein was the candlestick , and the table , and the shewbread ; which is called the sanctuary .
9 : 3 And after the second veil , the tabernacle which is called the Holiest of all ; 9 : 4 Which had the golden censer , and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold , wherein was the golden pot that had manna , and Aaron ' s rod that budded , and the tables of the covenant ; 9 : 5 And over it the cherubims of glory shadowing the mercyseat ; of which we cannot now speak particularly .
9 : 6 Now when these things were thus ordained , the priests went always into the first tabernacle , accomplishing the service of God .
9 : 7 But into the second went the high priest alone once every year , not without blood , which he offered for himself , and for the errors of the people : 9 : 8 The Holy Ghost this signifying , that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest , while as the first tabernacle was yet standing : 9 : 9 Which was a figure for the time then present , in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices , that could not make him that did the service perfect , as pertaining to the conscience ; 9 : 10 Which stood only in meats and drinks , and divers washings , and carnal ordinances , imposed on them until the time of reformation .
9 : 11 But Christ being come an high priest of good things to come , by a greater and more perfect tabernacle , not made with hands , that is to say , not of this building ; 9 : 12 Neither by the blood of goats and calves , but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place , having obtained eternal redemption for us .
9 : 13 For if the blood of bulls and of goats , and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean , sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh : 9 : 14 How much more shall the blood of Christ , who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God , purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God ?
9 : 15 And for this cause he is the mediator of the new testament , that by means of death , for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament , they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance .
9 : 16 For where a testament is , there must also of necessity be the death of the testator .
9 : 17 For a testament is of force after men are dead : otherwise it is of no strength at all while the testator liveth .
9 : 18 Whereupon neither the first testament was dedicated without blood .
9 : 19 For when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people according to the law , he took the blood of calves and of goats , with water , and scarlet wool , and hyssop , and sprinkled both the book , and all the people , 9 : 20 Saying , This is the blood of the testament which God hath enjoined unto you .
9 : 21 Moreover he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle , and all the vessels of the ministry .
9 : 22 And almost all things are by the law purged with blood ; and without shedding of blood is no remission .
9 : 23 It was therefore necessary that the patterns of things in the heavens should be purified with these ; but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these .
9 : 24 For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands , which are the figures of the true ; but into heaven itself , now to appear in the presence of God for us : 9 : 25 Nor yet that he should offer himself often , as the high priest entereth into the holy place every year with blood of others ; 9 : 26 For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world : but now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself .
9 : 27 And as it is appointed unto men once to die , but after this the judgment : 9 : 28 So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many ; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation .
10 : 1 For the law having a shadow of good things to come , and not the very image of the things , can never with those sacrifices which they offered year by year continually make the comers thereunto perfect .
10 : 2 For then would they not have ceased to be offered ?
because that the worshippers once purged should have had no more conscience of sins .
10 : 3 But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins every year .
10 : 4 For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins .
10 : 5 Wherefore when he cometh into the world , he saith , Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not , but a body hast thou prepared me : 10 : 6 In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin thou hast had no pleasure .
10 : 7 Then said I , Lo , I come ( in the volume of the book it is written of me ,) to do thy will , O God .
10 : 8 Above when he said , Sacrifice and offering and burnt offerings and offering for sin thou wouldest not , neither hadst pleasure therein ; which are offered by the law ; 10 : 9 Then said he , Lo , I come to do thy will , O God .
He taketh away the first , that he may establish the second .
10 : 10 By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all .
10 : 11 And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices , which can never take away sins : 10 : 12 But this man , after he had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever , sat down on the right hand of God ; 10 : 13 From henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool .
10 : 14 For by one offering he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified .
10 : 15 Whereof the Holy Ghost also is a witness to us : for after that he had said before , 10 : 16 This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days , saith the Lord , I will put my laws into their hearts , and in their minds will I write them ; 10 : 17 And their sins and iniquities will I remember no more .
10 : 18 Now where remission of these is , there is no more offering for sin .
10 : 19 Having therefore , brethren , boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus , 10 : 20 By a new and living way , which he hath consecrated for us , through the veil , that is to say , his flesh ; 10 : 21 And having an high priest over the house of God ; 10 : 22 Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith , having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience , and our bodies washed with pure water .
10 : 23 Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering ; ( for he is faithful that promised ;) 10 : 24 And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works : 10 : 25 Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together , as the manner of some is ; but exhorting one another : and so much the more , as ye see the day approaching .
10 : 26 For if we sin wilfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth , there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins , 10 : 27 But a certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation , which shall devour the adversaries .
10 : 28 He that despised Moses ' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses : 10 : 29 Of how much sorer punishment , suppose ye , shall he be thought worthy , who hath trodden under foot the Son of God , and hath counted the blood of the covenant , wherewith he was sanctified , an unholy thing , and hath done despite unto the Spirit of grace ?
10 : 30 For we know him that hath said , Vengeance belongeth unto me , I will recompense , saith the Lord .
And again , The Lord shall judge his people .
10 : 31 It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God .
10 : 32 But call to remembrance the former days , in which , after ye were illuminated , ye endured a great fight of afflictions ; 10 : 33 Partly , whilst ye were made a gazingstock both by reproaches and afflictions ; and partly , whilst ye became companions of them that were so used .
10 : 34 For ye had compassion of me in my bonds , and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods , knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and an enduring substance .
10 : 35 Cast not away therefore your confidence , which hath great recompence of reward .
10 : 36 For ye have need of patience , that , after ye have done the will of God , ye might receive the promise .
10 : 37 For yet a little while , and he that shall come will come , and will not tarry .
10 : 38 Now the just shall live by faith : but if any man draw back , my soul shall have no pleasure in him .
10 : 39 But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition ; but of them that believe to the saving of the soul .
11 : 1 Now faith is the substance of things hoped for , the evidence of things not seen .
11 : 2 For by it the elders obtained a good report .
11 : 3 Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God , so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear .
11 : 4 By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain , by which he obtained witness that he was righteous , God testifying of his gifts : and by it he being dead yet speaketh .
11 : 5 By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death ; and was not found , because God had translated him : for before his translation he had this testimony , that he pleased God .
11 : 6 But without faith it is impossible to please him : for he that cometh to God must believe that he is , and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him .
11 : 7 By faith Noah , being warned of God of things not seen as yet , moved with fear , prepared an ark to the saving of his house ; by the which he condemned the world , and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith .
11 : 8 By faith Abraham , when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance , obeyed ; and he went out , not knowing whither he went .
11 : 9 By faith he sojourned in the land of promise , as in a strange country , dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob , the heirs with him of the same promise : 11 : 10 For he looked for a city which hath foundations , whose builder and maker is God .
11 : 11 Through faith also Sara herself received strength to conceive seed , and was delivered of a child when she was past age , because she judged him faithful who had promised .
11 : 12 Therefore sprang there even of one , and him as good as dead , so many as the stars of the sky in multitude , and as the sand which is by the sea shore innumerable .
11 : 13 These all died in faith , not having received the promises , but having seen them afar off , and were persuaded of them , and embraced them , and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth .
11 : 14 For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country .
11 : 15 And truly , if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out , they might have had opportunity to have returned .
11 : 16 But now they desire a better country , that is , an heavenly : wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God : for he hath prepared for them a city .
11 : 17 By faith Abraham , when he was tried , offered up Isaac : and he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son , 11 : 18 Of whom it was said , That in Isaac shall thy seed be called : 11 : 19 Accounting that God was able to raise him up , even from the dead ; from whence also he received him in a figure .
11 : 20 By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come .
11 : 21 By faith Jacob , when he was a dying , blessed both the sons of Joseph ; and worshipped , leaning upon the top of his staff .
11 : 22 By faith Joseph , when he died , made mention of the departing of the children of Israel ; and gave commandment concerning his bones .
11 : 23 By faith Moses , when he was born , was hid three months of his parents , because they saw he was a proper child ; and they were not afraid of the king ' s commandment .
11 : 24 By faith Moses , when he was come to years , refused to be called the son of Pharaoh ' s daughter ; 11 : 25 Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God , than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season ; 11 : 26 Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt : for he had respect unto the recompence of the reward .
11 : 27 By faith he forsook Egypt , not fearing the wrath of the king : for he endured , as seeing him who is invisible .
11 : 28 Through faith he kept the passover , and the sprinkling of blood , lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them .
11 : 29 By faith they passed through the Red sea as by dry land : which the Egyptians assaying to do were drowned .
11 : 30 By faith the walls of Jericho fell down , after they were compassed about seven days .
11 : 31 By faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not , when she had received the spies with peace .
11 : 32 And what shall I more say ?
for the time would fail me to tell of Gedeon , and of Barak , and of Samson , and of Jephthae ; of David also , and Samuel , and of the prophets : 11 : 33 Who through faith subdued kingdoms , wrought righteousness , obtained promises , stopped the mouths of lions .
11 : 34 Quenched the violence of fire , escaped the edge of the sword , out of weakness were made strong , waxed valiant in fight , turned to flight the armies of the aliens .
11 : 35 Women received their dead raised to life again : and others were tortured , not accepting deliverance ; that they might obtain a better resurrection : 11 : 36 And others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings , yea , moreover of bonds and imprisonment : 11 : 37 They were stoned , they were sawn asunder , were tempted , were slain with the sword : they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins ; being destitute , afflicted , tormented ; 11 : 38 ( Of whom the world was not worthy :) they wandered in deserts , and in mountains , and in dens and caves of the earth .
11 : 39 And these all , having obtained a good report through faith , received not the promise : 11 : 40 God having provided some better thing for us , that they without us should not be made perfect .
12 : 1 Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses , let us lay aside every weight , and the sin which doth so easily beset us , and let us run with patience the race that is set before us , 12 : 2 Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith ; who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross , despising the shame , and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God .
12 : 3 For consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself , lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds .
12 : 4 Ye have not yet resisted unto blood , striving against sin .
12 : 5 And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children , My son , despise not thou the chastening of the Lord , nor faint when thou art rebuked of him : 12 : 6 For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth , and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth .
12 : 7 If ye endure chastening , God dealeth with you as with sons ; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not ?
12 : 8 But if ye be without chastisement , whereof all are partakers , then are ye bastards , and not sons .
12 : 9 Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us , and we gave them reverence : shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits , and live ?
12 : 10 For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure ; but he for our profit , that we might be partakers of his holiness .
12 : 11 Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous , but grievous : nevertheless afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby .
12 : 12 Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down , and the feeble knees ; 12 : 13 And make straight paths for your feet , lest that which is lame be turned out of the way ; but let it rather be healed .
12 : 14 Follow peace with all men , and holiness , without which no man shall see the Lord : 12 : 15 Looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God ; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you , and thereby many be defiled ; 12 : 16 Lest there be any fornicator , or profane person , as Esau , who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright .
12 : 17 For ye know how that afterward , when he would have inherited the blessing , he was rejected : for he found no place of repentance , though he sought it carefully with tears .
12 : 18 For ye are not come unto the mount that might be touched , and that burned with fire , nor unto blackness , and darkness , and tempest , 12 : 19 And the sound of a trumpet , and the voice of words ; which voice they that heard intreated that the word should not be spoken to them any more : 12 : 20 ( For they could not endure that which was commanded , And if so much as a beast touch the mountain , it shall be stoned , or thrust through with a dart : 12 : 21 And so terrible was the sight , that Moses said , I exceedingly fear and quake :) 12 : 22 But ye are come unto mount Sion , and unto the city of the living God , the heavenly Jerusalem , and to an innumerable company of angels , 12 : 23 To the general assembly and church of the firstborn , which are written in heaven , and to God the Judge of all , and to the spirits of just men made perfect , 12 : 24 And to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant , and to the blood of sprinkling , that speaketh better things than that of Abel .
12 : 25 See that ye refuse not him that speaketh .
For if they escaped not who refused him that spake on earth , much more shall not we escape , if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven : 12 : 26 Whose voice then shook the earth : but now he hath promised , saying , Yet once more I shake not the earth only , but also heaven .
12 : 27 And this word , Yet once more , signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken , as of things that are made , that those things which cannot be shaken may remain .
12 : 28 Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved , let us have grace , whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear : 12 : 29 For our God is a consuming fire .
13 : 1 Let brotherly love continue .
13 : 2 Be not forgetful to entertain strangers : for thereby some have entertained angels unawares .
13 : 3 Remember them that are in bonds , as bound with them ; and them which suffer adversity , as being yourselves also in the body .
13 : 4 Marriage is honourable in all , and the bed undefiled : but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge .
13 : 5 Let your conversation be without covetousness ; and be content with such things as ye have : for he hath said , I will never leave thee , nor forsake thee .
13 : 6 So that we may boldly say , The Lord is my helper , and I will not fear what man shall do unto me .
13 : 7 Remember them which have the rule over you , who have spoken unto you the word of God : whose faith follow , considering the end of their conversation .
13 : 8 Jesus Christ the same yesterday , and to day , and for ever .
13 : 9 Be not carried about with divers and strange doctrines .
For it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace ; not with meats , which have not profited them that have been occupied therein .
13 : 10 We have an altar , whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle .
13 : 11 For the bodies of those beasts , whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin , are burned without the camp .
13 : 12 Wherefore Jesus also , that he might sanctify the people with his own blood , suffered without the gate .
13 : 13 Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp , bearing his reproach .
13 : 14 For here have we no continuing city , but we seek one to come .
13 : 15 By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually , that is , the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name .
13 : 16 But to do good and to communicate forget not : for with such sacrifices God is well pleased .
13 : 17 Obey them that have the rule over you , and submit yourselves : for they watch for your souls , as they that must give account , that they may do it with joy , and not with grief : for that is unprofitable for you .
13 : 18 Pray for us : for we trust we have a good conscience , in all things willing to live honestly .
13 : 19 But I beseech you the rather to do this , that I may be restored to you the sooner .
13 : 20 Now the God of peace , that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus , that great shepherd of the sheep , through the blood of the everlasting covenant , 13 : 21 Make you perfect in every good work to do his will , working in you that which is wellpleasing in his sight , through Jesus Christ ; to whom be glory for ever and ever .
Amen .
13 : 22 And I beseech you , brethren , suffer the word of exhortation : for I have written a letter unto you in few words .
13 : 23 Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty ; with whom , if he come shortly , I will see you .
13 : 24 Salute all them that have the rule over you , and all the saints .
They of Italy salute you .
13 : 25 Grace be with you all .
Amen .
The General Epistle of James
1 : 1 James , a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ , to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad , greeting .
1 : 2 My brethren , count it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations ; 1 : 3 Knowing this , that the trying of your faith worketh patience .
1 : 4 But let patience have her perfect work , that ye may be perfect and entire , wanting nothing .
1 : 5 If any of you lack wisdom , let him ask of God , that giveth to all men liberally , and upbraideth not ; and it shall be given him .
1 : 6 But let him ask in faith , nothing wavering .
For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed .
1 : 7 For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord .
1 : 8 A double minded man is unstable in all his ways .
1 : 9 Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted : 1 : 10 But the rich , in that he is made low : because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away .
1 : 11 For the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat , but it withereth the grass , and the flower thereof falleth , and the grace of the fashion of it perisheth : so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways .
1 : 12 Blessed is the man that endureth temptation : for when he is tried , he shall receive the crown of life , which the Lord hath promised to them that love him .
1 : 13 Let no man say when he is tempted , I am tempted of God : for God cannot be tempted with evil , neither tempteth he any man : 1 : 14 But every man is tempted , when he is drawn away of his own lust , and enticed .
1 : 15 Then when lust hath conceived , it bringeth forth sin : and sin , when it is finished , bringeth forth death .
1 : 16 Do not err , my beloved brethren .
1 : 17 Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above , and cometh down from the Father of lights , with whom is no variableness , neither shadow of turning .
1 : 18 Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth , that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures .
1 : 19 Wherefore , my beloved brethren , let every man be swift to hear , slow to speak , slow to wrath : 1 : 20 For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God .
1 : 21 Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness , and receive with meekness the engrafted word , which is able to save your souls .
1 : 22 But be ye doers of the word , and not hearers only , deceiving your own selves .
1 : 23 For if any be a hearer of the word , and not a doer , he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass : 1 : 24 For he beholdeth himself , and goeth his way , and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was .
1 : 25 But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty , and continueth therein , he being not a forgetful hearer , but a doer of the work , this man shall be blessed in his deed .
1 : 26 If any man among you seem to be religious , and bridleth not his tongue , but deceiveth his own heart , this man ' s religion is vain .
1 : 27 Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this , To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction , and to keep himself unspotted from the world .
2 : 1 My brethren , have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ , the Lord of glory , with respect of persons .
2 : 2 For if there come unto your assembly a man with a gold ring , in goodly apparel , and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment ; 2 : 3 And ye have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing , and say unto him , Sit thou here in a good place ; and say to the poor , Stand thou there , or sit here under my footstool : 2 : 4 Are ye not then partial in yourselves , and are become judges of evil thoughts ?
2 : 5 Hearken , my beloved brethren , Hath not God chosen the poor of this world rich in faith , and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him ?
2 : 6 But ye have despised the poor .
Do not rich men oppress you , and draw you before the judgment seats ?
2 : 7 Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by the which ye are called ?
2 : 8 If ye fulfil the royal law according to the scripture , Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself , ye do well : 2 : 9 But if ye have respect to persons , ye commit sin , and are convinced of the law as transgressors .
2 : 10 For whosoever shall keep the whole law , and yet offend in one point , he is guilty of all .
2 : 11 For he that said , Do not commit adultery , said also , Do not kill .
Now if thou commit no adultery , yet if thou kill , thou art become a transgressor of the law .
2 : 12 So speak ye , and so do , as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty .
2 : 13 For he shall have judgment without mercy , that hath shewed no mercy ; and mercy rejoiceth against judgment .
2 : 14 What doth it profit , my brethren , though a man say he hath faith , and have not works ?
can faith save him ?
2 : 15 If a brother or sister be naked , and destitute of daily food , 2 : 16 And one of you say unto them , Depart in peace , be ye warmed and filled ; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body ; what doth it profit ?
2 : 17 Even so faith , if it hath not works , is dead , being alone .
2 : 18 Yea , a man may say , Thou hast faith , and I have works : shew me thy faith without thy works , and I will shew thee my faith by my works .
2 : 19 Thou believest that there is one God ; thou doest well : the devils also believe , and tremble .
2 : 20 But wilt thou know , O vain man , that faith without works is dead ?
2 : 21 Was not Abraham our father justified by works , when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar ?
2 : 22 Seest thou how faith wrought with his works , and by works was faith made perfect ?
2 : 23 And the scripture was fulfilled which saith , Abraham believed God , and it was imputed unto him for righteousness : and he was called the Friend of God .
2 : 24 Ye see then how that by works a man is justified , and not by faith only .
2 : 25 Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works , when she had received the messengers , and had sent them out another way ?
2 : 26 For as the body without the spirit is dead , so faith without works is dead also .
3 : 1 My brethren , be not many masters , knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation .
3 : 2 For in many things we offend all .
If any man offend not in word , the same is a perfect man , and able also to bridle the whole body .
3 : 3 Behold , we put bits in the horses ' mouths , that they may obey us ; and we turn about their whole body .
3 : 4 Behold also the ships , which though they be so great , and are driven of fierce winds , yet are they turned about with a very small helm , whithersoever the governor listeth .
3 : 5 Even so the tongue is a little member , and boasteth great things .
Behold , how great a matter a little fire kindleth !
3 : 6 And the tongue is a fire , a world of iniquity : so is the tongue among our members , that it defileth the whole body , and setteth on fire the course of nature ; and it is set on fire of hell .
3 : 7 For every kind of beasts , and of birds , and of serpents , and of things in the sea , is tamed , and hath been tamed of mankind : 3 : 8 But the tongue can no man tame ; it is an unruly evil , full of deadly poison .
3 : 9 Therewith bless we God , even the Father ; and therewith curse we men , which are made after the similitude of God .
3 : 10 Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing .
My brethren , these things ought not so to be .
3 : 11 Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter ?
3 : 12 Can the fig tree , my brethren , bear olive berries ?
either a vine , figs ?
so can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh .
3 : 13 Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you ?
let him shew out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom .
3 : 14 But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts , glory not , and lie not against the truth .
3 : 15 This wisdom descendeth not from above , but is earthly , sensual , devilish .
3 : 16 For where envying and strife is , there is confusion and every evil work .
3 : 17 But the wisdom that is from above is first pure , then peaceable , gentle , and easy to be intreated , full of mercy and good fruits , without partiality , and without hypocrisy .
3 : 18 And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace .
4 : 1 From whence come wars and fightings among you ?
come they not hence , even of your lusts that war in your members ?
4 : 2 Ye lust , and have not : ye kill , and desire to have , and cannot obtain : ye fight and war , yet ye have not , because ye ask not .
4 : 3 Ye ask , and receive not , because ye ask amiss , that ye may consume it upon your lusts .
4 : 4 Ye adulterers and adulteresses , know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God ?
whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God .
4 : 5 Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain , The spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy ?
4 : 6 But he giveth more grace .
Wherefore he saith , God resisteth the proud , but giveth grace unto the humble .
4 : 7 Submit yourselves therefore to God .
Resist the devil , and he will flee from you .
4 : 8 Draw nigh to God , and he will draw nigh to you .
Cleanse your hands , ye sinners ; and purify your hearts , ye double minded .
4 : 9 Be afflicted , and mourn , and weep : let your laughter be turned to mourning , and your joy to heaviness .
4 : 10 Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord , and he shall lift you up .
4 : 11 Speak not evil one of another , brethren .
He that speaketh evil of his brother , and judgeth his brother , speaketh evil of the law , and judgeth the law : but if thou judge the law , thou art not a doer of the law , but a judge .
4 : 12 There is one lawgiver , who is able to save and to destroy : who art thou that judgest another ?
4 : 13 Go to now , ye that say , To day or to morrow we will go into such a city , and continue there a year , and buy and sell , and get gain : 4 : 14 Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow .
For what is your life ?
It is even a vapour , that appeareth for a little time , and then vanisheth away .
4 : 15 For that ye ought to say , If the Lord will , we shall live , and do this , or that .
4 : 16 But now ye rejoice in your boastings : all such rejoicing is evil .
4 : 17 Therefore to him that knoweth to do good , and doeth it not , to him it is sin .
5 : 1 Go to now , ye rich men , weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you .
5 : 2 Your riches are corrupted , and your garments are motheaten .
5 : 3 Your gold and silver is cankered ; and the rust of them shall be a witness against you , and shall eat your flesh as it were fire .
Ye have heaped treasure together for the last days .
5 : 4 Behold , the hire of the labourers who have reaped down your fields , which is of you kept back by fraud , crieth : and the cries of them which have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of sabaoth .
5 : 5 Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth , and been wanton ; ye have nourished your hearts , as in a day of slaughter .
5 : 6 Ye have condemned and killed the just ; and he doth not resist you .
5 : 7 Be patient therefore , brethren , unto the coming of the Lord .
Behold , the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth , and hath long patience for it , until he receive the early and latter rain .
5 : 8 Be ye also patient ; stablish your hearts : for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh .
5 : 9 Grudge not one against another , brethren , lest ye be condemned : behold , the judge standeth before the door .
5 : 10 Take , my brethren , the prophets , who have spoken in the name of the Lord , for an example of suffering affliction , and of patience .
5 : 11 Behold , we count them happy which endure .
Ye have heard of the patience of Job , and have seen the end of the Lord ; that the Lord is very pitiful , and of tender mercy .
5 : 12 But above all things , my brethren , swear not , neither by heaven , neither by the earth , neither by any other oath : but let your yea be yea ; and your nay , nay ; lest ye fall into condemnation .
5 : 13 Is any among you afflicted ?
let him pray .
Is any merry ?
let him sing psalms .
5 : 14 Is any sick among you ?
let him call for the elders of the church ; and let them pray over him , anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord : 5 : 15 And the prayer of faith shall save the sick , and the Lord shall raise him up ; and if he have committed sins , they shall be forgiven him .
5 : 16 Confess your faults one to another , and pray one for another , that ye may be healed .
The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much .
5 : 17 Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are , and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain : and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months .
5 : 18 And he prayed again , and the heaven gave rain , and the earth brought forth her fruit .
5 : 19 Brethren , if any of you do err from the truth , and one convert him ; 5 : 20 Let him know , that he which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death , and shall hide a multitude of sins .
The First Epistle General of Peter
1 : 1 Peter , an apostle of Jesus Christ , to the strangers scattered throughout Pontus , Galatia , Cappadocia , Asia , and Bithynia , 1 : 2 Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father , through sanctification of the Spirit , unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ : Grace unto you , and peace , be multiplied .
1 : 3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ , which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead , 1 : 4 To an inheritance incorruptible , and undefiled , and that fadeth not away , reserved in heaven for you , 1 : 5 Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time .
1 : 6 Wherein ye greatly rejoice , though now for a season , if need be , ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations : 1 : 7 That the trial of your faith , being much more precious than of gold that perisheth , though it be tried with fire , might be found unto praise and honour and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ : 1 : 8 Whom having not seen , ye love ; in whom , though now ye see him not , yet believing , ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory : 1 : 9 Receiving the end of your faith , even the salvation of your souls .
1 : 10 Of which salvation the prophets have enquired and searched diligently , who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you : 1 : 11 Searching what , or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify , when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ , and the glory that should follow .
1 : 12 Unto whom it was revealed , that not unto themselves , but unto us they did minister the things , which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven ; which things the angels desire to look into .
1 : 13 Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind , be sober , and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ ; 1 : 14 As obedient children , not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance : 1 : 15 But as he which hath called you is holy , so be ye holy in all manner of conversation ; 1 : 16 Because it is written , Be ye holy ; for I am holy .
1 : 17 And if ye call on the Father , who without respect of persons judgeth according to every man ' s work , pass the time of your sojourning here in fear : 1 : 18 Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things , as silver and gold , from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers ; 1 : 19 But with the precious blood of Christ , as of a lamb without blemish and without spot : 1 : 20 Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world , but was manifest in these last times for you , 1 : 21 Who by him do believe in God , that raised him up from the dead , and gave him glory ; that your faith and hope might be in God .
1 : 22 Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren , see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently : 1 : 23 Being born again , not of corruptible seed , but of incorruptible , by the word of God , which liveth and abideth for ever .
1 : 24 For all flesh is as grass , and all the glory of man as the flower of grass .
The grass withereth , and the flower thereof falleth away : 1 : 25 But the word of the Lord endureth for ever .
And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you .
2 : 1 Wherefore laying aside all malice , and all guile , and hypocrisies , and envies , all evil speakings , 2 : 2 As newborn babes , desire the sincere milk of the word , that ye may grow thereby : 2 : 3 If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious .
2 : 4 To whom coming , as unto a living stone , disallowed indeed of men , but chosen of God , and precious , 2 : 5 Ye also , as lively stones , are built up a spiritual house , an holy priesthood , to offer up spiritual sacrifices , acceptable to God by Jesus Christ .
2 : 6 Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture , Behold , I lay in Sion a chief corner stone , elect , precious : and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded .
2 : 7 Unto you therefore which believe he is precious : but unto them which be disobedient , the stone which the builders disallowed , the same is made the head of the corner , 2 : 8 And a stone of stumbling , and a rock of offence , even to them which stumble at the word , being disobedient : whereunto also they were appointed .
2 : 9 But ye are a chosen generation , a royal priesthood , an holy nation , a peculiar people ; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light ; 2 : 10 Which in time past were not a people , but are now the people of God : which had not obtained mercy , but now have obtained mercy .
2 : 11 Dearly beloved , I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims , abstain from fleshly lusts , which war against the soul ; 2 : 12 Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles : that , whereas they speak against you as evildoers , they may by your good works , which they shall behold , glorify God in the day of visitation .
2 : 13 Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord ' s sake : whether it be to the king , as supreme ; 2 : 14 Or unto governors , as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers , and for the praise of them that do well .
2 : 15 For so is the will of God , that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men : 2 : 16 As free , and not using your liberty for a cloke of maliciousness , but as the servants of God .
2 : 17 Honour all men .
Love the brotherhood .
Fear God .
Honour the king .
2 : 18 Servants , be subject to your masters with all fear ; not only to the good and gentle , but also to the froward .
2 : 19 For this is thankworthy , if a man for conscience toward God endure grief , suffering wrongfully .
2 : 20 For what glory is it , if , when ye be buffeted for your faults , ye shall take it patiently ?
but if , when ye do well , and suffer for it , ye take it patiently , this is acceptable with God .
2 : 21 For even hereunto were ye called : because Christ also suffered for us , leaving us an example , that ye should follow his steps : 2 : 22 Who did no sin , neither was guile found in his mouth : 2 : 23 Who , when he was reviled , reviled not again ; when he suffered , he threatened not ; but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously : 2 : 24 Who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree , that we , being dead to sins , should live unto righteousness : by whose stripes ye were healed .
2 : 25 For ye were as sheep going astray ; but are now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls .
3 : 1 Likewise , ye wives , be in subjection to your own husbands ; that , if any obey not the word , they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives ; 3 : 2 While they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear .
3 : 3 Whose adorning let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair , and of wearing of gold , or of putting on of apparel ; 3 : 4 But let it be the hidden man of the heart , in that which is not corruptible , even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit , which is in the sight of God of great price .
3 : 5 For after this manner in the old time the holy women also , who trusted in God , adorned themselves , being in subjection unto their own husbands : 3 : 6 Even as Sara obeyed Abraham , calling him lord : whose daughters ye are , as long as ye do well , and are not afraid with any amazement .
3 : 7 Likewise , ye husbands , dwell with them according to knowledge , giving honour unto the wife , as unto the weaker vessel , and as being heirs together of the grace of life ; that your prayers be not hindered .
3 : 8 Finally , be ye all of one mind , having compassion one of another , love as brethren , be pitiful , be courteous : 3 : 9 Not rendering evil for evil , or railing for railing : but contrariwise blessing ; knowing that ye are thereunto called , that ye should inherit a blessing .
3 : 10 For he that will love life , and see good days , let him refrain his tongue from evil , and his lips that they speak no guile : 3 : 11 Let him eschew evil , and do good ; let him seek peace , and ensue it .
3 : 12 For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous , and his ears are open unto their prayers : but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil .
3 : 13 And who is he that will harm you , if ye be followers of that which is good ?
3 : 14 But and if ye suffer for righteousness ' sake , happy are ye : and be not afraid of their terror , neither be troubled ; 3 : 15 But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts : and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear : 3 : 16 Having a good conscience ; that , whereas they speak evil of you , as of evildoers , they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ .
3 : 17 For it is better , if the will of God be so , that ye suffer for well doing , than for evil doing .
3 : 18 For Christ also hath once suffered for sins , the just for the unjust , that he might bring us to God , being put to death in the flesh , but quickened by the Spirit : 3 : 19 By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison ; 3 : 20 Which sometime were disobedient , when once the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah , while the ark was a preparing , wherein few , that is , eight souls were saved by water .
3 : 21 The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us ( not the putting away of the filth of the flesh , but the answer of a good conscience toward God ,) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ : 3 : 22 Who is gone into heaven , and is on the right hand of God ; angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him .
4 : 1 Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh , arm yourselves likewise with the same mind : for he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin ; 4 : 2 That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men , but to the will of God .
4 : 3 For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles , when we walked in lasciviousness , lusts , excess of wine , revellings , banquetings , and abominable idolatries : 4 : 4 Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot , speaking evil of you : 4 : 5 Who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead .
4 : 6 For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead , that they might be judged according to men in the flesh , but live according to God in the spirit .
4 : 7 But the end of all things is at hand : be ye therefore sober , and watch unto prayer .
4 : 8 And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves : for charity shall cover the multitude of sins .
4 : 9 Use hospitality one to another without grudging .
4 : 10 As every man hath received the gift , even so minister the same one to another , as good stewards of the manifold grace of God .
4 : 11 If any man speak , let him speak as the oracles of God ; if any man minister , let him do it as of the ability which God giveth : that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ , to whom be praise and dominion for ever and ever .
Amen .
4 : 12 Beloved , think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you , as though some strange thing happened unto you : 4 : 13 But rejoice , inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ ' s sufferings ; that , when his glory shall be revealed , ye may be glad also with exceeding joy .
4 : 14 If ye be reproached for the name of Christ , happy are ye ; for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you : on their part he is evil spoken of , but on your part he is glorified .
4 : 15 But let none of you suffer as a murderer , or as a thief , or as an evildoer , or as a busybody in other men ' s matters .
4 : 16 Yet if any man suffer as a Christian , let him not be ashamed ; but let him glorify God on this behalf .
4 : 17 For the time is come that judgment must begin at the house of God : and if it first begin at us , what shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God ?
4 : 18 And if the righteous scarcely be saved , where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear ?
4 : 19 Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him in well doing , as unto a faithful Creator .
5 : 1 The elders which are among you I exhort , who am also an elder , and a witness of the sufferings of Christ , and also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed : 5 : 2 Feed the flock of God which is among you , taking the oversight thereof , not by constraint , but willingly ; not for filthy lucre , but of a ready mind ; 5 : 3 Neither as being lords over God ' s heritage , but being ensamples to the flock .
5 : 4 And when the chief Shepherd shall appear , ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away .
5 : 5 Likewise , ye younger , submit yourselves unto the elder .
Yea , all of you be subject one to another , and be clothed with humility : for God resisteth the proud , and giveth grace to the humble .
5 : 6 Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God , that he may exalt you in due time : 5 : 7 Casting all your care upon him ; for he careth for you .
5 : 8 Be sober , be vigilant ; because your adversary the devil , as a roaring lion , walketh about , seeking whom he may devour : 5 : 9 Whom resist stedfast in the faith , knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world .
5 : 10 But the God of all grace , who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus , after that ye have suffered a while , make you perfect , stablish , strengthen , settle you .
5 : 11 To him be glory and dominion for ever and ever .
Amen .
5 : 12 By Silvanus , a faithful brother unto you , as I suppose , I have written briefly , exhorting , and testifying that this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand .
5 : 13 The church that is at Babylon , elected together with you , saluteth you ; and so doth Marcus my son .
5 : 14 Greet ye one another with a kiss of charity .
Peace be with you all that are in Christ Jesus .
Amen .
The Second General Epistle of Peter
1 : 1 Simon Peter , a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ , to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Saviour Jesus Christ : 1 : 2 Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God , and of Jesus our Lord , 1 : 3 According as his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness , through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue : 1 : 4 Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises : that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature , having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust .
1 : 5 And beside this , giving all diligence , add to your faith virtue ; and to virtue knowledge ; 1 : 6 And to knowledge temperance ; and to temperance patience ; and to patience godliness ; 1 : 7 And to godliness brotherly kindness ; and to brotherly kindness charity .
1 : 8 For if these things be in you , and abound , they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ .
1 : 9 But he that lacketh these things is blind , and cannot see afar off , and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins .
1 : 10 Wherefore the rather , brethren , give diligence to make your calling and election sure : for if ye do these things , ye shall never fall : 1 : 11 For so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ .
1 : 12 Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things , though ye know them , and be established in the present truth .
1 : 13 Yea , I think it meet , as long as I am in this tabernacle , to stir you up by putting you in remembrance ; 1 : 14 Knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle , even as our Lord Jesus Christ hath shewed me .
1 : 15 Moreover I will endeavour that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance .
1 : 16 For we have not followed cunningly devised fables , when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ , but were eyewitnesses of his majesty .
1 : 17 For he received from God the Father honour and glory , when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory , This is my beloved Son , in whom I am well pleased .
1 : 18 And this voice which came from heaven we heard , when we were with him in the holy mount .
1 : 19 We have also a more sure word of prophecy ; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed , as unto a light that shineth in a dark place , until the day dawn , and the day star arise in your hearts : 1 : 20 Knowing this first , that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation .
1 : 21 For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man : but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost .
2 : 1 But there were false prophets also among the people , even as there shall be false teachers among you , who privily shall bring in damnable heresies , even denying the Lord that bought them , and bring upon themselves swift destruction .
2 : 2 And many shall follow their pernicious ways ; by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of .
2 : 3 And through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you : whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not , and their damnation slumbereth not .
2 : 4 For if God spared not the angels that sinned , but cast them down to hell , and delivered them into chains of darkness , to be reserved unto judgment ; 2 : 5 And spared not the old world , but saved Noah the eighth person , a preacher of righteousness , bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly ; 2 : 6 And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrha into ashes condemned them with an overthrow , making them an ensample unto those that after should live ungodly ; 2 : 7 And delivered just Lot , vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked : 2 : 8 ( For that righteous man dwelling among them , in seeing and hearing , vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds ;) 2 : 9 The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations , and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished : 2 : 10 But chiefly them that walk after the flesh in the lust of uncleanness , and despise government .
Presumptuous are they , selfwilled , they are not afraid to speak evil of dignities .
2 : 11 Whereas angels , which are greater in power and might , bring not railing accusation against them before the Lord .
2 : 12 But these , as natural brute beasts , made to be taken and destroyed , speak evil of the things that they understand not ; and shall utterly perish in their own corruption ; 2 : 13 And shall receive the reward of unrighteousness , as they that count it pleasure to riot in the day time .
Spots they are and blemishes , sporting themselves with their own deceivings while they feast with you ; 2 : 14 Having eyes full of adultery , and that cannot cease from sin ; beguiling unstable souls : an heart they have exercised with covetous practices ; cursed children : 2 : 15 Which have forsaken the right way , and are gone astray , following the way of Balaam the son of Bosor , who loved the wages of unrighteousness ; 2 : 16 But was rebuked for his iniquity : the dumb ass speaking with man ' s voice forbad the madness of the prophet .
2 : 17 These are wells without water , clouds that are carried with a tempest ; to whom the mist of darkness is reserved for ever .
2 : 18 For when they speak great swelling words of vanity , they allure through the lusts of the flesh , through much wantonness , those that were clean escaped from them who live in error .
2 : 19 While they promise them liberty , they themselves are the servants of corruption : for of whom a man is overcome , of the same is he brought in bondage .
2 : 20 For if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ , they are again entangled therein , and overcome , the latter end is worse with them than the beginning .
2 : 21 For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness , than , after they have known it , to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them .
2 : 22 But it is happened unto them according to the true proverb , The dog is turned to his own vomit again ; and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire .
3 : 1 This second epistle , beloved , I now write unto you ; in both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance : 3 : 2 That ye may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets , and of the commandment of us the apostles of the Lord and Saviour : 3 : 3 Knowing this first , that there shall come in the last days scoffers , walking after their own lusts , 3 : 4 And saying , Where is the promise of his coming ?
for since the fathers fell asleep , all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation .
3 : 5 For this they willingly are ignorant of , that by the word of God the heavens were of old , and the earth standing out of the water and in the water : 3 : 6 Whereby the world that then was , being overflowed with water , perished : 3 : 7 But the heavens and the earth , which are now , by the same word are kept in store , reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men .
3 : 8 But , beloved , be not ignorant of this one thing , that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years , and a thousand years as one day .
3 : 9 The Lord is not slack concerning his promise , as some men count slackness ; but is longsuffering to us - ward , not willing that any should perish , but that all should come to repentance .
3 : 10 But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night ; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise , and the elements shall melt with fervent heat , the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up .
3 : 11 Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved , what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness , 3 : 12 Looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of God , wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved , and the elements shall melt with fervent heat ?
3 : 13 Nevertheless we , according to his promise , look for new heavens and a new earth , wherein dwelleth righteousness .
3 : 14 Wherefore , beloved , seeing that ye look for such things , be diligent that ye may be found of him in peace , without spot , and blameless .
3 : 15 And account that the longsuffering of our Lord is salvation ; even as our beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto him hath written unto you ; 3 : 16 As also in all his epistles , speaking in them of these things ; in which are some things hard to be understood , which they that are unlearned and unstable wrest , as they do also the other scriptures , unto their own destruction .
3 : 17 Ye therefore , beloved , seeing ye know these things before , beware lest ye also , being led away with the error of the wicked , fall from your own stedfastness .
3 : 18 But grow in grace , and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ .
To him be glory both now and for ever .
Amen .
The First Epistle General of John
1 : 1 That which was from the beginning , which we have heard , which we have seen with our eyes , which we have looked upon , and our hands have handled , of the Word of life ; 1 : 2 ( For the life was manifested , and we have seen it , and bear witness , and shew unto you that eternal life , which was with the Father , and was manifested unto us ;) 1 : 3 That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you , that ye also may have fellowship with us : and truly our fellowship is with the Father , and with his Son Jesus Christ .
1 : 4 And these things write we unto you , that your joy may be full .
1 : 5 This then is the message which we have heard of him , and declare unto you , that God is light , and in him is no darkness at all .
1 : 6 If we say that we have fellowship with him , and walk in darkness , we lie , and do not the truth : 1 : 7 But if we walk in the light , as he is in the light , we have fellowship one with another , and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin .
1 : 8 If we say that we have no sin , we deceive ourselves , and the truth is not in us .
1 : 9 If we confess our sins , he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins , and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness .
1 : 10 If we say that we have not sinned , we make him a liar , and his word is not in us .
2 : 1 My little children , these things write I unto you , that ye sin not .
And if any man sin , we have an advocate with the Father , Jesus Christ the righteous : 2 : 2 And he is the propitiation for our sins : and not for our ' s only , but also for the sins of the whole world .
2 : 3 And hereby we do know that we know him , if we keep his commandments .
2 : 4 He that saith , I know him , and keepeth not his commandments , is a liar , and the truth is not in him .
2 : 5 But whoso keepeth his word , in him verily is the love of God perfected : hereby know we that we are in him .
2 : 6 He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also so to walk , even as he walked .
2 : 7 Brethren , I write no new commandment unto you , but an old commandment which ye had from the beginning .
The old commandment is the word which ye have heard from the beginning .
2 : 8 Again , a new commandment I write unto you , which thing is true in him and in you : because the darkness is past , and the true light now shineth .
2 : 9 He that saith he is in the light , and hateth his brother , is in darkness even until now .
2 : 10 He that loveth his brother abideth in the light , and there is none occasion of stumbling in him .
2 : 11 But he that hateth his brother is in darkness , and walketh in darkness , and knoweth not whither he goeth , because that darkness hath blinded his eyes .
2 : 12 I write unto you , little children , because your sins are forgiven you for his name ' s sake .
2 : 13 I write unto you , fathers , because ye have known him that is from the beginning .
I write unto you , young men , because ye have overcome the wicked one .
I write unto you , little children , because ye have known the Father .
2 : 14 I have written unto you , fathers , because ye have known him that is from the beginning .
I have written unto you , young men , because ye are strong , and the word of God abideth in you , and ye have overcome the wicked one .
2 : 15 Love not the world , neither the things that are in the world .
If any man love the world , the love of the Father is not in him .
2 : 16 For all that is in the world , the lust of the flesh , and the lust of the eyes , and the pride of life , is not of the Father , but is of the world .
2 : 17 And the world passeth away , and the lust thereof : but he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever .
2 : 18 Little children , it is the last time : and as ye have heard that antichrist shall come , even now are there many antichrists ; whereby we know that it is the last time .
2 : 19 They went out from us , but they were not of us ; for if they had been of us , they would no doubt have continued with us : but they went out , that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us .
2 : 20 But ye have an unction from the Holy One , and ye know all things .
2 : 21 I have not written unto you because ye know not the truth , but because ye know it , and that no lie is of the truth .
2 : 22 Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ ?
He is antichrist , that denieth the Father and the Son .
2 : 23 Whosoever denieth the Son , the same hath not the Father : he that acknowledgeth the Son hath the Father also .
2 : 24 Let that therefore abide in you , which ye have heard from the beginning .
If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you , ye also shall continue in the Son , and in the Father .
2 : 25 And this is the promise that he hath promised us , even eternal life .
2 : 26 These things have I written unto you concerning them that seduce you .
2 : 27 But the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you , and ye need not that any man teach you : but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things , and is truth , and is no lie , and even as it hath taught you , ye shall abide in him .
2 : 28 And now , little children , abide in him ; that , when he shall appear , we may have confidence , and not be ashamed before him at his coming .
2 : 29 If ye know that he is righteous , ye know that every one that doeth righteousness is born of him .
3 : 1 Behold , what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us , that we should be called the sons of God : therefore the world knoweth us not , because it knew him not .
3 : 2 Beloved , now are we the sons of God , and it doth not yet appear what we shall be : but we know that , when he shall appear , we shall be like him ; for we shall see him as he is .
3 : 3 And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself , even as he is pure .
3 : 4 Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law : for sin is the transgression of the law .
3 : 5 And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins ; and in him is no sin .
3 : 6 Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not : whosoever sinneth hath not seen him , neither known him .
3 : 7 Little children , let no man deceive you : he that doeth righteousness is righteous , even as he is righteous .
3 : 8 He that committeth sin is of the devil ; for the devil sinneth from the beginning .
For this purpose the Son of God was manifested , that he might destroy the works of the devil .
3 : 9 Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin ; for his seed remaineth in him : and he cannot sin , because he is born of God .
3 : 10 In this the children of God are manifest , and the children of the devil : whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God , neither he that loveth not his brother .
3 : 11 For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning , that we should love one another .
3 : 12 Not as Cain , who was of that wicked one , and slew his brother .
And wherefore slew he him ?
Because his own works were evil , and his brother ' s righteous .
3 : 13 Marvel not , my brethren , if the world hate you .
3 : 14 We know that we have passed from death unto life , because we love the brethren .
He that loveth not his brother abideth in death .
3 : 15 Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer : and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him .
3 : 16 Hereby perceive we the love of God , because he laid down his life for us : and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren .
3 : 17 But whoso hath this world ' s good , and seeth his brother have need , and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him , how dwelleth the love of God in him ?
3 : 18 My little children , let us not love in word , neither in tongue ; but in deed and in truth .
3 : 19 And hereby we know that we are of the truth , and shall assure our hearts before him .
3 : 20 For if our heart condemn us , God is greater than our heart , and knoweth all things .
3 : 21 Beloved , if our heart condemn us not , then have we confidence toward God .
3 : 22 And whatsoever we ask , we receive of him , because we keep his commandments , and do those things that are pleasing in his sight .
3 : 23 And this is his commandment , That we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ , and love one another , as he gave us commandment .
3 : 24 And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him , and he in him .
And hereby we know that he abideth in us , by the Spirit which he hath given us .
4 : 1 Beloved , believe not every spirit , but try the spirits whether they are of God : because many false prophets are gone out into the world .
4 : 2 Hereby know ye the Spirit of God : Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God : 4 : 3 And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God : and this is that spirit of antichrist , whereof ye have heard that it should come ; and even now already is it in the world .
4 : 4 Ye are of God , little children , and have overcome them : because greater is he that is in you , than he that is in the world .
4 : 5 They are of the world : therefore speak they of the world , and the world heareth them .
4 : 6 We are of God : he that knoweth God heareth us ; he that is not of God heareth not us .
Hereby know we the spirit of truth , and the spirit of error .
4 : 7 Beloved , let us love one another : for love is of God ; and every one that loveth is born of God , and knoweth God .
4 : 8 He that loveth not knoweth not God ; for God is love .
4 : 9 In this was manifested the love of God toward us , because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world , that we might live through him .
4 : 10 Herein is love , not that we loved God , but that he loved us , and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins .
4 : 11 Beloved , if God so loved us , we ought also to love one another .
4 : 12 No man hath seen God at any time .
If we love one another , God dwelleth in us , and his love is perfected in us .
4 : 13 Hereby know we that we dwell in him , and he in us , because he hath given us of his Spirit .
4 : 14 And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world .
4 : 15 Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God , God dwelleth in him , and he in God .
4 : 16 And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us .
God is love ; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God , and God in him .
4 : 17 Herein is our love made perfect , that we may have boldness in the day of judgment : because as he is , so are we in this world .
4 : 18 There is no fear in love ; but perfect love casteth out fear : because fear hath torment .
He that feareth is not made perfect in love .
4 : 19 We love him , because he first loved us .
4 : 20 If a man say , I love God , and hateth his brother , he is a liar : for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen , how can he love God whom he hath not seen ?
4 : 21 And this commandment have we from him , That he who loveth God love his brother also .
5 : 1 Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God : and every one that loveth him that begat loveth him also that is begotten of him .
5 : 2 By this we know that we love the children of God , when we love God , and keep his commandments .
5 : 3 For this is the love of God , that we keep his commandments : and his commandments are not grievous .
5 : 4 For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world : and this is the victory that overcometh the world , even our faith .
5 : 5 Who is he that overcometh the world , but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God ?
5 : 6 This is he that came by water and blood , even Jesus Christ ; not by water only , but by water and blood .
And it is the Spirit that beareth witness , because the Spirit is truth .
5 : 7 For there are three that bear record in heaven , the Father , the Word , and the Holy Ghost : and these three are one .
5 : 8 And there are three that bear witness in earth , the Spirit , and the water , and the blood : and these three agree in one .
5 : 9 If we receive the witness of men , the witness of God is greater : for this is the witness of God which he hath testified of his Son .
5 : 10 He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself : he that believeth not God hath made him a liar ; because he believeth not the record that God gave of his Son .
5 : 11 And this is the record , that God hath given to us eternal life , and this life is in his Son .
5 : 12 He that hath the Son hath life ; and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life .
5 : 13 These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God ; that ye may know that ye have eternal life , and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God .
5 : 14 And this is the confidence that we have in him , that , if we ask any thing according to his will , he heareth us : 5 : 15 And if we know that he hear us , whatsoever we ask , we know that we have the petitions that we desired of him .
5 : 16 If any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death , he shall ask , and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death .
There is a sin unto death : I do not say that he shall pray for it .
5 : 17 All unrighteousness is sin : and there is a sin not unto death .
5 : 18 We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not ; but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself , and that wicked one toucheth him not .
5 : 19 And we know that we are of God , and the whole world lieth in wickedness .
5 : 20 And we know that the Son of God is come , and hath given us an understanding , that we may know him that is true , and we are in him that is true , even in his Son Jesus Christ .
This is the true God , and eternal life .
5 : 21 Little children , keep yourselves from idols .
Amen .
The Second Epistle General of John
1 : 1 The elder unto the elect lady and her children , whom I love in the truth ; and not I only , but also all they that have known the truth ; 1 : 2 For the truth ' s sake , which dwelleth in us , and shall be with us for ever .
1 : 3 Grace be with you , mercy , and peace , from God the Father , and from the Lord Jesus Christ , the Son of the Father , in truth and love .
1 : 4 I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth , as we have received a commandment from the Father .
1 : 5 And now I beseech thee , lady , not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee , but that which we had from the beginning , that we love one another .
1 : 6 And this is love , that we walk after his commandments .
This is the commandment , That , as ye have heard from the beginning , ye should walk in it .
1 : 7 For many deceivers are entered into the world , who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh .
This is a deceiver and an antichrist .
1 : 8 Look to yourselves , that we lose not those things which we have wrought , but that we receive a full reward .
1 : 9 Whosoever transgresseth , and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ , hath not God .
He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ , he hath both the Father and the Son .
1 : 10 If there come any unto you , and bring not this doctrine , receive him not into your house , neither bid him God speed : 1 : 11 For he that biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil deeds .
1 : 12 Having many things to write unto you , I would not write with paper and ink : but I trust to come unto you , and speak face to face , that our joy may be full .
1 : 13 The children of thy elect sister greet thee .
Amen .
The Third Epistle General of John
1 : 1 The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius , whom I love in the truth .
1 : 2 Beloved , I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health , even as thy soul prospereth .
1 : 3 For I rejoiced greatly , when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee , even as thou walkest in the truth .
1 : 4 I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth .
1 : 5 Beloved , thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren , and to strangers ; 1 : 6 Which have borne witness of thy charity before the church : whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort , thou shalt do well : 1 : 7 Because that for his name ' s sake they went forth , taking nothing of the Gentiles .
1 : 8 We therefore ought to receive such , that we might be fellowhelpers to the truth .
1 : 9 I wrote unto the church : but Diotrephes , who loveth to have the preeminence among them , receiveth us not .
1 : 10 Wherefore , if I come , I will remember his deeds which he doeth , prating against us with malicious words : and not content therewith , neither doth he himself receive the brethren , and forbiddeth them that would , and casteth them out of the church .
1 : 11 Beloved , follow not that which is evil , but that which is good .
He that doeth good is of God : but he that doeth evil hath not seen God .
1 : 12 Demetrius hath good report of all men , and of the truth itself : yea , and we also bear record ; and ye know that our record is true .
1 : 13 I had many things to write , but I will not with ink and pen write unto thee : 1 : 14 But I trust I shall shortly see thee , and we shall speak face to face .
Peace be to thee .
Our friends salute thee .
Greet the friends by name .
The General Epistle of Jude
1 : 1 Jude , the servant of Jesus Christ , and brother of James , to them that are sanctified by God the Father , and preserved in Jesus Christ , and called : 1 : 2 Mercy unto you , and peace , and love , be multiplied .
1 : 3 Beloved , when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation , it was needful for me to write unto you , and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints .
1 : 4 For there are certain men crept in unawares , who were before of old ordained to this condemnation , ungodly men , turning the grace of our God into lasciviousness , and denying the only Lord God , and our Lord Jesus Christ .
1 : 5 I will therefore put you in remembrance , though ye once knew this , how that the Lord , having saved the people out of the land of Egypt , afterward destroyed them that believed not .
1 : 6 And the angels which kept not their first estate , but left their own habitation , he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day .
1 : 7 Even as Sodom and Gomorrha , and the cities about them in like manner , giving themselves over to fornication , and going after strange flesh , are set forth for an example , suffering the vengeance of eternal fire .
1 : 8 Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh , despise dominion , and speak evil of dignities .
1 : 9 Yet Michael the archangel , when contending with the devil he disputed about the body of Moses , durst not bring against him a railing accusation , but said , The Lord rebuke thee .
1 : 10 But these speak evil of those things which they know not : but what they know naturally , as brute beasts , in those things they corrupt themselves .
1 : 11 Woe unto them !
for they have gone in the way of Cain , and ran greedily after the error of Balaam for reward , and perished in the gainsaying of Core .
1 : 12 These are spots in your feasts of charity , when they feast with you , feeding themselves without fear : clouds they are without water , carried about of winds ; trees whose fruit withereth , without fruit , twice dead , plucked up by the roots ; 1 : 13 Raging waves of the sea , foaming out their own shame ; wandering stars , to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness for ever .
1 : 14 And Enoch also , the seventh from Adam , prophesied of these , saying , Behold , the Lord cometh with ten thousands of his saints , 1 : 15 To execute judgment upon all , and to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds which they have ungodly committed , and of all their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him .
1 : 16 These are murmurers , complainers , walking after their own lusts ; and their mouth speaketh great swelling words , having men ' s persons in admiration because of advantage .
1 : 17 But , beloved , remember ye the words which were spoken before of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ ; 1 : 18 How that they told you there should be mockers in the last time , who should walk after their own ungodly lusts .
1 : 19 These be they who separate themselves , sensual , having not the Spirit .
1 : 20 But ye , beloved , building up yourselves on your most holy faith , praying in the Holy Ghost , 1 : 21 Keep yourselves in the love of God , looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life .
1 : 22 And of some have compassion , making a difference : 1 : 23 And others save with fear , pulling them out of the fire ; hating even the garment spotted by the flesh .
1 : 24 Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling , and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy , 1 : 25 To the only wise God our Saviour , be glory and majesty , dominion and power , both now and ever .
Amen .
The Revelation of Saint John the Devine
1 : 1 The Revelation of Jesus Christ , which God gave unto him , to shew unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass ; and he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John : 1 : 2 Who bare record of the word of God , and of the testimony of Jesus Christ , and of all things that he saw .
1 : 3 Blessed is he that readeth , and they that hear the words of this prophecy , and keep those things which are written therein : for the time is at hand .
1 : 4 John to the seven churches which are in Asia : Grace be unto you , and peace , from him which is , and which was , and which is to come ; and from the seven Spirits which are before his throne ; 1 : 5 And from Jesus Christ , who is the faithful witness , and the first begotten of the dead , and the prince of the kings of the earth .
Unto him that loved us , and washed us from our sins in his own blood , 1 : 6 And hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father ; to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever .
Amen .
1 : 7 Behold , he cometh with clouds ; and every eye shall see him , and they also which pierced him : and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him .
Even so , Amen .
1 : 8 I am Alpha and Omega , the beginning and the ending , saith the Lord , which is , and which was , and which is to come , the Almighty .
1 : 9 I John , who also am your brother , and companion in tribulation , and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ , was in the isle that is called Patmos , for the word of God , and for the testimony of Jesus Christ .
1 : 10 I was in the Spirit on the Lord ' s day , and heard behind me a great voice , as of a trumpet , 1 : 11 Saying , I am Alpha and Omega , the first and the last : and , What thou seest , write in a book , and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia ; unto Ephesus , and unto Smyrna , and unto Pergamos , and unto Thyatira , and unto Sardis , and unto Philadelphia , and unto Laodicea .
1 : 12 And I turned to see the voice that spake with me .
And being turned , I saw seven golden candlesticks ; 1 : 13 And in the midst of the seven candlesticks one like unto the Son of man , clothed with a garment down to the foot , and girt about the paps with a golden girdle .
1 : 14 His head and his hairs were white like wool , as white as snow ; and his eyes were as a flame of fire ; 1 : 15 And his feet like unto fine brass , as if they burned in a furnace ; and his voice as the sound of many waters .
1 : 16 And he had in his right hand seven stars : and out of his mouth went a sharp twoedged sword : and his countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength .
1 : 17 And when I saw him , I fell at his feet as dead .
And he laid his right hand upon me , saying unto me , Fear not ; I am the first and the last : 1 : 18 I am he that liveth , and was dead ; and , behold , I am alive for evermore , Amen ; and have the keys of hell and of death .
1 : 19 Write the things which thou hast seen , and the things which are , and the things which shall be hereafter ; 1 : 20 The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand , and the seven golden candlesticks .
The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches : and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches .
2 : 1 Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus write ; These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand , who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks ; 2 : 2 I know thy works , and thy labour , and thy patience , and how thou canst not bear them which are evil : and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles , and are not , and hast found them liars : 2 : 3 And hast borne , and hast patience , and for my name ' s sake hast laboured , and hast not fainted .
2 : 4 Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee , because thou hast left thy first love .
2 : 5 Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen , and repent , and do the first works ; or else I will come unto thee quickly , and will remove thy candlestick out of his place , except thou repent .
2 : 6 But this thou hast , that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitanes , which I also hate .
2 : 7 He that hath an ear , let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches ; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life , which is in the midst of the paradise of God .
2 : 8 And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write ; These things saith the first and the last , which was dead , and is alive ; 2 : 9 I know thy works , and tribulation , and poverty , ( but thou art rich ) and I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews , and are not , but are the synagogue of Satan .
2 : 10 Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer : behold , the devil shall cast some of you into prison , that ye may be tried ; and ye shall have tribulation ten days : be thou faithful unto death , and I will give thee a crown of life .
2 : 11 He that hath an ear , let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches ; He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death .
2 : 12 And to the angel of the church in Pergamos write ; These things saith he which hath the sharp sword with two edges ; 2 : 13 I know thy works , and where thou dwellest , even where Satan ' s seat is : and thou holdest fast my name , and hast not denied my faith , even in those days wherein Antipas was my faithful martyr , who was slain among you , where Satan dwelleth .
2 : 14 But I have a few things against thee , because thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam , who taught Balac to cast a stumblingblock before the children of Israel , to eat things sacrificed unto idols , and to commit fornication .
2 : 15 So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of the Nicolaitanes , which thing I hate .
2 : 16 Repent ; or else I will come unto thee quickly , and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth .
2 : 17 He that hath an ear , let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches ; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna , and will give him a white stone , and in the stone a new name written , which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it .
2 : 18 And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write ; These things saith the Son of God , who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire , and his feet are like fine brass ; 2 : 19 I know thy works , and charity , and service , and faith , and thy patience , and thy works ; and the last to be more than the first .
2 : 20 Notwithstanding I have a few things against thee , because thou sufferest that woman Jezebel , which calleth herself a prophetess , to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication , and to eat things sacrificed unto idols .
2 : 21 And I gave her space to repent of her fornication ; and she repented not .
2 : 22 Behold , I will cast her into a bed , and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation , except they repent of their deeds .
2 : 23 And I will kill her children with death ; and all the churches shall know that I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts : and I will give unto every one of you according to your works .
2 : 24 But unto you I say , and unto the rest in Thyatira , as many as have not this doctrine , and which have not known the depths of Satan , as they speak ; I will put upon you none other burden .
2 : 25 But that which ye have already hold fast till I come .
2 : 26 And he that overcometh , and keepeth my works unto the end , to him will I give power over the nations : 2 : 27 And he shall rule them with a rod of iron ; as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers : even as I received of my Father .
2 : 28 And I will give him the morning star .
2 : 29 He that hath an ear , let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches .
3 : 1 And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write ; These things saith he that hath the seven Spirits of God , and the seven stars ; I know thy works , that thou hast a name that thou livest , and art dead .
3 : 2 Be watchful , and strengthen the things which remain , that are ready to die : for I have not found thy works perfect before God .
3 : 3 Remember therefore how thou hast received and heard , and hold fast , and repent .
If therefore thou shalt not watch , I will come on thee as a thief , and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee .
3 : 4 Thou hast a few names even in Sardis which have not defiled their garments ; and they shall walk with me in white : for they are worthy .
3 : 5 He that overcometh , the same shall be clothed in white raiment ; and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life , but I will confess his name before my Father , and before his angels .
3 : 6 He that hath an ear , let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches .
3 : 7 And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write ; These things saith he that is holy , he that is true , he that hath the key of David , he that openeth , and no man shutteth ; and shutteth , and no man openeth ; 3 : 8 I know thy works : behold , I have set before thee an open door , and no man can shut it : for thou hast a little strength , and hast kept my word , and hast not denied my name .
3 : 9 Behold , I will make them of the synagogue of Satan , which say they are Jews , and are not , but do lie ; behold , I will make them to come and worship before thy feet , and to know that I have loved thee .
3 : 10 Because thou hast kept the word of my patience , I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation , which shall come upon all the world , to try them that dwell upon the earth .
3 : 11 Behold , I come quickly : hold that fast which thou hast , that no man take thy crown .
3 : 12 Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God , and he shall go no more out : and I will write upon him the name of my God , and the name of the city of my God , which is new Jerusalem , which cometh down out of heaven from my God : and I will write upon him my new name .
3 : 13 He that hath an ear , let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches .
3 : 14 And unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write ; These things saith the Amen , the faithful and true witness , the beginning of the creation of God ; 3 : 15 I know thy works , that thou art neither cold nor hot : I would thou wert cold or hot .
3 : 16 So then because thou art lukewarm , and neither cold nor hot , I will spue thee out of my mouth .
3 : 17 Because thou sayest , I am rich , and increased with goods , and have need of nothing ; and knowest not that thou art wretched , and miserable , and poor , and blind , and naked : 3 : 18 I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire , that thou mayest be rich ; and white raiment , that thou mayest be clothed , and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear ; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve , that thou mayest see .
3 : 19 As many as I love , I rebuke and chasten : be zealous therefore , and repent .
3 : 20 Behold , I stand at the door , and knock : if any man hear my voice , and open the door , I will come in to him , and will sup with him , and he with me .
3 : 21 To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne , even as I also overcame , and am set down with my Father in his throne .
3 : 22 He that hath an ear , let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches .
4 : 1 After this I looked , and , behold , a door was opened in heaven : and the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me ; which said , Come up hither , and I will shew thee things which must be hereafter .
4 : 2 And immediately I was in the spirit : and , behold , a throne was set in heaven , and one sat on the throne .
4 : 3 And he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine stone : and there was a rainbow round about the throne , in sight like unto an emerald .
4 : 4 And round about the throne were four and twenty seats : and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting , clothed in white raiment ; and they had on their heads crowns of gold .
4 : 5 And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and voices : and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne , which are the seven Spirits of God .
4 : 6 And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal : and in the midst of the throne , and round about the throne , were four beasts full of eyes before and behind .
4 : 7 And the first beast was like a lion , and the second beast like a calf , and the third beast had a face as a man , and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle .
4 : 8 And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him ; and they were full of eyes within : and they rest not day and night , saying , Holy , holy , holy , LORD God Almighty , which was , and is , and is to come .
4 : 9 And when those beasts give glory and honour and thanks to him that sat on the throne , who liveth for ever and ever , 4 : 10 The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne , and worship him that liveth for ever and ever , and cast their crowns before the throne , saying , 4 : 11 Thou art worthy , O Lord , to receive glory and honour and power : for thou hast created all things , and for thy pleasure they are and were created .
5 : 1 And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the backside , sealed with seven seals .
5 : 2 And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice , Who is worthy to open the book , and to loose the seals thereof ?
5 : 3 And no man in heaven , nor in earth , neither under the earth , was able to open the book , neither to look thereon .
5 : 4 And I wept much , because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book , neither to look thereon .
5 : 5 And one of the elders saith unto me , Weep not : behold , the Lion of the tribe of Juda , the Root of David , hath prevailed to open the book , and to loose the seven seals thereof .
5 : 6 And I beheld , and , lo , in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts , and in the midst of the elders , stood a Lamb as it had been slain , having seven horns and seven eyes , which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth .
5 : 7 And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne .
5 : 8 And when he had taken the book , the four beasts and four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb , having every one of them harps , and golden vials full of odours , which are the prayers of saints .
5 : 9 And they sung a new song , saying , Thou art worthy to take the book , and to open the seals thereof : for thou wast slain , and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred , and tongue , and people , and nation ; 5 : 10 And hast made us unto our God kings and priests : and we shall reign on the earth .
5 : 11 And I beheld , and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beasts and the elders : and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand , and thousands of thousands ; 5 : 12 Saying with a loud voice , Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power , and riches , and wisdom , and strength , and honour , and glory , and blessing .
5 : 13 And every creature which is in heaven , and on the earth , and under the earth , and such as are in the sea , and all that are in them , heard I saying , Blessing , and honour , and glory , and power , be unto him that sitteth upon the throne , and unto the Lamb for ever and ever .
5 : 14 And the four beasts said , Amen .
And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth for ever and ever .
6 : 1 And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals , and I heard , as it were the noise of thunder , one of the four beasts saying , Come and see .
6 : 2 And I saw , and behold a white horse : and he that sat on him had a bow ; and a crown was given unto him : and he went forth conquering , and to conquer .
6 : 3 And when he had opened the second seal , I heard the second beast say , Come and see .
6 : 4 And there went out another horse that was red : and power was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth , and that they should kill one another : and there was given unto him a great sword .
6 : 5 And when he had opened the third seal , I heard the third beast say , Come and see .
And I beheld , and lo a black horse ; and he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand .
6 : 6 And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say , A measure of wheat for a penny , and three measures of barley for a penny ; and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine .
6 : 7 And when he had opened the fourth seal , I heard the voice of the fourth beast say , Come and see .
6 : 8 And I looked , and behold a pale horse : and his name that sat on him was Death , and Hell followed with him .
And power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth , to kill with sword , and with hunger , and with death , and with the beasts of the earth .
6 : 9 And when he had opened the fifth seal , I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God , and for the testimony which they held : 6 : 10 And they cried with a loud voice , saying , How long , O Lord , holy and true , dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth ?
6 : 11 And white robes were given unto every one of them ; and it was said unto them , that they should rest yet for a little season , until their fellowservants also and their brethren , that should be killed as they were , should be fulfilled .
6 : 12 And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal , and , lo , there was a great earthquake ; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair , and the moon became as blood ; 6 : 13 And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth , even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs , when she is shaken of a mighty wind .
6 : 14 And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together ; and every mountain and island were moved out of their places .
6 : 15 And the kings of the earth , and the great men , and the rich men , and the chief captains , and the mighty men , and every bondman , and every free man , hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains ; 6 : 16 And said to the mountains and rocks , Fall on us , and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne , and from the wrath of the Lamb : 6 : 17 For the great day of his wrath is come ; and who shall be able to stand ?
7 : 1 And after these things I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth , holding the four winds of the earth , that the wind should not blow on the earth , nor on the sea , nor on any tree .
7 : 2 And I saw another angel ascending from the east , having the seal of the living God : and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels , to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea , 7 : 3 Saying , Hurt not the earth , neither the sea , nor the trees , till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads .
7 : 4 And I heard the number of them which were sealed : and there were sealed an hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel .
7 : 5 Of the tribe of Juda were sealed twelve thousand .
Of the tribe of Reuben were sealed twelve thousand .
Of the tribe of Gad were sealed twelve thousand .
7 : 6 Of the tribe of Aser were sealed twelve thousand .
Of the tribe of Nephthalim were sealed twelve thousand .
Of the tribe of Manasses were sealed twelve thousand .
7 : 7 Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand .
Of the tribe of Levi were sealed twelve thousand .
Of the tribe of Issachar were sealed twelve thousand .
7 : 8 Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand .
Of the tribe of Joseph were sealed twelve thousand .
Of the tribe of Benjamin were sealed twelve thousand .
7 : 9 After this I beheld , and , lo , a great multitude , which no man could number , of all nations , and kindreds , and people , and tongues , stood before the throne , and before the Lamb , clothed with white robes , and palms in their hands ; 7 : 10 And cried with a loud voice , saying , Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne , and unto the Lamb .
7 : 11 And all the angels stood round about the throne , and about the elders and the four beasts , and fell before the throne on their faces , and worshipped God , 7 : 12 Saying , Amen : Blessing , and glory , and wisdom , and thanksgiving , and honour , and power , and might , be unto our God for ever and ever .
Amen .
7 : 13 And one of the elders answered , saying unto me , What are these which are arrayed in white robes ?
and whence came they ?
7 : 14 And I said unto him , Sir , thou knowest .
And he said to me , These are they which came out of great tribulation , and have washed their robes , and made them white in the blood of the Lamb .
7 : 15 Therefore are they before the throne of God , and serve him day and night in his temple : and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them .
7 : 16 They shall hunger no more , neither thirst any more ; neither shall the sun light on them , nor any heat .
7 : 17 For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them , and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters : and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes .
8 : 1 And when he had opened the seventh seal , there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour .
8 : 2 And I saw the seven angels which stood before God ; and to them were given seven trumpets .
8 : 3 And another angel came and stood at the altar , having a golden censer ; and there was given unto him much incense , that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne .
8 : 4 And the smoke of the incense , which came with the prayers of the saints , ascended up before God out of the angel ' s hand .
8 : 5 And the angel took the censer , and filled it with fire of the altar , and cast it into the earth : and there were voices , and thunderings , and lightnings , and an earthquake .
8 : 6 And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound .
8 : 7 The first angel sounded , and there followed hail and fire mingled with blood , and they were cast upon the earth : and the third part of trees was burnt up , and all green grass was burnt up .
8 : 8 And the second angel sounded , and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea : and the third part of the sea became blood ; 8 : 9 And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea , and had life , died ; and the third part of the ships were destroyed .
8 : 10 And the third angel sounded , and there fell a great star from heaven , burning as it were a lamp , and it fell upon the third part of the rivers , and upon the fountains of waters ; 8 : 11 And the name of the star is called Wormwood : and the third part of the waters became wormwood ; and many men died of the waters , because they were made bitter .
8 : 12 And the fourth angel sounded , and the third part of the sun was smitten , and the third part of the moon , and the third part of the stars ; so as the third part of them was darkened , and the day shone not for a third part of it , and the night likewise .
8 : 13 And I beheld , and heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven , saying with a loud voice , Woe , woe , woe , to the inhabiters of the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels , which are yet to sound !
9 : 1 And the fifth angel sounded , and I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth : and to him was given the key of the bottomless pit .
9 : 2 And he opened the bottomless pit ; and there arose a smoke out of the pit , as the smoke of a great furnace ; and the sun and the air were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit .
9 : 3 And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth : and unto them was given power , as the scorpions of the earth have power .
9 : 4 And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth , neither any green thing , neither any tree ; but only those men which have not the seal of God in their foreheads .
9 : 5 And to them it was given that they should not kill them , but that they should be tormented five months : and their torment was as the torment of a scorpion , when he striketh a man .
9 : 6 And in those days shall men seek death , and shall not find it ; and shall desire to die , and death shall flee from them .
9 : 7 And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared unto battle ; and on their heads were as it were crowns like gold , and their faces were as the faces of men .
9 : 8 And they had hair as the hair of women , and their teeth were as the teeth of lions .
9 : 9 And they had breastplates , as it were breastplates of iron ; and the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses running to battle .
9 : 10 And they had tails like unto scorpions , and there were stings in their tails : and their power was to hurt men five months .
9 : 11 And they had a king over them , which is the angel of the bottomless pit , whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon , but in the Greek tongue hath his name Apollyon .
9 : 12 One woe is past ; and , behold , there come two woes more hereafter .
9 : 13 And the sixth angel sounded , and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before God , 9 : 14 Saying to the sixth angel which had the trumpet , Loose the four angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates .
9 : 15 And the four angels were loosed , which were prepared for an hour , and a day , and a month , and a year , for to slay the third part of men .
9 : 16 And the number of the army of the horsemen were two hundred thousand thousand : and I heard the number of them .
9 : 17 And thus I saw the horses in the vision , and them that sat on them , having breastplates of fire , and of jacinth , and brimstone : and the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions ; and out of their mouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone .
9 : 18 By these three was the third part of men killed , by the fire , and by the smoke , and by the brimstone , which issued out of their mouths .
9 : 19 For their power is in their mouth , and in their tails : for their tails were like unto serpents , and had heads , and with them they do hurt .
9 : 20 And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented not of the works of their hands , that they should not worship devils , and idols of gold , and silver , and brass , and stone , and of wood : which neither can see , nor hear , nor walk : 9 : 21 Neither repented they of their murders , nor of their sorceries , nor of their fornication , nor of their thefts .
10 : 1 And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven , clothed with a cloud : and a rainbow was upon his head , and his face was as it were the sun , and his feet as pillars of fire : 10 : 2 And he had in his hand a little book open : and he set his right foot upon the sea , and his left foot on the earth , 10 : 3 And cried with a loud voice , as when a lion roareth : and when he had cried , seven thunders uttered their voices .
10 : 4 And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices , I was about to write : and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me , Seal up those things which the seven thunders uttered , and write them not .
10 : 5 And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his hand to heaven , 10 : 6 And sware by him that liveth for ever and ever , who created heaven , and the things that therein are , and the earth , and the things that therein are , and the sea , and the things which are therein , that there should be time no longer : 10 : 7 But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel , when he shall begin to sound , the mystery of God should be finished , as he hath declared to his servants the prophets .
10 : 8 And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again , and said , Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth .
10 : 9 And I went unto the angel , and said unto him , Give me the little book .
And he said unto me , Take it , and eat it up ; and it shall make thy belly bitter , but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey .
10 : 10 And I took the little book out of the angel ' s hand , and ate it up ; and it was in my mouth sweet as honey : and as soon as I had eaten it , my belly was bitter .
10 : 11 And he said unto me , Thou must prophesy again before many peoples , and nations , and tongues , and kings .
11 : 1 And there was given me a reed like unto a rod : and the angel stood , saying , Rise , and measure the temple of God , and the altar , and them that worship therein .
11 : 2 But the court which is without the temple leave out , and measure it not ; for it is given unto the Gentiles : and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty and two months .
11 : 3 And I will give power unto my two witnesses , and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days , clothed in sackcloth .
11 : 4 These are the two olive trees , and the two candlesticks standing before the God of the earth .
11 : 5 And if any man will hurt them , fire proceedeth out of their mouth , and devoureth their enemies : and if any man will hurt them , he must in this manner be killed .
11 : 6 These have power to shut heaven , that it rain not in the days of their prophecy : and have power over waters to turn them to blood , and to smite the earth with all plagues , as often as they will .
11 : 7 And when they shall have finished their testimony , the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them , and shall overcome them , and kill them .
11 : 8 And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city , which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt , where also our Lord was crucified .
11 : 9 And they of the people and kindreds and tongues and nations shall see their dead bodies three days and an half , and shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put in graves .
11 : 10 And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them , and make merry , and shall send gifts one to another ; because these two prophets tormented them that dwelt on the earth .
11 : 11 And after three days and an half the spirit of life from God entered into them , and they stood upon their feet ; and great fear fell upon them which saw them .
11 : 12 And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them , Come up hither .
And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud ; and their enemies beheld them .
11 : 13 And the same hour was there a great earthquake , and the tenth part of the city fell , and in the earthquake were slain of men seven thousand : and the remnant were affrighted , and gave glory to the God of heaven .
11 : 14 The second woe is past ; and , behold , the third woe cometh quickly .
11 : 15 And the seventh angel sounded ; and there were great voices in heaven , saying , The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord , and of his Christ ; and he shall reign for ever and ever .
11 : 16 And the four and twenty elders , which sat before God on their seats , fell upon their faces , and worshipped God , 11 : 17 Saying , We give thee thanks , O LORD God Almighty , which art , and wast , and art to come ; because thou hast taken to thee thy great power , and hast reigned .
11 : 18 And the nations were angry , and thy wrath is come , and the time of the dead , that they should be judged , and that thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants the prophets , and to the saints , and them that fear thy name , small and great ; and shouldest destroy them which destroy the earth .
11 : 19 And the temple of God was opened in heaven , and there was seen in his temple the ark of his testament : and there were lightnings , and voices , and thunderings , and an earthquake , and great hail .
12 : 1 And there appeared a great wonder in heaven ; a woman clothed with the sun , and the moon under her feet , and upon her head a crown of twelve stars : 12 : 2 And she being with child cried , travailing in birth , and pained to be delivered .
12 : 3 And there appeared another wonder in heaven ; and behold a great red dragon , having seven heads and ten horns , and seven crowns upon his heads .
12 : 4 And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven , and did cast them to the earth : and the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered , for to devour her child as soon as it was born .
12 : 5 And she brought forth a man child , who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron : and her child was caught up unto God , and to his throne .
12 : 6 And the woman fled into the wilderness , where she hath a place prepared of God , that they should feed her there a thousand two hundred and threescore days .
12 : 7 And there was war in heaven : Michael and his angels fought against the dragon ; and the dragon fought and his angels , 12 : 8 And prevailed not ; neither was their place found any more in heaven .
12 : 9 And the great dragon was cast out , that old serpent , called the Devil , and Satan , which deceiveth the whole world : he was cast out into the earth , and his angels were cast out with him .
12 : 10 And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven , Now is come salvation , and strength , and the kingdom of our God , and the power of his Christ : for the accuser of our brethren is cast down , which accused them before our God day and night .
12 : 11 And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb , and by the word of their testimony ; and they loved not their lives unto the death .
12 : 12 Therefore rejoice , ye heavens , and ye that dwell in them .
Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea !
for the devil is come down unto you , having great wrath , because he knoweth that he hath but a short time .
12 : 13 And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth , he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man child .
12 : 14 And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle , that she might fly into the wilderness , into her place , where she is nourished for a time , and times , and half a time , from the face of the serpent .
12 : 15 And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman , that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood .
12 : 16 And the earth helped the woman , and the earth opened her mouth , and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth .
12 : 17 And the dragon was wroth with the woman , and went to make war with the remnant of her seed , which keep the commandments of God , and have the testimony of Jesus Christ .
13 : 1 And I stood upon the sand of the sea , and saw a beast rise up out of the sea , having seven heads and ten horns , and upon his horns ten crowns , and upon his heads the name of blasphemy .
13 : 2 And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard , and his feet were as the feet of a bear , and his mouth as the mouth of a lion : and the dragon gave him his power , and his seat , and great authority .
13 : 3 And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death ; and his deadly wound was healed : and all the world wondered after the beast .
13 : 4 And they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast : and they worshipped the beast , saying , Who is like unto the beast ?
who is able to make war with him ?
13 : 5 And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies ; and power was given unto him to continue forty and two months .
13 : 6 And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God , to blaspheme his name , and his tabernacle , and them that dwell in heaven .
13 : 7 And it was given unto him to make war with the saints , and to overcome them : and power was given him over all kindreds , and tongues , and nations .
13 : 8 And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him , whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world .
13 : 9 If any man have an ear , let him hear .
13 : 10 He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity : he that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword .
Here is the patience and the faith of the saints .
13 : 11 And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth ; and he had two horns like a lamb , and he spake as a dragon .
13 : 12 And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him , and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first beast , whose deadly wound was healed .
13 : 13 And he doeth great wonders , so that he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men , 13 : 14 And deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast ; saying to them that dwell on the earth , that they should make an image to the beast , which had the wound by a sword , and did live .
13 : 15 And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast , that the image of the beast should both speak , and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed .
13 : 16 And he causeth all , both small and great , rich and poor , free and bond , to receive a mark in their right hand , or in their foreheads : 13 : 17 And that no man might buy or sell , save he that had the mark , or the name of the beast , or the number of his name .
13 : 18 Here is wisdom .
Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast : for it is the number of a man ; and his number is Six hundred threescore and six .
14 : 1 And I looked , and , lo , a Lamb stood on the mount Sion , and with him an hundred forty and four thousand , having his Father ' s name written in their foreheads .
14 : 2 And I heard a voice from heaven , as the voice of many waters , and as the voice of a great thunder : and I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps : 14 : 3 And they sung as it were a new song before the throne , and before the four beasts , and the elders : and no man could learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand , which were redeemed from the earth .
14 : 4 These are they which were not defiled with women ; for they are virgins .
These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth .
These were redeemed from among men , being the firstfruits unto God and to the Lamb .
14 : 5 And in their mouth was found no guile : for they are without fault before the throne of God .
14 : 6 And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven , having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth , and to every nation , and kindred , and tongue , and people , 14 : 7 Saying with a loud voice , Fear God , and give glory to him ; for the hour of his judgment is come : and worship him that made heaven , and earth , and the sea , and the fountains of waters .
14 : 8 And there followed another angel , saying , Babylon is fallen , is fallen , that great city , because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication .
14 : 9 And the third angel followed them , saying with a loud voice , If any man worship the beast and his image , and receive his mark in his forehead , or in his hand , 14 : 10 The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God , which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation ; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels , and in the presence of the Lamb : 14 : 11 And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever : and they have no rest day nor night , who worship the beast and his image , and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name .
14 : 12 Here is the patience of the saints : here are they that keep the commandments of God , and the faith of Jesus .
14 : 13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me , Write , Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth : Yea , saith the Spirit , that they may rest from their labours ; and their works do follow them .
14 : 14 And I looked , and behold a white cloud , and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of man , having on his head a golden crown , and in his hand a sharp sickle .
14 : 15 And another angel came out of the temple , crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud , Thrust in thy sickle , and reap : for the time is come for thee to reap ; for the harvest of the earth is ripe .
14 : 16 And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth ; and the earth was reaped .
14 : 17 And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven , he also having a sharp sickle .
14 : 18 And another angel came out from the altar , which had power over fire ; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle , saying , Thrust in thy sharp sickle , and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth ; for her grapes are fully ripe .
14 : 19 And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth , and gathered the vine of the earth , and cast it into the great winepress of the wrath of God .
14 : 20 And the winepress was trodden without the city , and blood came out of the winepress , even unto the horse bridles , by the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs .
15 : 1 And I saw another sign in heaven , great and marvellous , seven angels having the seven last plagues ; for in them is filled up the wrath of God .
15 : 2 And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire : and them that had gotten the victory over the beast , and over his image , and over his mark , and over the number of his name , stand on the sea of glass , having the harps of God .
15 : 3 And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God , and the song of the Lamb , saying , Great and marvellous are thy works , Lord God Almighty ; just and true are thy ways , thou King of saints .
15 : 4 Who shall not fear thee , O Lord , and glorify thy name ?
for thou only art holy : for all nations shall come and worship before thee ; for thy judgments are made manifest .
15 : 5 And after that I looked , and , behold , the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened : 15 : 6 And the seven angels came out of the temple , having the seven plagues , clothed in pure and white linen , and having their breasts girded with golden girdles .
15 : 7 And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials full of the wrath of God , who liveth for ever and ever .
15 : 8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God , and from his power ; and no man was able to enter into the temple , till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled .
16 : 1 And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels , Go your ways , and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth .
16 : 2 And the first went , and poured out his vial upon the earth ; and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark of the beast , and upon them which worshipped his image .
16 : 3 And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea ; and it became as the blood of a dead man : and every living soul died in the sea .
16 : 4 And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and fountains of waters ; and they became blood .
16 : 5 And I heard the angel of the waters say , Thou art righteous , O Lord , which art , and wast , and shalt be , because thou hast judged thus .
16 : 6 For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets , and thou hast given them blood to drink ; for they are worthy .
16 : 7 And I heard another out of the altar say , Even so , Lord God Almighty , true and righteous are thy judgments .
16 : 8 And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun ; and power was given unto him to scorch men with fire .
16 : 9 And men were scorched with great heat , and blasphemed the name of God , which hath power over these plagues : and they repented not to give him glory .
16 : 10 And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast ; and his kingdom was full of darkness ; and they gnawed their tongues for pain , 16 : 11 And blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores , and repented not of their deeds .
16 : 12 And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates ; and the water thereof was dried up , that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared .
16 : 13 And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon , and out of the mouth of the beast , and out of the mouth of the false prophet .
16 : 14 For they are the spirits of devils , working miracles , which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world , to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty .
16 : 15 Behold , I come as a thief .
Blessed is he that watcheth , and keepeth his garments , lest he walk naked , and they see his shame .
16 : 16 And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon .
16 : 17 And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air ; and there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven , from the throne , saying , It is done .
16 : 18 And there were voices , and thunders , and lightnings ; and there was a great earthquake , such as was not since men were upon the earth , so mighty an earthquake , and so great .
16 : 19 And the great city was divided into three parts , and the cities of the nations fell : and great Babylon came in remembrance before God , to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath .
16 : 20 And every island fled away , and the mountains were not found .
16 : 21 And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven , every stone about the weight of a talent : and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail ; for the plague thereof was exceeding great .
17 : 1 And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials , and talked with me , saying unto me , Come hither ; I will shew unto thee the judgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters : 17 : 2 With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication , and the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication .
17 : 3 So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness : and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast , full of names of blasphemy , having seven heads and ten horns .
17 : 4 And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour , and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls , having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication : 17 : 5 And upon her forehead was a name written , MYSTERY , BABYLON THE GREAT , THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH .
17 : 6 And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints , and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus : and when I saw her , I wondered with great admiration .
17 : 7 And the angel said unto me , Wherefore didst thou marvel ?
I will tell thee the mystery of the woman , and of the beast that carrieth her , which hath the seven heads and ten horns .
17 : 8 The beast that thou sawest was , and is not ; and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit , and go into perdition : and they that dwell on the earth shall wonder , whose names were not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world , when they behold the beast that was , and is not , and yet is .
17 : 9 And here is the mind which hath wisdom .
The seven heads are seven mountains , on which the woman sitteth .
17 : 10 And there are seven kings : five are fallen , and one is , and the other is not yet come ; and when he cometh , he must continue a short space .
17 : 11 And the beast that was , and is not , even he is the eighth , and is of the seven , and goeth into perdition .
17 : 12 And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings , which have received no kingdom as yet ; but receive power as kings one hour with the beast .
17 : 13 These have one mind , and shall give their power and strength unto the beast .
17 : 14 These shall make war with the Lamb , and the Lamb shall overcome them : for he is Lord of lords , and King of kings : and they that are with him are called , and chosen , and faithful .
17 : 15 And he saith unto me , The waters which thou sawest , where the whore sitteth , are peoples , and multitudes , and nations , and tongues .
17 : 16 And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast , these shall hate the whore , and shall make her desolate and naked , and shall eat her flesh , and burn her with fire .
17 : 17 For God hath put in their hearts to fulfil his will , and to agree , and give their kingdom unto the beast , until the words of God shall be fulfilled .
17 : 18 And the woman which thou sawest is that great city , which reigneth over the kings of the earth .
18 : 1 And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven , having great power ; and the earth was lightened with his glory .
18 : 2 And he cried mightily with a strong voice , saying , Babylon the great is fallen , is fallen , and is become the habitation of devils , and the hold of every foul spirit , and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird .
18 : 3 For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication , and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her , and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies .
18 : 4 And I heard another voice from heaven , saying , Come out of her , my people , that ye be not partakers of her sins , and that ye receive not of her plagues .
18 : 5 For her sins have reached unto heaven , and God hath remembered her iniquities .
18 : 6 Reward her even as she rewarded you , and double unto her double according to her works : in the cup which she hath filled fill to her double .
18 : 7 How much she hath glorified herself , and lived deliciously , so much torment and sorrow give her : for she saith in her heart , I sit a queen , and am no widow , and shall see no sorrow .
18 : 8 Therefore shall her plagues come in one day , death , and mourning , and famine ; and she shall be utterly burned with fire : for strong is the Lord God who judgeth her .
18 : 9 And the kings of the earth , who have committed fornication and lived deliciously with her , shall bewail her , and lament for her , when they shall see the smoke of her burning , 18 : 10 Standing afar off for the fear of her torment , saying , Alas , alas that great city Babylon , that mighty city !
for in one hour is thy judgment come .
18 : 11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her ; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more : 18 : 12 The merchandise of gold , and silver , and precious stones , and of pearls , and fine linen , and purple , and silk , and scarlet , and all thyine wood , and all manner vessels of ivory , and all manner vessels of most precious wood , and of brass , and iron , and marble , 18 : 13 And cinnamon , and odours , and ointments , and frankincense , and wine , and oil , and fine flour , and wheat , and beasts , and sheep , and horses , and chariots , and slaves , and souls of men .
18 : 14 And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from thee , and all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from thee , and thou shalt find them no more at all .
18 : 15 The merchants of these things , which were made rich by her , shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment , weeping and wailing , 18 : 16 And saying , Alas , alas that great city , that was clothed in fine linen , and purple , and scarlet , and decked with gold , and precious stones , and pearls !
18 : 17 For in one hour so great riches is come to nought .
And every shipmaster , and all the company in ships , and sailors , and as many as trade by sea , stood afar off , 18 : 18 And cried when they saw the smoke of her burning , saying , What city is like unto this great city !
18 : 19 And they cast dust on their heads , and cried , weeping and wailing , saying , Alas , alas that great city , wherein were made rich all that had ships in the sea by reason of her costliness !
for in one hour is she made desolate .
18 : 20 Rejoice over her , thou heaven , and ye holy apostles and prophets ; for God hath avenged you on her .
18 : 21 And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone , and cast it into the sea , saying , Thus with violence shall that great city Babylon be thrown down , and shall be found no more at all .
18 : 22 And the voice of harpers , and musicians , and of pipers , and trumpeters , shall be heard no more at all in thee ; and no craftsman , of whatsoever craft he be , shall be found any more in thee ; and the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee ; 18 : 23 And the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee ; and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more at all in thee : for thy merchants were the great men of the earth ; for by thy sorceries were all nations deceived .
18 : 24 And in her was found the blood of prophets , and of saints , and of all that were slain upon the earth .
19 : 1 And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven , saying , Alleluia ; Salvation , and glory , and honour , and power , unto the Lord our God : 19 : 2 For true and righteous are his judgments : for he hath judged the great whore , which did corrupt the earth with her fornication , and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand .
19 : 3 And again they said , Alleluia And her smoke rose up for ever and ever .
19 : 4 And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and worshipped God that sat on the throne , saying , Amen ; Alleluia .
19 : 5 And a voice came out of the throne , saying , Praise our God , all ye his servants , and ye that fear him , both small and great .
19 : 6 And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude , and as the voice of many waters , and as the voice of mighty thunderings , saying , Alleluia : for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth .
19 : 7 Let us be glad and rejoice , and give honour to him : for the marriage of the Lamb is come , and his wife hath made herself ready .
19 : 8 And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen , clean and white : for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints .
19 : 9 And he saith unto me , Write , Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb .
And he saith unto me , These are the true sayings of God .
19 : 10 And I fell at his feet to worship him .
And he said unto me , See thou do it not : I am thy fellowservant , and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus : worship God : for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy .
19 : 11 And I saw heaven opened , and behold a white horse ; and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True , and in righteousness he doth judge and make war .
19 : 12 His eyes were as a flame of fire , and on his head were many crowns ; and he had a name written , that no man knew , but he himself .
19 : 13 And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood : and his name is called The Word of God .
19 : 14 And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses , clothed in fine linen , white and clean .
19 : 15 And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword , that with it he should smite the nations : and he shall rule them with a rod of iron : and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God .
19 : 16 And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written , KING OF KINGS , AND LORD OF LORDS .
19 : 17 And I saw an angel standing in the sun ; and he cried with a loud voice , saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven , Come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God ; 19 : 18 That ye may eat the flesh of kings , and the flesh of captains , and the flesh of mighty men , and the flesh of horses , and of them that sit on them , and the flesh of all men , both free and bond , both small and great .
19 : 19 And I saw the beast , and the kings of the earth , and their armies , gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse , and against his army .
19 : 20 And the beast was taken , and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him , with which he deceived them that had received the mark of the beast , and them that worshipped his image .
These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone .
19 : 21 And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse , which sword proceeded out of his mouth : and all the fowls were filled with their flesh .
20 : 1 And I saw an angel come down from heaven , having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand .
20 : 2 And he laid hold on the dragon , that old serpent , which is the Devil , and Satan , and bound him a thousand years , 20 : 3 And cast him into the bottomless pit , and shut him up , and set a seal upon him , that he should deceive the nations no more , till the thousand years should be fulfilled : and after that he must be loosed a little season .
20 : 4 And I saw thrones , and they sat upon them , and judgment was given unto them : and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus , and for the word of God , and which had not worshipped the beast , neither his image , neither had received his mark upon their foreheads , or in their hands ; and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years .
20 : 5 But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished .
This is the first resurrection .
20 : 6 Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection : on such the second death hath no power , but they shall be priests of God and of Christ , and shall reign with him a thousand years .
20 : 7 And when the thousand years are expired , Satan shall be loosed out of his prison , 20 : 8 And shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth , Gog , and Magog , to gather them together to battle : the number of whom is as the sand of the sea .
20 : 9 And they went up on the breadth of the earth , and compassed the camp of the saints about , and the beloved city : and fire came down from God out of heaven , and devoured them .
20 : 10 And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone , where the beast and the false prophet are , and shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever .
20 : 11 And I saw a great white throne , and him that sat on it , from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away ; and there was found no place for them .
20 : 12 And I saw the dead , small and great , stand before God ; and the books were opened : and another book was opened , which is the book of life : and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books , according to their works .
20 : 13 And the sea gave up the dead which were in it ; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them : and they were judged every man according to their works .
20 : 14 And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire .
This is the second death .
20 : 15 And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire .
21 : 1 And I saw a new heaven and a new earth : for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away ; and there was no more sea .
21 : 2 And I John saw the holy city , new Jerusalem , coming down from God out of heaven , prepared as a bride adorned for her husband .
21 : 3 And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying , Behold , the tabernacle of God is with men , and he will dwell with them , and they shall be his people , and God himself shall be with them , and be their God .
21 : 4 And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes ; and there shall be no more death , neither sorrow , nor crying , neither shall there be any more pain : for the former things are passed away .
21 : 5 And he that sat upon the throne said , Behold , I make all things new .
And he said unto me , Write : for these words are true and faithful .
21 : 6 And he said unto me , It is done .
I am Alpha and Omega , the beginning and the end .
I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely .
21 : 7 He that overcometh shall inherit all things ; and I will be his God , and he shall be my son .
21 : 8 But the fearful , and unbelieving , and the abominable , and murderers , and whoremongers , and sorcerers , and idolaters , and all liars , shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone : which is the second death .
21 : 9 And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the seven vials full of the seven last plagues , and talked with me , saying , Come hither , I will shew thee the bride , the Lamb ' s wife .
21 : 10 And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain , and shewed me that great city , the holy Jerusalem , descending out of heaven from God , 21 : 11 Having the glory of God : and her light was like unto a stone most precious , even like a jasper stone , clear as crystal ; 21 : 12 And had a wall great and high , and had twelve gates , and at the gates twelve angels , and names written thereon , which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel : 21 : 13 On the east three gates ; on the north three gates ; on the south three gates ; and on the west three gates .
21 : 14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations , and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb .
21 : 15 And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city , and the gates thereof , and the wall thereof .
21 : 16 And the city lieth foursquare , and the length is as large as the breadth : and he measured the city with the reed , twelve thousand furlongs .
The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal .
21 : 17 And he measured the wall thereof , an hundred and forty and four cubits , according to the measure of a man , that is , of the angel .
21 : 18 And the building of the wall of it was of jasper : and the city was pure gold , like unto clear glass .
21 : 19 And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with all manner of precious stones .
The first foundation was jasper ; the second , sapphire ; the third , a chalcedony ; the fourth , an emerald ; 21 : 20 The fifth , sardonyx ; the sixth , sardius ; the seventh , chrysolyte ; the eighth , beryl ; the ninth , a topaz ; the tenth , a chrysoprasus ; the eleventh , a jacinth ; the twelfth , an amethyst .
21 : 21 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls : every several gate was of one pearl : and the street of the city was pure gold , as it were transparent glass .
21 : 22 And I saw no temple therein : for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it .
21 : 23 And the city had no need of the sun , neither of the moon , to shine in it : for the glory of God did lighten it , and the Lamb is the light thereof .
21 : 24 And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it : and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour into it .
21 : 25 And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day : for there shall be no night there .
21 : 26 And they shall bring the glory and honour of the nations into it .
21 : 27 And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth , neither whatsoever worketh abomination , or maketh a lie : but they which are written in the Lamb ' s book of life .
22 : 1 And he shewed me a pure river of water of life , clear as crystal , proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb .
22 : 2 In the midst of the street of it , and on either side of the river , was there the tree of life , which bare twelve manner of fruits , and yielded her fruit every month : and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations .
22 : 3 And there shall be no more curse : but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it ; and his servants shall serve him : 22 : 4 And they shall see his face ; and his name shall be in their foreheads .
22 : 5 And there shall be no night there ; and they need no candle , neither light of the sun ; for the Lord God giveth them light : and they shall reign for ever and ever .
22 : 6 And he said unto me , These sayings are faithful and true : and the Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to shew unto his servants the things which must shortly be done .
22 : 7 Behold , I come quickly : blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book .
22 : 8 And I John saw these things , and heard them .
And when I had heard and seen , I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which shewed me these things .
22 : 9 Then saith he unto me , See thou do it not : for I am thy fellowservant , and of thy brethren the prophets , and of them which keep the sayings of this book : worship God .
22 : 10 And he saith unto me , Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book : for the time is at hand .
22 : 11 He that is unjust , let him be unjust still : and he which is filthy , let him be filthy still : and he that is righteous , let him be righteous still : and he that is holy , let him be holy still .
22 : 12 And , behold , I come quickly ; and my reward is with me , to give every man according as his work shall be .
22 : 13 I am Alpha and Omega , the beginning and the end , the first and the last .
22 : 14 Blessed are they that do his commandments , that they may have right to the tree of life , and may enter in through the gates into the city .
22 : 15 For without are dogs , and sorcerers , and whoremongers , and murderers , and idolaters , and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie .
22 : 16 I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches .
I am the root and the offspring of David , and the bright and morning star .
22 : 17 And the Spirit and the bride say , Come .
And let him that heareth say , Come .
And let him that is athirst come .
And whosoever will , let him take the water of life freely .
22 : 18 For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book , If any man shall add unto these things , God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book : 22 : 19 And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy , God shall take away his part out of the book of life , and out of the holy city , and from the things which are written in this book .
22 : 20 He which testifieth these things saith , Surely I come quickly .
Amen .
Even so , come , Lord Jesus .
22 : 21 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all .
Amen .
[ Poems by William Blake 1789 ]
SONGS OF INNOCENCE AND OF EXPERIENCE and THE BOOK of THEL
SONGS OF INNOCENCE
INTRODUCTION
Piping down the valleys wild , Piping songs of pleasant glee , On a cloud I saw a child , And he laughing said to me :
" Pipe a song about a Lamb !"
So I piped with merry cheer .
" Piper , pipe that song again ;" So I piped : he wept to hear .
" Drop thy pipe , thy happy pipe ; Sing thy songs of happy cheer :!"
So I sang the same again , While he wept with joy to hear .
" Piper , sit thee down and write In a book , that all may read ."
So he vanish ' d from my sight ; And I pluck ' d a hollow reed ,
And I made a rural pen , And I stain ' d the water clear , And I wrote my happy songs Every child may joy to hear .
THE SHEPHERD
How sweet is the Shepherd ' s sweet lot !
From the morn to the evening he stays ; He shall follow his sheep all the day , And his tongue shall be filled with praise .
For he hears the lambs ' innocent call , And he hears the ewes ' tender reply ; He is watching while they are in peace , For they know when their Shepherd is nigh .
THE ECHOING GREEN
The sun does arise , And make happy the skies ; The merry bells ring To welcome the Spring ; The skylark and thrush , The birds of the bush , Sing louder around To the bells ' cheerful sound ; While our sports shall be seen On the echoing Green .
Old John , with white hair , Does laugh away care , Sitting under the oak , Among the old folk .
They laugh at our play , And soon they all say , " Such , such were the joys When we all -- girls and boys -- In our youth - time were seen On the echoing Green ."
Till the little ones , weary , No more can be merry : The sun does descend , And our sports have an end .
Round the laps of their mothers Many sisters and brothers , Like birds in their nest , Are ready for rest , And sport no more seen On the darkening green .
THE LAMB
Little Lamb , who make thee Dost thou know who made thee , Gave thee life , and bid thee feed By the stream and o ' er the mead ; Gave thee clothing of delight , Softest clothing , wolly , bright ; Gave thee such a tender voice , Making all the vales rejoice ?
Little Lamb , who made thee ?
Dost thou know who made thee ?
Little Lamb , I ' ll tell thee ; Little Lamb , I ' ll tell thee : He is called by thy name , For He calls Himself a Lamb He is meek , and He is mild , He became a little child .
I a child , and thou a lamb , We are called by His name .
Little Lamb , God bless thee !
Little Lamb , God bless thee !
THE LITTLE BLACK BOY
My mother bore me in the southern wild , And I am black , but oh my soul is white !
White as an angel is the English child , But I am black , as if bereaved of light .
My mother taught me underneath a tree , And , sitting down before the heat of day , She took me on her lap and kissed me , And , pointed to the east , began to say :
" Look on the rising sun : there God does live , And gives His light , and gives His heat away , And flowers and trees and beasts and men receive Comfort in morning , joy in the noonday .
" And we are put on earth a little space , That we may learn to bear the beams of love And these black bodies and this sunburnt face Is but a cloud , and like a shady grove .
" For when our souls have learn ' d the heat to bear , The cloud will vanish , we shall hear His voice , Saying , ' Come out from the grove , my love and care And round my golden tent like lambs rejoice ',"
Thus did my mother say , and kissed me ; And thus I say to little English boy .
When I from black and he from white cloud free , And round the tent of God like lambs we joy
I ' ll shade him from the heat till he can bear To lean in joy upon our Father ' s knee ; And then I ' ll stand and stroke his silver hair , And be like him , and he will then love me .
THE BLOSSOM
Merry , merry sparrow !
Under leaves so green A happy blossom Sees you , swift as arrow , Seek your cradle narrow , Near my bosom .
Pretty , pretty robin !
Under leaves so green A happy blossom Hears you sobbing , sobbing , Pretty , pretty robin , Near my bosom .
THE CHIMNEY - SWEEPER
When my mother died I was very young , And my father sold me while yet my tongue Could scarcely cry " Weep !
weep !
weep !
weep !"
So your chimneys I sweep , and in soot I sleep .
There ' s little Tom Dacre , who cried when his head , That curled like a lamb ' s back , was shaved ; so I said , " Hush , Tom !
never mind it , for , when your head ' s bare , You know that the soot cannot spoil your white hair ."
And so he was quiet , and that very night , As Tom was a - sleeping , he had such a sight !
-- That thousands of sweepers , Dick , Joe , Ned , and Jack , Were all of them locked up in coffins of black .
And by came an angel , who had a bright key , And he opened the coffins , and let them all free ; Then down a green plain , leaping , laughing , they run , And wash in a river , and shine in the sun .
Then naked and white , all their bags left behind , They rise upon clouds , and sport in the wind ; And the Angel told Tom , if he ' d be a good boy , He ' d have God for his father , and never want joy .
And so Tom awoke , and we rose in the dark , And got with our bags and our brushes to work .
Though the morning was cold , Tom was happy and warm : So , if all do their duty , they need not fear harm .
THE LITTLE BOY LOST
" Father , father , where are you going ?
Oh do not walk so fast !
Speak , father , speak to you little boy , Or else I shall be lost ."
The night was dark , no father was there , The child was wet with dew ; The mire was deep , and the child did weep , And away the vapour flew .
THE LITTLE BOY FOUND
The little boy lost in the lonely fen , Led by the wandering light , Began to cry , but God , ever nigh , Appeared like his father , in white .
He kissed the child , and by the hand led , And to his mother brought , Who in sorrow pale , through the lonely dale , The little boy weeping sought .
LAUGHING SONG
When the green woods laugh with the voice of joy , And the dimpling stream runs laughing by ; When the air does laugh with our merry wit , And the green hill laughs with the noise of it ;
when the meadows laugh with lively green , And the grasshopper laughs in the merry scene , When Mary and Susan and Emily With their sweet round mouths sing " Ha , ha he !"
When the painted birds laugh in the shade , Where our table with cherries and nuts is spread : Come live , and be merry , and join with me , To sing the sweet chorus of " Ha , ha , he !"
A SONG
Sweet dreams , form a shade O ' er my lovely infant ' s head !
Sweet dreams of pleasant streams By happy , silent , moony beams !
Sweet Sleep , with soft down Weave thy brows an infant crown Sweet Sleep , angel mild , Hover o ' er my happy child !
Sweet smiles , in the night Hover over my delight !
Sweet smiles , mother ' s smile , All the livelong night beguile .
Sweet moans , dovelike sighs , Chase not slumber from thine eyes !
Sweet moan , sweeter smile , All the dovelike moans beguile .
Sleep , sleep , happy child !
All creation slept and smiled .
Sleep , sleep , happy sleep , While o ' er thee doth mother weep .
Sweet babe , in thy face Holy image I can trace ; Sweet babe , once like thee Thy Maker lay , and wept for me :
Wept for me , for thee , for all , When He was an infant small .
Thou His image ever see , Heavenly face that smiles on thee !
Smiles on thee , on me , on all , Who became an infant small ; Infant smiles are his own smiles ; Heaven and earth to peace beguiles .
DIVINE IMAGE
To Mercy , Pity , Peace , and Love , All pray in their distress , And to these virtues of delight Return their thankfulness .
For Mercy , Pity , Peace , and Love , Is God our Father dear ; And Mercy , Pity , Peace , and Love , Is man , his child and care .
For Mercy has a human heart Pity , a human face ; And Love , the human form divine ; And Peace , the human dress .
Then every man , of every clime , That prays in his distress , Prays to the human form divine : Love , Mercy , Pity , Peace .
And all must love the human form , In heathen , Turk , or Jew .
Where Mercy , Love , and Pity dwell , There God is dwelling too .
HOLY THURSDAY
' Twas on a Holy Thursday , their innocent faces clean , Came children walking two and two , in read , and blue , and green : Grey - headed beadles walked before , with wands as white as snow , Till into the high dome of Paul ' s they like Thames waters flow .
Oh what a multitude they seemed , these flowers of London town !
Seated in companies they sit , with radiance all their own .
The hum of multitudes was there , but multitudes of lambs , Thousands of little boys and girls raising their innocent hands .
Now like a mighty wild they raise to heaven the voice of song , Or like harmonious thunderings the seats of heaven among : Beneath them sit the aged man , wise guardians of the poor .
Then cherish pity , lest you drive an angel from your door .
NIGHT
The sun descending in the west , The evening star does shine ; The birds are silent in their nest , And I must seek for mine .
The moon , like a flower In heaven ' s high bower , With silent delight , Sits and smiles on the night .
Farewell , green fields and happy grove , Where flocks have ta ' en delight .
Where lambs have nibbled , silent move The feet of angels bright ; Unseen they pour blessing , And joy without ceasing , On each bud and blossom , And each sleeping bosom .
They look in every thoughtless nest Where birds are covered warm ; They visit caves of every beast , To keep them all from harm : If they see any weeping That should have been sleeping , They pour sleep on their head , And sit down by their bed .
When wolves and tigers howl for prey , They pitying stand and weep ; Seeking to drive their thirst away , And keep them from the sheep .
But , if they rush dreadful , The angels , most heedful , Receive each mild spirit , New worlds to inherit .
And there the lion ' s ruddy eyes Shall flow with tears of gold : And pitying the tender cries , And walking round the fold : Saying : " Wrath by His meekness , And , by His health , sickness , Are driven away From our immortal day .
" And now beside thee , bleating lamb , I can lie down and sleep , Or think on Him who bore thy name , Graze after thee , and weep .
For , washed in life ' s river , My bright mane for ever Shall shine like the gold , As I guard o ' er the fold ."
SPRING
Sound the flute !
Now it ' s mute !
Bird ' s delight , Day and night , Nightingale , In the dale , Lark in sky ,-- Merrily , Merrily merrily , to welcome in the year .
Little boy , Full of joy ; Little girl , Sweet and small ; Cock does crow , So do you ; Merry voice , Infant noise ; Merrily , merrily , to welcome in the year .
Little lamb , Here I am ; Come and lick My white neck ; Let me pull Your soft wool ; Let me kiss Your soft face ; Merrily , merrily , to welcome in the year .
NURSE ' S SONG
When the voices of children are heard on the green , And laughing is heard on the hill , My heart is at rest within my breast , And everything else is still .
" Then come home , my children , the sun is gone down , And the dews of night arise ; Come , come , leave off play , and let us away , Till the morning appears in the skies ."
" No , no , let us play , for it is yet day , And we cannot go to sleep ; Besides , in the sky the little birds fly , And the hills are all covered with sheep ."
" Well , well , go and play till the light fades away , And then go home to bed ."
The little ones leaped , and shouted , and laughed , And all the hills echoed .
INFANT JOY
" I have no name ; I am but two days old ."
What shall I call thee ?
" I happy am , Joy is my name ."
Sweet joy befall thee !
Pretty joy !
Sweet joy , but two days old .
Sweet Joy I call thee : Thou dost smile , I sing the while ; Sweet joy befall thee !
A DREAM
Once a dream did weave a shade O ' er my angel - guarded bed , That an emmet lost its way Where on grass methought I lay .
Troubled , wildered , and forlorn , Dark , benighted , travel - worn , Over many a tangle spray , All heart - broke , I heard her say :
" Oh my children !
do they cry , Do they hear their father sigh ?
Now they look abroad to see , Now return and weep for me ."
Pitying , I dropped a tear : But I saw a glow - worm near , Who replied , " What wailing wight Calls the watchman of the night ?
" I am set to light the ground , While the beetle goes his round : Follow now the beetle ' s hum ; Little wanderer , hie thee home !"
ON ANOTHER ' S SORROW
Can I see another ' s woe , And not be in sorrow too ?
Can I see another ' s grief , And not seek for kind relief ?
Can I see a falling tear , And not feel my sorrow ' s share ?
Can a father see his child Weep , nor be with sorrow filled ?
Can a mother sit and hear An infant groan , an infant fear ?
No , no !
never can it be !
Never , never can it be !
And can He who smiles on all Hear the wren with sorrows small , Hear the small bird ' s grief and care , Hear the woes that infants bear --
And not sit beside the next , Pouring pity in their breast , And not sit the cradle near , Weeping tear on infant ' s tear ?
And not sit both night and day , Wiping all our tears away ?
Oh no !
never can it be !
Never , never can it be !
He doth give his joy to all : He becomes an infant small , He becomes a man of woe , He doth feel the sorrow too .
Think not thou canst sigh a sigh , And thy Maker is not by : Think not thou canst weep a tear , And thy Maker is not year .
Oh He gives to us his joy , That our grief He may destroy : Till our grief is fled an gone He doth sit by us and moan .
SONGS OF EXPERIENCE
INTRODUCTION
Hear the voice of the Bard , Who present , past , and future , sees ; Whose ears have heard The Holy Word That walked among the ancient tree ;
Calling the lapsed soul , And weeping in the evening dew ; That might control The starry pole , And fallen , fallen light renew !
" O Earth , O Earth , return !
Arise from out the dewy grass !
Night is worn , And the morn Rises from the slumbrous mass .
" Turn away no more ; Why wilt thou turn away ?
The starry floor , The watery shore , Are given thee till the break of day ."
EARTH ' S ANSWER
Earth raised up her head From the darkness dread and drear , Her light fled , Stony , dread , And her locks covered with grey despair .
" Prisoned on watery shore , Starry jealousy does keep my den Cold and hoar ; Weeping o ' re , I hear the father of the ancient men .
" Selfish father of men !
Cruel , jealous , selfish fear !
Can delight , Chained in night , The virgins of youth and morning bear ?
" Does spring hide its joy , When buds and blossoms grow ?
Does the sower Sow by night , Or the plowman in darkness plough ?
" Break this heavy chain , That does freeze my bones around !
Selfish , vain , Eternal bane , That free love with bondage bound ."
THE CLOD AND THE PEBBLE
" Love seeketh not itself to please , Nor for itself hath any care , But for another gives it ease , And builds a heaven in hell ' s despair ."
So sang a little clod of clay , Trodden with the cattle ' s feet , But a pebble of the brook Warbled out these metres meet :
" Love seeketh only Self to please , To bind another to its delight , Joys in another ' s loss of ease , And builds a hell in heaven ' s despite ."
HOLY THURSDAY
Is this a holy thing to see In a rich and fruitful land , -- Babes reduced to misery , Fed with cold and usurous hand ?
Is that trembling cry a song ?
Can it be a song of joy ?
And so many children poor ?
It is a land of poverty !
And their son does never shine , And their fields are bleak and bare , And their ways are filled with thorns : It is eternal winter there .
For where ' er the sun does shine , And where ' er the rain does fall , Babes should never hunger there , Nor poverty the mind appall .
THE LITTLE GIRL LOST
In futurity I prophetic see That the earth from sleep ( Grave the sentence deep )
Shall arise , and seek for her Maker meek ; And the desert wild Become a garden mild .
In the southern clime , Where the summer ' s prime Never fades away , Lovely Lyca lay .
Seven summers old Lovely Lyca told .
She had wandered long , Hearing wild birds ' song .
" Sweet sleep , come to me Underneath this tree ; Do father , mother , weep ?
Where can Lyca sleep ?
" Lost in desert wild Is your little child .
How can Lyca sleep If her mother weep ?
" If her heart does ache , Then let Lyca wake ; If my mother sleep , Lyca shall not weep .
" Frowning , frowning night , O ' er this desert bright Let thy moon arise , While I close my eyes ."
Sleeping Lyca lay While the beasts of prey , Come from caverns deep , Viewed the maid asleep .
The kingly lion stood , And the virgin viewed : Then he gambolled round O ' er the hallowed ground .
Leopards , tigers , play Round her as she lay ; While the lion old Bowed his mane of gold ,
And her breast did lick And upon her neck , From his eyes of flame , Ruby tears there came ;
While the lioness Loosed her slender dress , And naked they conveyed To caves the sleeping maid .
THE LITTLE GIRL FOUND
All the night in woe Lyca ' s parents go Over valleys deep , While the deserts weep .
Tired and woe - begone , Hoarse with making moan , Arm in arm , seven days They traced the desert ways .
Seven nights they sleep Among shadows deep , And dream they see their child Starved in desert wild .
Pale through pathless ways The fancied image strays , Famished , weeping , weak , With hollow piteous shriek .
Rising from unrest , The trembling woman presse With feet of weary woe ; She could no further go .
In his arms he bore Her , armed with sorrow sore ; Till before their way A couching lion lay .
Turning back was vain : Soon his heavy mane Bore them to the ground , Then he stalked around ,
Smelling to his prey ; But their fears allay When he licks their hands , And silent by them stands .
They look upon his eyes , Filled with deep surprise ; And wondering behold A spirit armed in gold .
On his head a crown , On his shoulders down Flowed his golden hair .
Gone was all their care .
" Follow me ," he said ; " Weep not for the maid ; In my palace deep , Lyca lies asleep ."
Then they followed Where the vision led , And saw their sleeping child Among tigers wild .
To this day they dwell In a lonely dell , Nor fear the wolvish howl Nor the lion ' s growl .
THE CHIMNEY SWEEPER
A little black thing in the snow , Crying " weep !
weep !"
in notes of woe !
" Where are thy father and mother ?
Say !"
-- " They are both gone up to the church to pray .
" Because I was happy upon the heath , And smiled among the winter ' s snow , They clothed me in the clothes of death , And taught me to sing the notes of woe .
" And because I am happy and dance and sing , They think they have done me no injury , And are gone to praise God and his priest and king , Who make up a heaven of our misery ."
NURSE ' S SONG
When voices of children are heard on the green , And whisperings are in the dale , The days of my youth rise fresh in my mind , My face turns green and pale .
Then come home , my children , the sun is gone down , And the dews of night arise ; Your spring and your day are wasted in play , And your winter and night in disguise .
THE SICK ROSE
O rose , thou art sick !
The invisible worm , That flies in the night , In the howling storm ,
Has found out thy bed Of crimson joy , And his dark secret love Does thy life destroy .
THE FLY
Little Fly , Thy summer ' s play My thoughtless hand Has brushed away .
Am not I A fly like thee ?
Or art not thou A man like me ?
For I dance And drink , and sing , Till some blind hand Shall brush my wing .
If thought is life And strength and breath And the want Of thought is death ;
Then am I A happy fly , If I live , Or if I die .
THE ANGEL
I dreamt a dream !
What can it mean ?
And that I was a maiden Queen Guarded by an Angel mild : Witless woe was ne ' er beguiled !
And I wept both night and day , And he wiped my tears away ; And I wept both day and night , And hid from him my heart ' s delight .
So he took his wings , and fled ; Then the morn blushed rosy red .
I dried my tears , and armed my fears With ten - thousand shields and spears .
Soon my Angel came again ; I was armed , he came in vain ; For the time of youth was fled , And grey hairs were on my head .
THE TIGER
Tiger , tiger , burning bright In the forest of the night , What immortal hand or eye Could Frame thy fearful symmetry ?
In what distant deeps or skies Burnt the fire of thine eyes ?
On what wings dare he aspire ?
What the hand dare seize the fire ?
And what shoulder and what art Could twist the sinews of thy heart ?
And , when thy heart began to beat , What dread hand and what dread feet ?
What the hammer ?
what the chain ?
In what furnace was thy brain ?
What the anvil ?
what dread grasp Dare its deadly terrors clasp ?
When the stars threw down their spears , And watered heaven with their tears , Did he smile his work to see ?
Did he who made the lamb make thee ?
Tiger , tiger , burning bright In the forests of the night , What immortal hand or eye Dare frame thy fearful symmetry ?
MY PRETTY ROSE TREE
A flower was offered to me , Such a flower as May never bore ; But I said " I ' ve a pretty rose tree ," And I passed the sweet flower o ' er .
Then I went to my pretty rose tree , To tend her by day and by night ; But my rose turned away with jealousy , And her thorns were my only delight .
AH SUNFLOWER
Ah Sunflower , weary of time , Who countest the steps of the sun ; Seeking after that sweet golden clime Where the traveller ' s journey is done ;
Where the Youth pined away with desire , And the pale virgin shrouded in snow , Arise from their graves , and aspire Where my Sunflower wishes to go !
THE LILY
The modest Rose puts forth a thorn , The humble sheep a threat ' ning horn : While the Lily white shall in love delight , Nor a thorn nor a threat stain her beauty bright .
THE GARDEN OF LOVE
I laid me down upon a bank , Where Love lay sleeping ; I heard among the rushes dank Weeping , weeping .
Then I went to the heath and the wild , To the thistles and thorns of the waste ; And they told me how they were beguiled , Driven out , and compelled to the chaste .
I went to the Garden of Love , And saw what I never had seen ; A Chapel was built in the midst , Where I used to play on the green .
And the gates of this Chapel were shut And " Thou shalt not ," writ over the door ; So I turned to the Garden of Love That so many sweet flowers bore .
And I saw it was filled with graves , And tombstones where flowers should be ; And priests in black gowns were walking their rounds , And binding with briars my joys and desires .
THE LITTLE VAGABOND
Dear mother , dear mother , the Church is cold ; But the Alehouse is healthy , and pleasant , and warm .
Besides , I can tell where I am used well ; The poor parsons with wind like a blown bladder swell .
But , if at the Church they would give us some ale , And a pleasant fire our souls to regale , We ' d sing and we ' d pray all the livelong day , Nor ever once wish from the Church to stray .
Then the Parson might preach , and drink , and sing , And we ' d be as happy as birds in the spring ; And modest Dame Lurch , who is always at church , Would not have bandy children , nor fasting , nor birch .
And God , like a father , rejoicing to see His children as pleasant and happy as he , Would have no more quarrel with the Devil or the barrel , But kiss him , and give him both drink and apparel .
LONDON
I wandered through each chartered street , Near where the chartered Thames does flow , A mark in every face I meet , Marks of weakness , marks of woe .
In every cry of every man , In every infant ' s cry of fear , In every voice , in every ban , The mind - forged manacles I hear :
How the chimney - sweeper ' s cry Every blackening church appals , And the hapless soldier ' s sigh Runs in blood down palace - walls .
But most , through midnight streets I hear How the youthful harlot ' s curse Blasts the new - born infant ' s tear , And blights with plagues the marriage - hearse .
THE HUMAN ABSTRACT
Pity would be no more If we did not make somebody poor , And Mercy no more could be If all were as happy as we .
And mutual fear brings Peace , Till the selfish loves increase Then Cruelty knits a snare , And spreads his baits with care .
He sits down with his holy fears , And waters the ground with tears ; Then Humility takes its root Underneath his foot .
Soon spreads the dismal shade Of Mystery over his head , And the caterpillar and fly Feed on the Mystery .
And it bears the fruit of Deceit , Ruddy and sweet to eat , And the raven his nest has made In its thickest shade .
The gods of the earth and sea Sought through nature to find this tree , But their search was all in vain : There grows one in the human Brain .
INFANT SORROW
My mother groaned , my father wept : Into the dangerous world I leapt , Helpless , naked , piping loud , Like a fiend hid in a cloud .
Struggling in my father ' s hands , Striving against my swaddling - bands , Bound and weary , I thought best To sulk upon my mother ' s breast .
A POISON TREE
I was angry with my friend : I told my wrath , my wrath did end .
I was angry with my foe : I told it not , my wrath did grow .
And I watered it in fears Night and morning with my tears , And I sunned it with smiles And with soft deceitful wiles .
And it grew both day and night , Till it bore an apple bright , And my foe beheld it shine , and he knew that it was mine , --
And into my garden stole When the night had veiled the pole ; In the morning , glad , I see My foe outstretched beneath the tree .
A LITTLE BOY LOST
" Nought loves another as itself , Nor venerates another so , Nor is it possible to thought A greater than itself to know .
" And , father , how can I love you Or any of my brothers more ?
I love you like the little bird That picks up crumbs around the door ."
The Priest sat by and heard the child ; In trembling zeal he seized his hair , He led him by his little coat , And all admired the priestly care .
And standing on the altar high , " Lo , what a fiend is here !
said he : " One who sets reason up for judge Of our most holy mystery ."
The weeping child could not be heard , The weeping parents wept in vain : They stripped him to his little shirt , And bound him in an iron chain ,
And burned him in a holy place Where many had been burned before ; The weeping parents wept in vain .
Are such thing done on Albion ' s shore ?
A LITTLE GIRL LOST
Children of the future age , Reading this indignant page , Know that in a former time Love , sweet love , was thought a crime .
In the age of gold , Free from winter ' s cold , Youth and maiden bright , To the holy light , Naked in the sunny beams delight .
Once a youthful pair , Filled with softest care , Met in garden bright Where the holy light Had just removed the curtains of the night .
Then , in rising day , On the grass they play ; Parents were afar , Strangers came not near , And the maiden soon forgot her fear .
Tired with kisses sweet , They agree to meet When the silent sleep Waves o ' er heaven ' s deep , And the weary tired wanderers weep .
To her father white Came the maiden bright ; But his loving look , Like the holy book All her tender limbs with terror shook .
" Ona , pale and weak , To thy father speak !
Oh the trembling fear !
Oh the dismal care That shakes the blossoms of my hoary hair !"
THE SCHOOLBOY
I love to rise on a summer morn , When birds are singing on every tree ; The distant huntsman winds his horn , And the skylark sings with me : Oh what sweet company !
But to go to school in a summer morn , -- Oh it drives all joy away !
Under a cruel eye outworn , The little ones spend the day In sighing and dismay .
Ah then at times I drooping sit , And spend many an anxious hour ; Nor in my book can I take delight , Nor sit in learning ' s bower , Worn through with the dreary shower .
How can the bird that is born for joy Sit in a cage and sing ?
How can a child , when fears annoy , But droop his tender wing , And forget his youthful spring ?
Oh father and mother , if buds are nipped , And blossoms blown away ; And if the tender plants are stripped Of their joy in the springing day , By sorrow and care ' s dismay , --
How shall the summer arise in joy , Or the summer fruits appear ?
Or how shall we gather what griefs destroy , Or bless the mellowing year , When the blasts of winter appear ?
TO TERZAH
Whate ' er is born of mortal birth Must be consumed with the earth , To rise from generation free : Then what have I to do with thee ?
The sexes sprang from shame and pride , Blown in the morn , in evening died ; But mercy changed death into sleep ; The sexes rose to work and weep .
Thou , mother of my mortal part , With cruelty didst mould my heart , And with false self - deceiving tears Didst bind my nostrils , eyes , and ears ,
Didst close my tongue in senseless clay , And me to mortal life betray .
The death of Jesus set me free : Then what have I to do with thee ?
THE VOICE OF THE ANCIENT BARD
Youth of delight !
come hither And see the opening morn , Image of Truth new - born .
Doubt is fled , and clouds of reason , Dark disputes and artful teazing .
Folly is an endless maze ; Tangled roots perplex her ways ; How many have fallen there !
They stumble all night over bones of the dead ; And feel -- they know not what but care ; And wish to lead others , when they should be led .
APPENDIX
A DIVINE IMAGE
Cruelty has a human heart , And Jealousy a human face ; Terror the human form divine , And Secresy the human dress .
The human dress is forged iron , The human form a fiery forge , The human face a furnace sealed , The human heart its hungry gorge .
NOTE : Though written and engraved by Blake , " A DIVINE IMAGE " was never included in the SONGS OF INNOCENCE AND OF EXPERIENCE .
William Blake ' s
THE BOOK of THEL
THEL ' S Motto
Does the Eagle know what is in the pit ?
Or wilt thou go ask the Mole : Can Wisdom be put in a silver rod ?
Or Love in a golden bowl ?
THE BOOK of THEL
The Author & Printer Willm .
Blake .
1780
THEL
I
The daughters of Mne Seraphim led round their sunny flocks , All but the youngest : she in paleness sought the secret air .
To fade away like morning beauty from her mortal day : Down by the river of Adona her soft voice is heard ; And thus her gentle lamentation falls like morning dew .
O life of this our spring !
why fades the lotus of the water ?
Why fade these children of the spring ?
born but to smile & fall .
Ah !
Thel is like a watry bow , and like a parting cloud , Like a reflection in a glass : like shadows in the water Like dreams of infants , like a smile upon an infants face .
Like the doves voice , like transient day , like music in the air : Ah !
gentle may I lay me down and gentle rest my head .
And gentle sleep the sleep of death , and gently hear the voice Of him that walketh in the garden in the evening time .
The Lilly of the valley breathing in the humble grass Answerd the lovely maid and said : I am a watry weed , And I am very small and love to dwell in lowly vales : So weak the gilded butterfly scarce perches on my head Yet I am visited from heaven and he that smiles on all Walks in the valley , and each morn over me spreads his hand Saying , rejoice thou humble grass , thou new - born lily flower .
Thou gentle maid of silent valleys and of modest brooks : For thou shall be clothed in light , and fed with morning manna : Till summers heat melts thee beside the fountains and the springs To flourish in eternal vales : they why should Thel complain .
Why should the mistress of the vales of Har , utter a sigh .
She ceasd & smild in tears , then sat down in her silver shrine .
Thel answerd , O thou little virgin of the peaceful valley .
Giving to those that cannot crave , the voiceless , the o ' er tired The breath doth nourish the innocent lamb , he smells the milky garments He crops thy flowers while thou sittest smiling in his face , Wiping his mild and meekin mouth from all contagious taints .
Thy wine doth purify the golden honey ; thy perfume .
Which thou dost scatter on every little blade of grass that springs Revives the milked cow , & tames the fire - breathing steed .
But Thel is like a faint cloud kindled at the rising sun : I vanish from my pearly throne , and who shall find my place .
Queen of the vales the Lily answered , ask the tender cloud , And it shall tell thee why it glitters in the morning sky .
And why it scatters its bright beauty thro the humid air .
Descend O little cloud & hover before the eyes of Thel .
The Cloud descended and the Lily bowd her modest head : And went to mind her numerous charge among the verdant grass .
II .
O little Cloud the virgin said , I charge thee to tell me Why thou complainest now when in one hour thou fade away : Then we shall seek thee but not find : ah Thel is like to thee .
I pass away , yet I complain , and no one hears my voice .
The Cloud then shewd his golden head & his bright form emerg ' d .
Hovering and glittering on the air before the face of Thel .
O virgin know ' st thou not our steeds drink of the golden springs Where Luvah doth renew his horses : lookst thou on my youth .
And fearest thou because I vanish and am seen no more .
Nothing remains ; O maid I tell thee , when I pass away .
It is to tenfold life , to love , to peace , and raptures holy : Unseen descending , weigh my light wings upon balmy flowers : And court the fair eyed dew , to take me to her shining tent The weeping virgin , trembling kneels before the risen sun .
Till we arise link ' d in a golden band and never part : But walk united bearing food to all our tender flowers .
Dost thou O little cloud ?
I fear that I am not like thee : For I walk through the vales of Har , and smell the sweetest flowers : But I feed not the little flowers : I hear the warbling birds , But I feed not the warbling birds , they fly and seek their food : But Thel delights in these no more because I fade away And all shall say , without a use this shining women liv ' d , Or did she only live to be at death the food of worms .
The Cloud reclind upon his airy throne and answerd thus .
Then if thou art the food of worms , O virgin of the skies , How great thy use , how great thy blessing , every thing that lives .
Lives not alone nor or itself : fear not and I will call , The weak worm from its lowly bed , and thou shalt hear its voice .
Come forth worm and the silent valley , to thy pensive queen .
The helpless worm arose and sat upon the Lillys leaf , And the bright Cloud saild on , to find his partner in the vale .
III .
Then Thel astonish ' d view ' d the Worm upon its dewy bed .
Art thou a Worm ?
image of weakness .
art thou but a Worm ?
I see thee like an infant wrapped in the Lillys leaf ; Ah weep not little voice , thou can ' st not speak , but thou can ' st weep : Is this a Worm ?
I see they lay helpless & naked : weeping And none to answer , none to cherish thee with mothers smiles .
The Clod of Clay heard the Worms voice & rais ' d her pitying head : She bowd over the weeping infant , and her life exhald In milky fondness , then on Thel she fix ' d her humble eyes
O beauty of the vales of Har , we live not for ourselves , Thou seest me the meanest thing , and so I am indeed : My bosom of itself is cold , and of itself is dark ,
But he that loves the lowly , pours his oil upon my head And kisses me , and binds his nuptial bands around my breast .
And says ; Thou mother of my children , I have loved thee And I have given thee a crown that none can take away .
But how this is sweet maid , I know not , and I cannot know I ponder , and I cannot ponder ; yet I live and love .
The daughter of beauty wip ' d her pitying tears with her white veil , And said , Alas !
I knew not this , and therefore did I weep : That God would love a Worm I knew , and punish the evil foot That wilful bruis ' d its helpless form : but that he cherish ' d it With milk and oil I never knew , and therefore did I weep , And I complaind in the mild air , because I fade away .
And lay me down in thy cold bed , and leave my shining lot .
Queen of the vales , the matron Clay answered : I heard thy sighs .
And all thy moans flew o ' er my roof , but I have call ' d them down : Wilt thou O Queen enter my house , tis given thee to enter , And to return : fear nothing , enter with thy virgin feet .
IV .
The eternal gates terrific porter lifted the northern bar : Thel enter ' d in & saw the secrets of the land unknown ; She saw the couches of the dead , & where the fibrous roots Of every heart on earth infixes deep its restless twists : A land of sorrows & of tears where never smile was seen .
She wandered in the land of clouds thro ' valleys dark , listning Dolors & lamentations : waiting oft beside the dewy grave She stood in silence , listning to the voices of the ground , Till to her own grave plot she came , & there she sat down .
And heard this voice of sorrow breathed from the hollow pit .
Why cannot the Ear be closed to its own destruction ?
Or the glistening Eye to the poison of a smile !
Why are Eyelids stord with arrows ready drawn , Where a thousand fighting men in ambush lie !
Or an Eye of gifts & graces showring fruits & coined gold !
Why a Tongue impress ' d with honey from every wind ?
Why an Ear , a whirlpool fierce to draw creations in ?
Why a Nostril wide inhaling terror trembling & affright Why a tender curb upon the youthful burning boy ?
Why a little curtain of flesh on the bed of our desire ?
The Virgin started from her seat , & with a shriek , Fled back unhinderd till she came into the vales of Har
[ Stories to Tell to Children by Sara Cone Bryant 1918 ]
TWO LITTLE RIDDLES IN RHYME
There ' s a garden that I ken , Full of little gentlemen ; Little caps of blue they wear , And green ribbons , very fair .
( Flax .)
From house to house he goes , A messenger small and slight , And whether it rains or snows , He sleeps outside in the night .
( The path .)
THE LITTLE YELLOW TULIP
Once there was a little yellow Tulip , and she lived down in a little dark house under the ground .
One day she was sitting there , all by herself , and it was very still .
Suddenly , she heard a little _tap , tap , tap_ , at the door .
" Who is that ?"
she said .
" It ' s the Rain , and I want to come in ," said a soft , sad , little voice .
" No , you can ' t come in ," the little Tulip said .
By and by she heard another little _tap , tap , tap_ on the window - pane .
" Who is there ?"
she said .
The same soft little voice answered , " It ' s the Rain , and I want to come in !"
" No , you can ' t come in ," said the little Tulip .
Then it was very still for a long time .
At last , there came a little rustling , whispering sound , all round the window : _rustle , whisper , whisper_ .
" Who is there ?"
said the little Tulip .
" It ' s the Sunshine ," said a little , soft , cheery voice , " and I want to come in !"
" N -- no ," said the little Tulip , " you can ' t come in ."
And she sat still again .
Pretty soon she heard the sweet little rustling noise at the keyhole .
" Who is there ?"
she said .
" It ' s the Sunshine ," said the cheery little voice , " and I want to come in , I want to come in !"
" No , no ," said the little Tulip , " you cannot come in ."
By and by , as she sat so still , she heard _tap , tap , tap_ , and _rustle , whisper , rustle_ , up and down the window - pane , and on the door and at the keyhole .
" _Who is there ? _ " she said .
" It ' s the Rain and the Sun , the Rain and the Sun ," said two little voices , together , " and we want to come in !
We want to come in !
We want to come in !"
" Dear , dear !"
said the little Tulip , " if there are two of you , I s ' pose I shall have to let you in ."
So she opened the door a little wee crack , and in they came .
And one took one of her little hands , and the other took her other little hand , and they ran , ran , ran with her right up to the top of the ground .
Then they said ,--
" Poke your head through !"
So she poked her head through ; and she was in the midst of a beautiful garden .
It was early springtime , and few other flowers were to be seen ; but she had the birds to sing to her and the sun to shine upon her pretty yellow head .
She was so pleased , too , when the children exclaimed with pleasure that now they knew that the beautiful spring had come !
THE COCK - A - DOO - DLE - DOO
A very little boy made this story up " out of his head ," and told it to his papa .
I think you littlest ones will like it ; I do .
Once upon a time there was a little boy , and he wanted to be a cock - a - doo - dle - doo .
So he was a cock - a - doo - dle - doo .
And he wanted to fly up into the sky .
So he did fly up into the sky .
And he wanted to get wings and a tail So he did get some wings and a tail .
THE CLOUD
One hot summer morning a little Cloud rose out of the sea and floated lightly and happily across the blue sky .
Far below lay the earth , brown , dry , and desolate , from drought .
The little Cloud could see the poor people of the earth working and suffering in the hot fields , while she herself floated on the morning breeze , hither and thither , without a care .
" Oh , if I could only help the poor people down there !"
she thought .
" If I could but make their work easier , or give the hungry ones food , or the thirsty a drink !"
And as the day passed , and the Cloud became larger , this wish to do something for the people of earth was ever greater in her heart .
On earth it grew hotter and hotter ; the sun burned down so fiercely that the people were fainting in its rays ; it seemed as if they must die of heat , and yet they were obliged to go on with their work , for they were very poor .
Sometimes they stood and looked up at the Cloud , as if they were praying , and saying , " Ah , if you could help us !"
" I will help you ; I will !"
said the Cloud .
And she began to sink softly down toward the earth .
But suddenly , as she floated down , she remembered something which had been told her when she was a tiny Cloud - child , in the lap of Mother Ocean : it had been whispered that if the Clouds go too near the earth they die .
When she remembered this she held herself from sinking , and swayed here and there on the breeze , thinking ,-- thinking .
But at last she stood quite still , and spoke boldly and proudly .
She said , " Men of earth , I will help you , come what may !"
The thought made her suddenly marvellously big and strong and powerful .
Never had she dreamed that she could be so big .
Like a mighty angel of blessing she stood above the earth , and lifted her head and spread her wings far over the fields and woods .
She was so great , so majestic , that men and animals were awe - struck at the sight ; the trees and the grasses bowed before her ; yet all the earth - creatures felt that she meant them well .
" Yes , I will help you ," cried the Cloud once more .
" Take me to yourselves ; I will give my life for you !"
As she said the words a wonderful light glowed from her heart , the sound of thunder rolled through the sky , and a love greater than words can tell filled the Cloud ; down , down , close to the earth she swept , and gave up her life in a blessed , healing shower of rain .
That rain was the Cloud ' s great deed ; it was her death , too ; but it was also her glory .
Over the whole country - side , as far as the rain fell , a lovely rainbow sprang its arch , and all the brightest rays of heaven made its colours ; it was the last greeting of a love so great that it sacrificed itself .
Soon that , too , was gone , but long , long afterward the men and animals who were saved by the Cloud kept her blessing in their hearts .
THE LITTLE RED HEN
The little Red Hen was in the farmyard with her chickens , when she found a grain of wheat .
" Who will plant this wheat ?"
she said .
" Not I ," said the Goose .
" Not I ," said the Duck .
" I will , then ," said the little Red Hen , and she planted the grain of wheat .
When the wheat was ripe she said , " Who will take this wheat to the mill ?"
" Not I ," said the Goose .
" Not I ," said the Duck .
" I will , then ," said the little Red Hen , and she took the wheat to the mill .
When she brought the flour home she said , " Who will make some bread with this flour ?"
" Not I ," said the Goose .
" Not I ," said the Duck .
" I will , then ," said the little Red Hen .
When the bread was baked , she said , " Who will eat this bread ?"
" I will ," said the Goose .
" I will ," said the Duck .
" No , you won ' t ," said the little Red Hen .
" I shall eat it myself .
Cluck !
cluck !"
And she called her chickens to help her .
THE GINGERBREAD MAN
Once upon a time there was a little old woman and a little old man , and they lived all alone in a little old house .
They hadn ' t any little girls or any little boys , at all .
So one day , the little old woman made a boy out of gingerbread ; she made him a chocolate jacket , and put raisins on it for buttons ; his eyes were made of fine , fat currants ; his mouth was made of rose - coloured sugar ; and he had a gay little cap of orange sugar - candy .
When the little old woman had rolled him out , and dressed him up , and pinched his gingerbread shoes into shape , she put him in a pan ; then she put the pan in the oven and shut the door ; and she thought , " Now I shall have a little boy of my own ."
When it was time for the Gingerbread Boy to be done she opened the oven door and pulled out the pan .
Out jumped the little Gingerbread Boy on to the floor , and away he ran , out of the door and down the street !
The little old woman and the little old man ran after him as fast as they could , but he just laughed , and shouted ,--
" Run !
run !
as fast as you can !
" You can ' t catch me , I ' m the Gingerbread Man !"
And they couldn ' t catch him .
The little Gingerbread Boy ran on and on , until he came to a cow , by the roadside .
" Stop , little Gingerbread Boy ," said the cow ; " I want to eat you ."
The little Gingerbread Boy laughed and said ,--
" I have run away from a little old woman ,
" And a little old man ,
" And I can run away from you , I can !"
And , as the cow chased him , he looked over his shoulder and cried ,--
" Run !
run !
as fast as you can !
" You can ' t catch me , I ' m the Gingerbread Man !"
And the cow couldn ' t catch him .
The little Gingerbread Boy ran on , and on , and on , till he came to a horse , in the pasture .
" Please stop , little Gingerbread Boy ," said the horse , " you look very good to eat ."
But the little Gingerbread Boy laughed out loud .
" Oho !
oho !"
he said ,--
" I have run away from a little old woman ,
" A little old man ,
" A cow ,
" And I can run away from you , I can !"
And , as the horse chased him , he looked over his shoulder and cried ,--
" Run !
run !
as fast as you can !
" You can ' t catch me , I ' m the Gingerbread Man !"
And the horse couldn ' t catch him .
By and by the little Gingerbread Boy came to a barn full of threshers .
When the threshers smelt the Gingerbread Boy , they tried to pick him up , and said , " Don ' t run so fast , little Gingerbread Boy ; you look very good to eat ."
But the little Gingerbread Boy ran harder than ever , and as he ran he cried out ,--
" I have run away from a little old woman ,
" A little old man ,
" A cow ,
" A horse ,
" And I can run away from you , I can !"
And when he found that he was ahead of the threshers , he turned and shouted back to them ,--
" Run !
run !
as fast as you can !
" You can ' t catch me , I ' m the Gingerbread Man !"
And the threshers couldn ' t catch him .
Then the little Gingerbread Boy ran faster than ever .
He ran and ran until he came to a field full of mowers .
When the mowers saw how fine he looked , they ran after him , calling out , " Wait a bit !
wait a bit , little Gingerbread Boy , we wish to eat you !"
But the little Gingerbread Boy laughed harder than ever , and ran like the wind .
" Oho !
oho !"
he said ,--
" I have run away from a little old woman ,
" A little old man ,
" A cow ,
" A horse ,
" A barn full of threshers ,
" And I can run away from you , I can !"
And when he found that he was ahead of the mowers , he turned and shouted back to them ,--
" Run !
run !
as fast as you can !
" You can ' t catch me , I ' m the Gingerbread Man !"
And the mowers couldn ' t catch him .
By this time the little Gingerbread Boy was so proud that he didn ' t think anybody could catch him .
Pretty soon he saw a fox coming across a field .
The fox looked at him and began to run .
But the little Gingerbread Boy shouted across to him , " You can ' t catch me !"
The fox began to run faster , and the little Gingerbread Boy ran faster , and as he ran he chuckled ,--
" I have run away from a little old woman ,
" A little old man ,
" A cow ,
" A horse ,
" A barn full of threshers ,
" A field full of mowers ,
" And I can run away from you , I can !
" Run !
run !
as fast as you can !
" You can ' t catch me , I ' m the Gingerbread Man !"
" Why ," said the fox , " I would not catch you if I could .
I would not think of disturbing you ."
Just then , the little Gingerbread Boy came to a river .
He could not swim across , and he wanted to keep running away from the cow and the horse and the people .
" Jump on my tail , and I will take you across ," said the fox .
So the little Gingerbread Boy jumped on the fox ' s tail , and the fox began to swim the river .
When he was a little way from the bank he turned his head , and said , " You are too heavy on my tail , little Gingerbread Boy , I fear I shall let you get wet ; jump on my back ."
The little Gingerbread Boy jumped on his back .
A little farther out , the fox said , " I am afraid the water will cover you , there ; jump on my shoulder ."
The little Gingerbread Boy jumped on his shoulder .
In the middle of the stream the fox said , " Oh , dear !
little Gingerbread Boy , my shoulder is sinking ; jump on my nose , and I can hold you out of water ."
So the little Gingerbread Boy jumped on his nose .
The minute the fox reached the bank he threw back his head , and gave a snap !
" Dear me !"
said the little Gingerbread Boy , " I am a quarter gone !"
The next minute he said , " Why , I am half gone !"
The next minute he said , " My goodness gracious , I am three quarters gone !"
And after that , the little Gingerbread Boy never said anything more at all .
THE LITTLE JACKALS AND THE LION
Once there was a great big jungle ; and in the jungle there was a great big Lion ; and the Lion was king of the jungle .
Whenever he wanted anything to eat , all he had to do was to come up out of his cave in the stones and earth and _roar_ .
When he had roared a few times all the little people of the jungle were so frightened that they came out of their holes and hiding - places and ran , this way and that , to get away .
Then , of course , the Lion could see where they were .
And he pounced on them , killed them , and gobbled them up .
He did this so often that at last there was not a single thing left alive in the jungle besides the Lion , except two little Jackals ,-- a little father Jackal and a little mother Jackal .
They had run away so many times that they were quite thin and very tired , and they could not run so fast any more .
And one day the Lion was so near that the little mother Jackal grew frightened ; she said ,--
" Oh , Father Jackal , Father Jackal !
I b ' lieve our time has come !
the Lion will surely catch us this time !"
" Pooh !
nonsense , mother !"
said the little father Jackal .
" Come , we ' ll run on a bit !"
And they ran , ran , ran very fast , and the Lion did not catch them that time .
But at last a day came when the Lion was nearer still and the little mother Jackal was frightened almost to death .
" Oh , Father Jackal , Father Jackal !"
she cried ; " I ' m sure our time has come !
The Lion ' s going to eat us this time !"
" Now , mother , don ' t you fret ," said the little father Jackal ; " you do just as I tell you , and it will be all right ."
Then what did those cunning little Jackals do but take hold of hands and run up towards the Lion , as if they had meant to come all the time .
When he saw them coming he stood up , and roared in a terrible voice ,--
" You miserable little wretches , come here and be eaten , at once !
Why didn ' t you come before ?"
The father Jackal bowed very low .
" Indeed , Father Lion ," he said , " we meant to come before ; we knew we ought to come before ; and we wanted to come before ; but every time we started to come , a dreadful great lion came out of the woods and roared at us , and frightened us so that we ran away ."
" What do you mean ?"
roared the Lion .
" There ' s no other lion in this jungle , and you know it !"
" Indeed , indeed , Father Lion ," said the little Jackal , " I know that is what everybody thinks ; but indeed and indeed there is another lion !
And he is as much bigger than you as you are bigger than I !
His face is much more terrible , and his roar far , far more dreadful .
Oh , he is far more fearful than you !"
At that the Lion stood up and roared so that the jungle shook .
" Take me to this Lion ," he said ; " I ' ll eat him up and then I ' ll eat you up ."
The little Jackals danced on ahead , and the Lion stalked behind .
They led him to a place where there was a round , deep well of clear water .
They went round on one side of it , and the Lion stalked up to the other .
" He lives down there , Father Lion !"
said the little Jackal .
" He lives down there !"
The Lion came close and looked down into the water ,-- and a lion ' s face looked back at him out of the water !
When he saw that , the Lion roared and shook his mane and showed his teeth .
And the lion in the water shook his mane and showed his teeth .
The Lion above shook his mane again and growled again , and made a terrible face .
But the lion in the water made just as terrible a one , back .
The Lion above couldn ' t stand that .
He leaped down into the well after the other lion .
But , of course , as you know very well , there wasn ' t any other lion !
It was only the reflection in the water !
So the poor old Lion floundered about and floundered about , and as he couldn ' t get up the steep sides of the well , he was at last drowned .
And when he was drowned , the little Jackals took hold of hands and danced round the well , and sang ,--
" The Lion is dead !
The Lion is dead !
" We have killed the great Lion who would have killed us !
" The Lion is dead !
The Lion is dead !
" Ao !
Ao !
Ao !"
THE COUNTRY MOUSE AND THE CITY MOUSE
Once a little mouse who lived in the country invited a little mouse from the city to visit him .
When the little City Mouse sat down to dinner he was surprised to find that the Country Mouse had nothing to eat except barley and grain .
" Really ," he said , " you do not live well at all ; you should see how I live !
I have all sorts of fine things to eat every day .
You must come to visit me and see how nice it is to live in the city ."
The little Country Mouse was glad to do this , and after a while he went to the city to visit his friend .
The very first place that the City Mouse took the Country Mouse to see was the kitchen cupboard of the house where he lived .
There , on the lowest shelf , behind some stone jars , stood a big paper bag of brown sugar .
The little City Mouse gnawed a hole in the bag and invited his friend to nibble for himself .
The two little mice nibbled and nibbled , and the Country Mouse thought he had never tasted anything so delicious in his life .
He was just thinking how lucky the City Mouse was , when suddenly the door opened with a bang , and in came the cook to get some flour .
" Run !"
whispered the City Mouse .
And they ran as fast as they could to the little hole where they had come in .
The little Country Mouse was shaking all over when they got safely away , but the little City Mouse said , " That is nothing ; she will soon go away and then we can go back ."
After the cook had gone away and shut the door they stole softly back , and this time the City Mouse had something new to show : he took the little Country Mouse into a corner on the top shelf , where a big jar of dried prunes stood open .
After much tugging and pulling they got a large dried prune out of the jar on to the shelf and began to nibble at it .
This was even better than the brown sugar .
The little Country Mouse liked the taste so much that he could hardly nibble fast enough .
But all at once , in the midst of their eating , there came a scratching at the door and a sharp , loud _miaouw_ !
" What is that ?"
said the Country Mouse .
The City Mouse just whispered , " Sh !"
and ran as fast as he could to the hole .
The Country Mouse ran after , you may be sure , as fast as _he_ could .
As soon as they were out of danger the City Mouse said , " That was the old Cat ; she is the best mouser in town ,-- if she once gets you , you are lost ."
" This is very terrible ," said the little Country Mouse ; " let us not go back to the cupboard again ."
" No ," said the City Mouse , " I will take you to the cellar ; there is something specially fine there ."
So the City Mouse took his little friend down the cellar stairs and into a big cupboard where there were many shelves .
On the shelves were jars of butter , and cheeses in bags and out of bags .
Overhead hung bunches of sausages , and there were spicy apples in barrels standing about .
It smelt so good that it went to the little Country Mouse ' s head .
He ran along the shelf and nibbled at a cheese here , and a bit of butter there , until he saw an especially rich , very delicious - smelling piece of cheese on a queer little stand in a corner .
He was just on the point of putting his teeth into the cheese when the City Mouse saw him .
" Stop !
stop !"
cried the City Mouse .
" That is a trap !"
The little Country Mouse stopped and said , " What is a trap ?"
" That thing is a trap ," said the little City Mouse .
" The minute you touch the cheese with your teeth something comes down on your head hard , and you ' re dead ."
The little Country Mouse looked at the trap , and he looked at the cheese , and he looked at the little City Mouse .
" If you ' ll excuse me ," he said , " I think I will go home .
I ' d rather have barley and grain to eat and eat it in peace and comfort , than have brown sugar and dried prunes and cheese ,-- and be frightened to death all the time !"
So the little Country Mouse went back to his home , and there he stayed all the rest of his life .
LITTLE JACK ROLLAROUND
Once upon a time there was a wee little boy who slept in a tiny trundle - bed near his mother ' s great bed .
The trundle - bed had castors on it so that it could be rolled about , and there was nothing in the world the little boy liked so much as to have it rolled .
When his mother came to bed he would cry , " Roll me around !
roll me around !"
And his mother would put out her hand from the big bed and push the little bed back and forth till she was tired .
The little boy could never get enough ; so for this he was called " Little Jack Rollaround ."
One night he had made his mother roll him about , till she fell asleep , and even then he kept crying , " Roll me around !
roll me around !"
His mother pushed him about in her sleep , until her slumber became too sound ; then she stopped .
But Little Jack Rollaround kept on crying , " Roll around !
roll around !"
By and by the Moon peeped in at the window .
He saw a funny sight : Little Jack Rollaround was lying in his trundle - bed , and he had put up one little fat leg for a mast , and fastened the corner of his wee shirt to it for a sail ; and he was blowing at it with all his might , and saying , " Roll around !
roll around !"
Slowly , slowly , the little trundle - bed boat began to move ; it sailed along the floor and up the wall and across the ceiling and down again !
" More !
more !"
cried Little Jack Rollaround ; and the little boat sailed faster up the wall , across the ceiling , down the wall , and over the floor .
The Moon laughed at the sight ; but when Little Jack Rollaround saw the Moon , he called out , " Open the door , old Moon !
I want to roll through the town , so that the people can see me !"
The Moon could not open the door , but he shone in through the keyhole , in a broad band .
And Little Jack Rollaround sailed his trundle - bed boat up the beam , through the keyhole , and into the street .
" Make a light , old Moon ," he said ; " I want the people to see me !"
So the good Moon made a light and went along with him , and the little trundle - bed boat went sailing down the streets into the main street of the village .
They rolled past the town hall and the schoolhouse and the church ; but nobody saw little Jack Rollaround , because everybody was in bed , asleep .
" Why don ' t the people come to see me ?"
he shouted .
High up on the church steeple , the Weather - vane answered , " It is no time for people to be in the streets ; decent folk are in their beds ."
" Then I ' ll go to the woods , so that the animals may see me ," said Little Jack .
" Come along , old Moon , and make a light !"
The good Moon went along and made a light , and they came to the forest .
" Roll !
roll !"
cried the little boy ; and the trundle - bed went trundling among the trees in the great wood , scaring up the squirrels and startling the little leaves on the trees .
The poor old Moon began to have a bad time of it , for the tree - trunks got in his way so that he could not go so fast as the bed , and every time he got behind , the little boy called , " Hurry up , old Moon , I want the beasts to see me !"
But all the animals were asleep , and nobody at all looked at Little Jack Rollaround except an old White Owl ; and all she said was , " Who are you ?"
The little boy did not like her , so he blew harder , and the trundle - bed boat went sailing through the forest till it came to the end of the world .
" I must go home now ; it is late ," said the Moon .
" I will go with you ; make a path !"
said Little Jack Rollaround .
The kind Moon made a path up to the sky , and up sailed the little bed into the midst of the sky .
All the little bright Stars were there with their nice little lamps .
And when he saw them , that naughty Little Jack Rollaround began to tease .
" Out of the way , there !
I am coming !"
he shouted , and sailed the trundle - bed boat straight at them .
He bumped the little Stars right and left , all over the sky , until every one of them put his little lamp out and left it dark .
" Do not treat the little Stars so ," said the good Moon .
But Jack Rollaround only behaved the worse : " Get out of the way , old Moon !"
he shouted , " I am coming !"
And he steered the little trundle - bed boat straight into the old Moon ' s face , and bumped his nose !
This was too much for the good Moon ; he put out his big light , all at once , and left the sky pitch - black .
" Make a light , old Moon !
Make a light !"
shouted the little boy .
But the Moon answered never a word , and Jack Rollaround could not see where to steer .
He went rolling criss - cross , up and down , all over the sky , knocking into the planets and stumbling into the clouds , till he did not know where he was .
Suddenly he saw a big yellow light at the very edge of the sky .
He thought it was the Moon .
" Look out , I am coming !"
he cried , and steered for the light .
But it was not the kind old Moon at all ; it was the great mother Sun , just coming up out of her home in the sea , to begin her day ' s work .
" Aha , youngster , what are you doing in my sky ?"
she said .
And she picked Little Jack Rollaround up and threw him , trundle - bed boat and all , into the middle of the sea !
And I suppose he is there yet , unless somebody picked him out again .
HOW BROTHER RABBIT FOOLED THE WHALE AND THE ELEPHANT
One day little Brother Rabbit was running along on the sand , lippety , lippety , when he saw the Whale and the Elephant talking together .
Little Brother Rabbit crouched down and listened to what they were saying .
This was what they were saying :--
" You are the biggest thing on the land , Brother Elephant ," said the Whale , " and I am the biggest thing in the sea ; if we join together we can rule all the animals in the world , and have our way about everything ."
" Very good , very good ," trumpeted the Elephant ; " that suits me ; we will do it ."
Little Brother Rabbit sniggered to himself .
" They won ' t rule me ," he said .
He ran away and got a very long , very strong rope , and he got his big drum , and hid the drum a long way off in the bushes .
Then he went along the beach till he came to the Whale .
" Oh , please , dear , strong Mr Whale ," he said , " will you have the great kindness to do me a favour ?
My cow is stuck in the mud , a quarter of a mile from here .
And I can ' t pull her out .
But you are so strong and so obliging , that I venture to trust you will help me out ."
The Whale was so pleased with the compliment that he said , " Yes ," at once .
" Then ," said the Rabbit , " I will tie this end of my long rope to you , and I will run away and tie the other end round my cow , and when I am ready I will beat my big drum .
When you hear that , pull very , very hard , for the cow is stuck very deep in the mud ."
" Huh !"
grunted the Whale , " I ' ll pull her out , if she is stuck to the horns ."
Little Brother Rabbit tied the rope - end to the Whale , and ran off , lippety , lippety , till he came to the place where the Elephant was .
" Oh , please , mighty and kindly Elephant ," he said , making a very low bow , " will you do me a favour ?"
" What is it ?"
asked the Elephant .
" My cow is stuck in the mud , about a quarter of a mile from here ," said little Brother Rabbit , " and I cannot pull her out .
Of course you could .
If you will be so very obliging as to help me ----"
" Certainly ," said the Elephant grandly , " certainly ."
" Then ," said little Brother Rabbit , " I will tie one end of this long rope to your trunk , and the other to my cow , and as soon as I have tied her tightly I will beat my big drum .
When you hear that , pull ; pull as hard as you can , for my cow is very heavy ."
" Never fear ," said the Elephant , " I could pull twenty cows ."
" I am sure you could ," said the Rabbit , politely , " only be sure to begin gently , and pull harder and harder till you get her ."
Then he tied the end of the rope tightly round the Elephant ' s trunk , and ran away into the bushes .
There he sat down and beat the big drum .
The Whale began to pull , and the Elephant began to pull , and in a jiffy the rope tightened till it was stretched as hard as could be .
" This is a remarkably heavy cow ," said the Elephant ; " but I ' ll fetch her !"
And he braced his forefeet in the earth , and gave a tremendous pull .
" Dear me !"
said the Whale .
" That cow must be stuck mighty tight "; and he drove his tail deep in the water , and gave a marvellous pull .
He pulled harder ; the Elephant pulled harder .
Pretty soon the Whale found himself sliding toward the land .
The reason was , of course , that the Elephant had something solid to brace against , and , beside , as fast as he pulled the rope in a little , he took a turn with it round his trunk !
But when the Whale found himself sliding toward the land he was so provoked with the cow that he dived head first , down to the bottom of the sea .
That was a pull !
The Elephant was jerked off his feet , and came slipping and sliding to the beach , and into the surf .
He was terribly angry .
He braced himself with all his might , and pulled his best .
At the jerk , up came the Whale out of the water .
" Who is pulling me ?"
spouted the Whale .
" Who is pulling me ?"
trumpeted the Elephant .
And then each saw the rope in the other ' s hold .
" I ' ll teach you to play cow !"
roared the Elephant .
" I ' ll show you how to fool me !"
fumed the Whale .
And they began to pull again .
But this time the rope broke , the Whale turned a somersault , and the Elephant fell over backward .
At that , they were both so ashamed that neither would speak to the other .
So that broke up the bargain between them .
And little Brother Rabbit sat in the bushes and laughed , and laughed , and laughed .
THE LITTLE HALF - CHICK
There was once upon a time a Spanish Hen , who hatched out some nice little chickens .
She was much pleased with their looks as they came from the shell .
One , two , three , came out plump and fluffy ; but when the fourth shell broke , out came a little half - chick !
It had only one leg and one wing and one eye !
It was just half a chicken .
The Hen - mother did not know what in the world to do with the queer little Half - Chick .
She was afraid something would happen to it , and she tried hard to protect it and keep it from harm .
But as soon as it could walk the little Half - Chick showed a most headstrong spirit , worse than any of its brothers .
It would not mind , and it would go wherever it wanted to ; it walked with a funny little hoppity - kick , hoppity - kick , and got along pretty fast .
One day the little Half - Chick said , " Mother , I am off to Madrid , to see the King !
Good - bye ."
The poor Hen - mother did everything she could think of to keep him from doing so foolish a thing , but the little Half - Chick laughed at her naughtily .
" I ' m for seeing the King ," he said ; " this life is too quiet for me ."
And away he went , hoppity - kick , hoppity - kick , over the fields .
When he had gone some distance the little Half - Chick came to a little brook that was caught in the weeds and in much trouble .
" Little Half - Chick ," whispered the Water , " I am so choked with these weeds that I cannot move ; I am almost lost , for want of room ; please push the sticks and weeds away with your bill and help me ."
" The idea !"
said the little Half - Chick .
" I cannot be bothered with you ; I am off to Madrid , to see the King !"
And in spite of the brook ' s begging , he went away , hoppity - kick , hoppity - kick .
A bit farther on , the Half - Chick came to a Fire , which was smothered in damp sticks and in great distress .
" Oh , little Half - Chick ," said the Fire , " you are just in time to save me .
I am almost dead for want of air .
Fan me a little with your wing , I beg ."
" The idea !"
said the little Half - Chick .
" I cannot be bothered with you ; I am off to Madrid , to see the King !"
And he went laughing off , hoppity - kick , hoppity - kick .
When he had hoppity - kicked a good way , and was near Madrid , he came to a clump of bushes , where the Wind was caught fast .
The Wind was whimpering , and begging to be set free .
" Little Half - Chick ," said the Wind , " you are just in time to help me ; if you will brush aside these twigs and leaves , I can get my breath ; help me , quickly !"
" Ho !
the idea !"
said the little Half - Chick " I have no time to bother with you .
I am going to Madrid , to see the King ."
And he went off , hoppity - kick , hoppity - kick , leaving the Wind to smother .
After a while he came to Madrid and to the palace of the King .
Hoppity - kick , hoppity - kick , the little Half - Chick skipped past the sentry at the gate , and hoppity - kick , hoppity - kick , he crossed the court .
But as he was passing the windows of the kitchen the Cook looked out and saw him .
" The very thing for the King ' s dinner !"
she said .
" I was needing a chicken !"
And she seized the little Half - Chick by his one wing and threw him into a kettle of water on the fire .
The Water came over the little Half - Chick ' s feathers , over his head , into his eyes .
It was terribly uncomfortable .
The little Half - Chick cried out ,--
" Water , don ' t drown me !
Stay down , don ' t come so high !"
" But ," the Water said , " Little Half - Chick , little Half - Chick , when I was in trouble you would not help me ," and came higher than ever .
Now the Water grew warm , hot , hotter , frightfully hot ; the little Half - Chick cried out , " Do not burn so hot , Fire !
You are burning me to death !
Stop !"
But the Fire said , " Little Half - Chick , little Half - Chick , when I was in trouble you would not help me ," and burned hotter than ever .
Just as the little Half - Chick thought he must suffocate , the Cook took the cover off , to look at the dinner .
" Dear me ," she said , " this chicken is no good ; it is burned to a cinder ."
And she picked the little Half - Chick up by one leg and threw him out of the window .
In the air he was caught by a breeze and taken up higher than the trees .
Round and round he was twirled till he was so dizzy he thought he must perish .
" Don ' t blow me so , Wind ," he cried , " let me down !"
" Little Half - Chick , little Half - Chick ," said the Wind , " when I was in trouble you would not help me !"
And the Wind blew him straight up to the top of the church steeple , and stuck him there , fast !
There he stands to this day , with his one eye , his one wing , and his one leg .
He cannot hoppity - kick any more , but he turns slowly round when the wind blows , and keeps his head toward it , to hear what it says .
THE BLACKBERRY - BUSH
A little boy sat at his mother ' s knees , by the long western window , looking out into the garden .
It was autumn , and the wind was sad ; and the golden elm leaves lay scattered about among the grass , and on the gravel path .
The mother was knitting a little stocking ; her fingers moved the bright needles ; but her eyes were fixed on the clear evening sky .
As the darkness gathered , the wee boy laid his head on her lap and kept so still that , at last , she leaned forward to look into his dear round face .
He was not asleep , but was watching very earnestly a blackberry - bush , that waved its one tall , dark - red spray in the wind outside the fence .
" What are you thinking about , my darling ?"
she said , smoothing his soft , honey - coloured hair .
" The blackberry - bush , mamma ; what does it say ?
It keeps nodding , nodding to me behind the fence ; what does it say , mamma ?"
" It says ," she answered , "' I see a happy little boy in the warm , fire - lighted room .
The wind blows cold , and here it is dark and lonely ; but that little boy is warm and happy and safe at his mother ' s knees .
I nod to him , and he looks at me .
I wonder if he knows how happy he is !
"' See , all my leaves are dark crimson .
Every day they dry and wither more and more ; by and by they will be so weak they can scarcely cling to my branches , and the north wind will tear them all away , and nobody will remember them any more .
Then the snow will sink down and wrap me close .
Then the snow will melt again and icy rain will clothe me , and the bitter wind will rattle my bare twigs up and down .
"' I nod my head to all who pass , and dreary nights and dreary days go by ; but in the happy house , so warm and bright , the little boy plays all day with books and toys .
His mother and his father cherish him ; he nestles on their knees in the red firelight at night , while they read to him lovely stories , or sing sweet old songs to him ,-- the happy little boy !
And outside I peep over the snow and see a stream of ruddy light from a crack in the window - shutter , and I nod out here alone in the dark , thinking how beautiful it is .
"' And here I wait patiently .
I take the snow and the rain and the cold , and I am not sorry , but glad ; for in my roots I feel warmth and life , and I know that a store of greenness and beauty is shut up safe in my small brown buds .
Day and night go again and again ; little by little the snow melts all away ; the ground grows soft ; the sky is blue ; the little birds fly over , crying , " It is spring !
it is spring !"
Ah !
then through all my twigs I feel the slow sap stirring .
"' Warmer grow the sunbeams , and softer the air .
The small blades of grass creep thick about my feet ; the sweet rain helps to swell my shining buds .
More and more I push forth my leaves , till out I burst in a gay green dress , and nod in joy and pride .
The little boy comes running to look at me , and cries , " Oh , mamma !
the little blackberry - bush is alive and beautiful and green .
Oh , come and see !"
And I hear ; and I bow my head in the summer wind ; and every day they watch me grow more beautiful , till at last I shake out blossoms , fair and fragrant .
"' A few days more , and I drop the white petals down among the grass , and , lo !
there are the green tiny berries !
Carefully I hold them up to the sun ; carefully I gather the dew in the summer nights ; slowly they ripen ; they grow larger and redder and darker , and at last they are black , shining , delicious .
I hold them as high as I can for the little boy , who comes dancing out .
He shouts with joy , and gathers them in his dear hand ; and he runs to share them with his mother , saying , " Here is what the patient blackberry - bush bore for us : see how nice , mamma !"
"' Ah !
then indeed I am glad , and would say , if I could , " Yes , take them , dear little boy ; I kept them for you , held them long up to the sun and rain to make them sweet and ripe for you "; and I nod and nod in full content , for my work is done .
From the window he watches me and thinks , " There is the little blackberry - bush that was so kind to me .
I see it and I love it .
I know it is safe out there nodding all alone , and next summer it will hold ripe berries up for me to gather again ."'"
* * * * *
Then the wee boy smiled , and said he liked the little story .
His mother took him up in her arms , and they went out to supper and left the blackberry - bush nodding up and down in the wind ; and there it is nodding yet .
THE FAIRIES
Up the airy mountain , Down the rushy glen , We daren ' t go a - hunting For fear of little men .
Wee folk , good folk , Trooping all together ; Green jacket , red cap , And white owl ' s feather !
Down along the rocky shore Some make their home -- They live on crispy pancakes Of yellow tide - foam ; Some in the reeds Of the black mountain - lake , With frogs for their watch - dogs , All night awake .
High on the hilltop The old King sits ; He is now so old and gray , He ' s nigh lost his wits .
With a bridge of white mist Columbkill he crosses , On his stately journeys From Slieveleague to Rosses ; Or going up with music On cold starry nights , To sup with the Queen Of the gay Northern Lights .
They stole little Bridget For seven years long ; When she came down again Her friends were all gone .
They took her lightly back , Between the night and morrow ; They thought that she was fast asleep , But she was dead with sorrow .
They have kept her ever since Deep within the lake , On a bed of flag - leaves , Watching till she wake .
By the craggy hillside , Through the mosses bare , They have planted thorn - trees , For pleasure here and there .
Is any man so daring As dig them up in spite , He shall find their sharpest thorns In his bed at night .
Up the airy mountain , Down the rushy glen , We daren ' t go a - hunting For fear of little men .
Wee folk , good folk , Trooping all together ; Green jacket , red cap , And white owl ' s feather !
THE ADVENTURES OF THE LITTLE FIELD MOUSE
Once upon a time , there was a little brown Field Mouse ; and one day he was out in the fields to see what he could find .
He was running along in the grass , poking his nose into everything and looking with his two eyes all about , when he saw a smooth , shiny acorn , lying in the grass .
It was such a fine shiny little acorn that he thought he would take it home with him ; so he put out his paw to touch it , but the little acorn rolled away from him .
He ran after it , but it kept rolling on , just ahead of him , till it came to a place where a big oak - tree had its roots spread all over the ground .
Then it rolled under a big round root .
Little Mr Field Mouse ran to the root and poked his nose under after the acorn , and there he saw a small round hole in the ground .
He slipped through and saw some stairs going down into the earth .
The acorn was rolling down , with a soft tapping sound , ahead of him , so down he went too .
Down , down , down , rolled the acorn , and down , down , down , went the Field Mouse , until suddenly he saw a tiny door at the foot of the stairs .
The shiny acorn rolled to the door and struck against it with a tap .
Quickly the little door opened and the acorn rolled inside .
The Field Mouse hurried as fast as he could down the last stairs , and pushed through just as the door was closing .
It shut behind him , and he was in a little room .
And there , before him , stood a queer little Red Man !
He had a little red cap , and a little red jacket , and odd little red shoes with points at the toes .
" You are my prisoner ," he said to the Field Mouse .
" What for ?"
said the Field Mouse .
" Because you tried to steal my acorn ," said the little Red Man .
" It is my acorn ," said the Field Mouse ; " I found it ."
" No , it isn ' t ," said the little Red Man , " I have it ; you will never see it again ."
The little Field Mouse looked all about the room as fast as he could , but he could not see any acorn .
Then he thought he would go back up the tiny stairs to his own home .
But the little door was locked , and the little Red Man had the key .
And he said to the poor mouse ,--
" You shall be my servant ; you shall make my bed and sweep my room and cook my broth ."
So the little brown Mouse was the little Red Man ' s servant , and every day he made the little Red Man ' s bed and swept the little Red Man ' s room and cooked the little Red Man ' s broth .
And every day the little Red Man went away through the tiny door , and did not come back till afternoon .
But he always locked the door after him , and carried away the key .
At last , one day he was in such a hurry that he turned the key before the door was quite latched , which , of course , didn ' t lock it at all .
He went away without noticing ,-- he was in such a hurry .
The little Field Mouse knew that his chance had come to run away home .
But he didn ' t want to go without the pretty , shiny acorn .
Where it was he didn ' t know , so he looked everywhere .
He opened every little drawer and looked in , but it wasn ' t in any of the drawers ; he peeped on every shelf , but it wasn ' t on a shelf ; he hunted in every closet , but it wasn ' t in there .
Finally , he climbed up on a chair and opened a wee , wee door in the chimney - piece ,-- and there it was !
He took it quickly in his forepaws , and then he took it in his mouth , and then he ran away .
He pushed open the little door ; he climbed up , up , up the little stairs ; he came out through the hole under the root ; he ran and ran through the fields ; and at last he came to his own house .
When he was in his own house he set the shiny acorn on the table .
I expect he set it down hard , for all at once , with a little snap , it opened !-- exactly like a little box .
And what do you think !
There was a tiny necklace inside !
It was a most beautiful tiny necklace , all made of jewels , and it was just big enough for a lady mouse .
So the little Field Mouse gave the tiny necklace to his little Mouse - sister .
She thought it was perfectly lovely .
And when she wasn ' t wearing it she kept it in the shiny acorn box .
And the little Red Man never knew what had become of it , because he didn ' t know where the little Field Mouse lived .
ANOTHER LITTLE RED HEN
Once upon a time there was a little Red Hen , who lived on a farm all by herself .
An old Fox , crafty and sly , had a den in the rocks , on a hill near her house .
Many and many a night this old Fox used to lie awake and think to himself how good that little Red Hen would taste if he could once get her in his big kettle and boil her for dinner .
But he couldn ' t catch the little Red Hen , because she was too wise for him .
Every time she went out to market she locked the door of the house behind her , and as soon as she came in again she locked the door behind her and put the key in her apron pocket , where she kept her scissors and some sugar candy .
At last the old Fox thought out a way to catch the little Red Hen .
Early in the morning he said to his old mother , " Have the kettle boiling when I come home to - night , for I ' ll be bringing the little Red Hen for supper ."
Then he took a big bag and slung it over his shoulder , and walked till he came to the little Red Hen ' s house .
The little Red Hen was just coming out of her door to pick up a few sticks for firewood .
So the old Fox hid behind the wood - pile , and as soon as she bent down to get a stick , into the house he slipped , and scurried behind the door .
In a minute the little Red Hen came quickly in , and shut the door and locked it .
" I ' m glad I ' m safely in ," she said .
Just as she said it , she turned round , and there stood the ugly old Fox , with his big bag over his shoulder .
Whiff !
how scared the little Red Hen was !
She dropped her apronful of sticks , and flew up to the big beam across the ceiling .
There she perched , and she said to the old Fox , down below , " You may as well go home , for you can ' t get me ."
" Can ' t I , though !"
said the Fox .
And what do you think he did ?
He stood on the floor underneath the little Red Hen and twirled round in a circle after his own tail .
And as he spun , and spun , and spun , faster , and faster , and faster , the poor little Red Hen got so dizzy watching him that she couldn ' t hold on to the perch .
She dropped off , and the old Fox picked her up and put her in his bag , slung the bag over his shoulder , and started for home , where the kettle was boiling .
He had a very long way to go , up hill , and the little Red Hen was still so dizzy that she didn ' t know where she was .
But when the dizziness began to go off , she whisked her little scissors out of her apron pocket , and snip !
she cut a little hole in the bag ; then she poked her head out and saw where she was , and as soon as they came to a good spot she cut the hole bigger and jumped out herself .
There was a great big stone lying there , and the little Red Hen picked it up and put it in the bag as quick as a wink .
Then she ran as fast as she could till she came to her own little farmhouse , and she went in and locked the door with the big key .
The old Fox went on carrying the stone and never knew the difference .
My , but it bumped him well !
He was pretty tired when he got home .
But he was so pleased to think of the supper he was going to have that he did not mind that at all .
As soon as his mother opened the door he said , " Is the kettle boiling ?"
" Yes ," said his mother ; " have you got the little Red Hen ?"
" I have ," said the old Fox .
" When I open the bag you hold the cover off the kettle and I ' ll shake the bag so that the Hen will fall in , and then you pop the cover on , before she can jump out ."
" All right ," said his mean old mother ; and she stood close by the boiling kettle , ready to put the cover on .
The Fox lifted the big , heavy bag up till it was over the open kettle , and gave it a shake .
Splash !
thump !
splash !
In went the stone and out came the boiling water , all over the old Fox and the old Fox ' s mother !
And they were scalded to death .
But the little Red Hen lived happily ever after , in her own little farmhouse .
THE STORY OF THE LITTLE RID HIN
There was once ' t upon a time A little small Rid Hin , Off in the good ould country Where yees ha ' nivir bin .
Nice and quiet shure she was , And nivir did any harrum ; She lived alane all be herself , And worked upon her farrum .
There lived out o ' er the hill , In a great din o ' rocks , A crafty , shly , and wicked Ould folly iv a Fox .
This rashkill iv a Fox , He tuk it in his head He ' d have the little Rid Hin : So , whin he wint to bed ,
He laid awake and thaught What a foine thing ' twad be To fetch her home and bile her up For his ould marm and he .
And so he thaught and thaught , Until he grew so thin That there was nothin ' left of him But jist his bones and shkin .
But the small Rid Hin was wise , She always locked her door , And in her pocket pit the key , To keep the Fox out shure .
But at last there came a schame Intil his wicked head , And he tuk a great big bag And to his mither said ,--
" Now have the pot all bilin ' Agin the time I come ; We ' ll ate the small Rid Hin to - night , For shure I ' ll bring her home ."
And so away he wint Wid the bag upon his back , An ' up the hill and through the woods Saftly he made his track .
An ' thin he came alang , Craping as shtill ' s a mouse , To where the little small Rid Hin Lived in her shnug ould house .
An ' out she comes hersel ', Jist as he got in sight , To pick up shticks to make her fire : " Aha !"
says Fox , " all right .
" Begorra , now , I ' ll have yees Widout much throuble more "; An ' in he shlips quite unbeknownst , An ' hides be ' ind the door .
An ' thin , a minute afther , In comes the small Rid Hin , An ' shuts the door , and locks it , too , An ' thinks , " I ' m safely in ."
An ' thin she tarns around An ' looks be ' ind the door ; There shtands the Fox wid his big tail Shpread out upon the floor .
Dear me !
she was so schared Wid such a wondrous sight , She dropped her apronful of shticks , An ' flew up in a fright ,
An ' lighted on the bame Across on top the room ; " Aha !"
says she , " ye don ' t have me ; Ye may as well go home ."
" Aha !"
says Fox , " we ' ll see ; I ' ll bring yees down from that ."
So out he marched upon the floor Right under where she sat .
An ' thin he whiruled around , An ' round an ' round an ' round , Fashter an ' fashter an ' fashter , Afther his tail on the ground .
Until the small Rid Hin She got so dizzy , shure , Wid lookin ' at the Fox ' s tail , She jist dropped on the floor .
An ' Fox he whipped her up , An ' pit her in his bag , An ' off he started all alone , Him and his little dag .
All day he tracked the wood Up hill an ' down again ; An ' wid him , shmotherin ' in the bag , The little small Rid Hin .
Sorra a know she knowed Awhere she was that day ; Says she , " I ' m biled an ' ate up , shure An ' what ' ll be to pay ?"
Thin she betho ' t hersel ', An ' tuk her schissors out , An ' shnipped a big hole in the bag , So she could look about .
An ' ' fore ould Fox could think She lept right out -- she did , An ' thin picked up a great big shtone , An ' popped it in instid .
An ' thin she rins off home , Her outside door she locks ; Thinks she , " You see you don ' t have me , You crafty , shly ould Fox ."
An ' Fox he tugged away Wid the great big hivy shtone , Thimpin ' his shoulders very bad As he wint in alone .
An ' whin he came in sight O ' his great din o ' rocks , Jist watchin ' for him at the door He shpied ould mither Fox .
" Have ye the pot a - bilin '?"
Says he to ould Fox thin ; " Shure an ' it is , me child ," says she ; " Have ye the small Rid Hin ?"
" Yes , jist here in me bag , As shure as I shtand here ; Open the lid till I pit her in : Open it -- nivir fear ."
So the rashkill cut the shtring , An ' hild the big bag over ; " Now when I shake it in ," says he , " Do ye pit on the cover ."
" Yis , that I will "; an ' thin The shtone wint in wid a dash , An ' the pot o ' bilin ' wather Came over them ker - splash .
An ' schalted ' em both to death , So they couldn ' t brathe no more ; An ' the little small Rid Hin lived safe , Jist where she lived before .
THE STORY OF EPAMINONDAS AND HIS AUNTIE
Epaminondas used to go to see his Auntie ' most every day , and she nearly always gave him something to take home to his Mammy .
One day she gave him a big piece of cake ; nice , yellow , rich gold - cake .
Epaminondas took it in his fist and held it all crunched up tight , like this , and came along home .
By the time he got home there wasn ' t anything left but a fistful of crumbs .
His Mammy said ,--
" What you got there , Epaminondas ?"
" Cake , Mammy ," said Epaminondas .
" Cake !"
said his Mammy .
" Epaminondas , you ain ' t got the sense you was born with !
That ' s no way to carry cake .
The way to carry cake is to wrap it all up nice in some leaves and put it in your hat , and put your hat on your head , and come along home .
You hear me , Epaminondas ?"
" Yes , Mammy ," said Epaminondas .
Next day Epaminondas went to see his Auntie , and she gave him a pound of butter for his Mammy ; fine , fresh , sweet butter .
Epaminondas wrapped it up in leaves and put it in his hat , and put his hat on his head , and came along home .
It was a very hot day .
Pretty soon the butter began to melt .
It melted , and melted , and as it melted it ran down Epaminondas ' forehead ; then it ran over his face , and in his ears , and down his neck .
When he got home , all the butter Epaminondas had was _on him_ .
His Mammy looked at him , and then she said ,--
" Law ' s sake !
Epaminondas , what you got in your hat ?"
" Butter , Mammy ," said Epaminondas ; " Auntie gave it to me ."
" Butter !"
said his Mammy .
" Epaminondas , you ain ' t got the sense you was born with !
Don ' t you know that ' s no way to carry butter ?
The way to carry butter is to wrap it up in some leaves and take it down to the brook , and cool it in the water , and cool it in the water , and cool it in the water , and then take it on your hands , careful , and bring it along home ."
" Yes , Mammy ," said Epaminondas .
By and by , another day , Epaminondas went to see his Auntie again , and ; this time she gave him a little new puppy - dog to take home .
Epaminondas put it in some leaves and took it down to the brook ; and there he cooled it in the water , and cooled it in the water , and cooled it in the water ; then he took it in his hands and came along home .
When he got home , the puppy - dog was dead .
His Mammy looked at it , and she said ,--
" Law ' s sake !
Epaminondas , what you got there ?"
" A puppy - dog , Mammy ," said Epaminondas .
" A _puppy - dog_ !"
said his Mammy .
" My gracious sakes alive , Epaminondas , you ain ' t got the sense you was born with !
That ain ' t the way to carry a puppy - dog !
The way to carry a puppy - dog is to take a long piece of string and tie one end of it round the puppy - dog ' s neck and put the puppy - dog on the ground , and take hold of the other end of the string and come along home , like this ."
" All right , Mammy ," said Epaminondas .
Next day Epaminondas went to see his Auntie again , and when he came to go home she gave him a loaf of bread to carry to his Mammy ; a brown , fresh , crusty loaf of bread .
So Epaminondas tied a string around the end of the loaf and took hold of the end of the string and came along home , like this .
( Imitate dragging something along the ground .)
When he got home his Mammy looked at the thing on the end of the string , and she said ,--
" My laws a - massy !
Epaminondas , what you got on the end of that string ?"
" Bread , Mammy ," said Epaminondas ; " Auntie gave it to me ."
" Bread !!!"
said his Mammy .
" O Epaminondas , Epaminondas , you ain ' t got the sense you was born with ; you never did have the sense you was born with ; you never will have the sense you was born with !
Now I ain ' t gwine tell you any more ways to bring truck home .
And don ' t you go see your Auntie , neither .
I ' ll go see her my own self .
But I ' ll just tell you one thing , Epaminondas !
You see these here six mince pies I done make ?
You see how I done set ' em on the doorstep to cool ?
Well , now , you hear me , Epaminondas , _you be careful how you step on those pies_ !"
" Yes , Mammy ," said Epaminondas .
Then Epaminondas ' Mammy put on her bonnet and her shawl and took a basket in her hand and went away to see Auntie .
The six mince pies sat cooling in a row on the doorstep .
And then ,-- and then ,-- Epaminondas _was_ careful how he stepped on those pies !
He stepped ( imitate )-- right -- in -- the -- middle -- of -- every -- one .
* * * * *
And , do you know , children , nobody knows what happened next !
The person who told me the story didn ' t know ; nobody knows .
But you can guess .
THE BOY WHO CRIED " WOLF !"
There was once a shepherd - boy who kept his flock at a little distance from the village .
Once he thought he would play a trick on the villagers and have some fun at their expense .
So he ran toward the village crying out , with all his might ,--
" Wolf !
Wolf !
Come and help !
The wolves are at my lambs !"
The kind villagers left their work and ran to the field to help him .
But when they got there the boy laughed at them for their pains ; there was no wolf there .
Still another day the boy tried the same trick , and the villagers came running to help and got laughed at again .
Then one day a wolf did break into the fold and began killing the lambs .
In great fright , the boy ran for help .
" Wolf !
Wolf !"
he screamed .
" There is a wolf in the flock !
Help !"
The villagers heard him , but they thought it was another mean trick ; no one paid the least attention , or went near him .
And the shepherd - boy lost all his sheep .
That is the kind of thing that happens to people who lie : even when they tell the truth no one believes them .
THE FROG KING
Did you ever hear the old story about the foolish Frogs ?
The Frogs in a certain swamp decided that they needed a king ; they had always got along perfectly well without one , but they suddenly made up their minds that a king they must have .
They sent a messenger to Jove and begged him to send a king to rule over them .
Jove saw how stupid they were , and sent a king who could not harm them : he tossed a big log into the middle of the pond .
At the splash the Frogs were terribly frightened , and dived into their holes to hide from King Log .
But after a while , when they saw that the king never moved , they got over their fright and went and sat on him .
And as soon as they found he really could not hurt them they began to despise him ; and finally they sent another messenger to Jove to ask for a new king .
Jove sent an eel .
The Frogs were much pleased and a good deal frightened when King Eel came wriggling and swimming among them .
But as the days went on , and the eel was perfectly harmless , they stopped being afraid ; and as soon as they stopped fearing King Eel they stopped respecting him .
Soon they sent a third messenger to Jove , and begged that they might have a better king ,-- a king who was worth while .
It was too much ; Jove was angry at their stupidity at last .
" I will give you a king such as you deserve !"
he said ; and he sent them a Stork .
As soon as the Frogs came to the surface to greet the new king , King Stork caught them in his long bill and gobbled them up .
One after another they came bobbing up , and one after another the stork ate them .
He was indeed a king worthy of them !
THE SUN AND THE WIND
The Sun and the Wind once had a quarrel as to which was the stronger .
Each believed himself to be the more powerful .
While they were arguing they saw a traveller walking along the country highway , wearing a great cloak .
" Here is a chance to test our strength ," said the Wind ; " let us see which of us is strong enough to make that traveller take off his cloak ; the one who can do that shall be acknowledged the more powerful ."
" Agreed ," said the Sun .
Instantly the Wind began to blow ; he puffed and tugged at the man ' s cloak , and raised a storm of hail and rain , to beat at it .
But the colder it grew and the more it stormed , the tighter the traveller held his cloak around him .
The Wind could not get it off .
Now it was the Sun ' s turn .
He shone with all his beams on the man ' s shoulders .
As it grew hotter and hotter , the man unfastened his cloak ; then he threw it back ; at last he took it off !
The Sun had won .
THE LITTLE JACKAL AND THE ALLIGATOR
The little Jackal was very fond of shell - fish .
He used to go down by the river and hunt along the edges for crabs and such things .
And once , when he was hunting for crabs , he was so hungry that he put his paw into the water after a crab without looking first ,-- which you never should do !
The minute he put in his paw , _snap_ !-- the big Alligator who lives in the mud down there had it in his jaws .
" Oh , dear !"
thought the little Jackal ; " the big Alligator has my paw in his mouth !
In another minute he will pull me down and gobble me up !
What shall I do ?
what shall I do ?"
Then he thought , suddenly , " I ' ll deceive him !"
So he put on a very cheerful voice , as if nothing at all were the matter , and he said ,--
" Ho !
ho !
Clever Mr Alligator !
Smart Mr Alligator , to take that old bulrush root for my paw !
I hope you ' ll find it very tender !"
The old Alligator was hidden away beneath the mud and bulrush leaves , and he couldn ' t see anything .
He thought , " Pshaw !
I ' ve made a mistake ."
So he opened his mouth and let the little Jackal go .
The little Jackal ran away as fast as he could , and as he ran he called out ,--
" Thank you , Mr Alligator !
Kind Mr Alligator !
_So_ kind of you to let me go !"
The old Alligator lashed with his tail and snapped with his jaws , but it was too late ; the little Jackal was out of reach .
After this the little Jackal kept away from the river , out of danger .
But after about a week he got such an appetite for crabs that nothing else would do at all ; he felt that he must have a crab .
So he went down by the river and looked all around , very carefully .
He didn ' t see the old Alligator , but he thought to himself , " I think I ' ll not take any chances ."
So he stood still and began to talk out loud to himself .
He said ,--
" When I don ' t see any little crabs on the land I generally see them sticking out of the water , and then I put my paw in and catch them .
I wonder if there are any fat little crabs in the water to - day ?"
The old Alligator was hidden down in the mud at the bottom of the river , and when he heard what the little Jackal said , he thought , " Aha !
I ' ll pretend to be a little crab , and when he puts his paw in , I ' ll make my dinner of him ."
So he stuck the black end of his snout above the water and waited .
The little Jackal took one look , and then he said ,--
" Thank you , Mr Alligator !
Kind Mr Alligator !
You are _exceedingly_ kind to show me where you are !
I will have dinner elsewhere ."
And he ran away like the wind .
The old Alligator foamed at the mouth , he was so angry , but the little Jackal was gone .
For two whole weeks the little Jackal kept away from the river .
Then , one day he got a feeling inside him that nothing but crabs could satisfy : he felt that he must have at least one crab .
Very cautiously , he went down to the river and looked all around .
He saw no sign of the old Alligator .
Still , he did not mean to take any chances .
So he stood quite still and began to talk to himself ,-- it was a little way he had .
He said ,--
" When I don ' t see any little crabs on the shore , or sticking up out of the water , I usually see them blowing bubbles from under the water ; the little bubbles go _puff , puff , puff_ , and then they go _pop , pop , pop_ , and they show me where the little juicy crabs are , so I can put my paw in and catch them .
I wonder if I shall see any little bubbles to - day ?"
The old Alligator , lying low in the mud and weeds , heard this , and he thought , " Pooh !
_That ' s_ easy enough ; I ' ll just blow some little crab - bubbles , and then he will put his paw in where I can get it ."
So he blew , and he blew , a mighty blast , and the bubbles rose in a perfect whirlpool , fizzing and swirling .
The little Jackal didn ' t have to be told who was underneath those bubbles : he took one quick look , and off he ran .
But as he went , he sang ,--
" Thank you , Mr Alligator !
Kind Mr Alligator !
You are the kindest Alligator in the world , to show me where you are , so nicely !
I ' ll breakfast at another part of the river ."
The old Alligator was so furious that he crawled up on the bank and went after the little Jackal ; but , dear , dear , he couldn ' t catch the little Jackal ; he ran far too fast .
After this , the little Jackal did not like to risk going near the water , so he ate no more crabs .
But he found a garden of wild figs , which were so good that he went there every day , and ate them instead of shell - fish .
Now the old Alligator found this out , and he made up his mind to have the little Jackal for supper , or to die trying .
So he crept , and crawled , and dragged himself over the ground to the garden of wild figs .
There he made a huge pile of figs under the biggest of the wild fig trees , and hid himself in the pile .
After a while the little Jackal came dancing into the garden , very happy and free from care ,-- _but_ looking all around .
He saw the huge pile of figs under the big fig tree .
" H - m ," he thought , " that looks singularly like my friend , the Alligator .
I ' ll investigate a bit ."
He stood quite still and began to talk to himself ,-- it was a little way he had .
He said ,--
" The little figs I like best are the fat , ripe , juicy ones that drop off when the breeze blows ; and then the wind blows them about on the ground , this way and that ; the great heap of figs over there is so still that I think they must be all bad figs ."
The old Alligator , underneath his fig pile , thought ,--
" Bother the suspicious little Jackal !
I shall have to make these figs roll about , so that he will think the wind moves them ."
And straight - way he humped himself up and moved , and sent the little figs flying ,-- and his back showed through .
The little Jackal did not wait for a second look .
He ran out of the garden like the wind .
But as he ran he called back ,--
" Thank you , again , Mr Alligator ; very sweet of you to show me where you are ; I can ' t stay to thank you as I should like : good - bye !"
At this the old Alligator was beside himself with rage .
He vowed that he would have the little Jackal for supper this time , come what might .
So he crept and crawled over the ground till he came to the little Jackal ' s house .
Then he crept and crawled inside , and hid himself there in the house , to wait till the little Jackal should come home .
By and by the little Jackal came dancing home , happy and free from care ,-- _but_ looking all around .
Presently , as he came along , he saw that the ground was all raked up as if something very heavy had been dragged over it .
The little Jackal stopped and looked .
" What ' s this ?
what ' s this ?"
he said .
Then he saw that the door of his house was crushed at the sides and broken , as if something very big had gone through it .
" What ' s this ?
What ' s this ?"
the little Jackal said .
" I think I ' ll investigate a little !"
So he stood quite still and began to talk to himself ( you remember , it was a little way he had ), but loudly .
He said ,--
" How strange that my little House doesn ' t speak to me !
Why don ' t you speak to me , little House ?
You always speak to me , if everything is all right , when I come home .
I wonder if anything is wrong with my little House ?"
The old Alligator thought to himself that he must certainly pretend to be the little House , or the little Jackal would never come in .
So he put on as pleasant a voice as he could ( which is not saying much ) and said ,--
" Hullo , little Jackal !"
Oh !
When the little Jackal heard that , he was frightened enough , for once .
" It ' s the old Alligator ," he said , " and if I don ' t make an end of him this time he will certainly make an end of me .
What shall I do ?"
He thought very fast .
Then he spoke out pleasantly .
" Thank you , little House ," he said , " it ' s good to hear your pretty voice , dear little House , and I will be in with you in a minute ; only first I must gather some firewood for dinner ."
Then he went and gathered firewood , and more firewood , and more firewood ; and he piled it all up solid against the door and round the house ; and then he set fire to it !
And it smoked and burned till it smoked that old Alligator to smoked herring !
THE LARKS IN THE CORNFIELD
There was once a family of little Larks who lived with their mother in a nest in a cornfield .
When the corn was ripe the mother Lark watched very carefully to see if there were any sign of the reapers ' coming , for she knew that when they came their sharp knives would cut down the nest and hurt the baby Larks .
So every day , when she went out for food , she told the little Larks to look and listen very closely to everything that went on , and to tell her all they saw and heard when she came home .
One day when she came home the little Larks were much frightened .
" Oh , Mother , dear Mother ," they said , " you must move us away to - night !
The farmer was in the field to - day , and he said , ' The corn is ready to cut ; we must call in the neighbours to help .'
And then he told his son to go out to - night and ask all the neighbours to come and reap the corn to - morrow ."
The mother Lark laughed .
" Don ' t be frightened ," she said ; " if he waits for his neighbours to reap the corn we shall have plenty of time to move ; tell me what he says to - morrow ."
The next night the little Larks were quite trembling with fear ; the moment their mother got home they cried out , " Mother , you must surely move us to - night !
The farmer came to - day and said , ' The corn is getting too ripe ; we cannot wait for our neighbours ; we must ask our relatives to help us .'
And then he called his son and told him to ask all the uncles and cousins to come to - morrow and cut the corn .
Shall we not move to - night ?"
" Don ' t worry ," said the mother Lark ; " the uncles and cousins have plenty of reaping to do for themselves ; we ' ll not move yet ."
The third night , when the mother Lark came home , the baby Larks said , " Mother , dear , the farmer came to the field to - day , and when he looked at the corn he was quite angry ; he said , ' This will never do !
The corn is getting too ripe ; it ' s no use to wait for our relatives , we shall have to cut this corn ourselves .'
And then he called his son and said , ' Go out to - night and hire reapers , and to - morrow we will begin to cut .'"
" Well ," said the mother , " that is another story ; when a man begins to do his own business , instead of asking somebody else to do it , things get done .
I will move you out to - night ."
A TRUE STORY ABOUT A GIRL
Once there were four little girls who lived in a big , bare house , in the country .
They were very poor , but they had the happiest times you ever heard of , because they were very rich in everything except money .
They had a wonderful , wise father , who knew stories to tell , and who taught them their lessons in such a beautiful way that it was better than play ; they had a lovely , merry , kind mother , who was never too tired to help them work or watch them play ; and they had all the great green country to play in .
There were dark , shadowy woods , and fields of flowers , and a river .
And there was a big barn .
One of the little girls was named Louisa .
She was very pretty , and ever so strong ; she could run for miles through the woods and not get tired .
She had a splendid brain in her little head ; it liked study , and it thought interesting thoughts all day long .
Louisa liked to sit in a corner by herself , sometimes , and write thoughts in her diary ; all the little girls kept diaries .
She liked to make up stories out of her own head , and sometimes she made verses .
When the four little sisters had finished their lessons , and had helped their mother wash up and sew , they used to go to the big barn to play ; and the best play of all was theatricals .
Louisa liked theatricals better than anything .
They made the barn into a theatre , and the grown - up people came to see the plays they acted .
They used to climb up on the hay - loft for a stage , and the grown people sat in chairs on the floor .
It was great fun .
One of the plays they acted was _Jack and the Beanstalk_ .
They had a ladder from the floor to the loft , and on the ladder they tied a vine all the way up to the loft , to look like the wonderful beanstalk .
One of the little girls was dressed up to look like Jack , and she acted that part .
When it came to the place in the story where the giant tried to follow Jack , the little girl cut down the beanstalk , and down came the giant tumbling from the loft .
The giant was made out of pillows , with a great , fierce head of paper , and funny clothes .
Another story that they acted was _Cinderella_ .
They made a wonderful big pumpkin out of the wheelbarrow , trimmed with yellow paper , and Cinderella rolled away in it , when the fairy godmother waved her wand .
One other beautiful story they used to play .
It was the story of _Pilgrim ' s Progress_ ; if you have never heard it , you must be sure to read it as soon as you can read well enough to understand the old - fashioned words .
The little girls used to put shells in their hats for a sign they were on a pilgrimage , as the old pilgrims used to do ; then they made journeys over the hill behind the house , and through the woods , and down the lanes ; and when the pilgrimage was over they had apples and nuts to eat , in the happy land of home .
Louisa loved all these plays , and she made some of her own and wrote them down so that the children could act them .
But better than fun or writing Louisa loved her mother , and by and by , as the little girl began to grow into a big girl , she felt very sad to see her dear mother work so hard .
She helped all she could with the housework , but nothing could really help the tired mother except money ; she needed money for food and clothes , and someone grown up , to help in the house .
But there never was enough money for these things , and Louisa ' s mother grew more and more weary , and sometimes ill .
I cannot tell you how much Louisa suffered over this .
At last , as Louisa thought about it , she came to care more about helping her mother and her father and her sisters than about anything else in all the world .
And she began to work very hard to earn money .
She sewed for people , and when she was a little older she taught some little girls their lessons , and then she wrote stories for the papers .
Every bit of money she earned , except what she had to use , she gave to her dear family .
It helped very much , but it was so little that Louisa never felt as if she were doing anything .
Every year she grew more unselfish , and every year she worked harder .
She liked writing stories best of all her work , but she did not get much money for them , and some people told her she was wasting her time .
At last , one day , a publisher asked Louisa , who was now a woman , to write a book for girls .
Louisa was not very well , and she was very tired , but she always said , " I ' ll try ," when she had a chance to work ; so she said , " I ' ll try ," to the publisher .
When she thought about the book she remembered the good times she used to have with her sisters in the big , bare house in the country .
And so she wrote a story and put all that in it ; she put her dear mother and her wise father in it , and all the little sisters , and besides the jolly times and the plays , she put the sad , hard times in ,-- the work and worry and going without things .
When the book was written , she called it _Little Women_ , and sent it to the publisher .
And , children , the little book made Louisa famous .
It was so sweet and funny and sad and real ,-- like our own lives ,-- that everybody wanted to read it .
Everybody bought it , and much money came from it .
After so many years , little Louisa ' s wish came true : she bought a nice house for her family ; she sent one of her sisters to Europe , to study ; she gave her father books ; but best of all , she was able to see to it that the beloved mother , so tired and so ill , could have rest and happiness .
Never again did the dear mother have to do any hard work , and she had pretty things about her all the rest of her life .
Louisa Alcott , for that was Louisa ' s name , wrote many beautiful books after this , and she became one of the most famous women of America .
But I think the most beautiful thing about her is what I have been telling you : that she loved her mother so well that she gave her whole life to make her happy .
MY KINGDOM
The little Louisa I told you about , who wrote verses and stories in her diary , used to like to play that she was a princess , and that her kingdom was her own mind .
When she had unkind or dissatisfied thoughts , she tried to get rid of them by playing they were enemies of the kingdom ; and she drove them out with soldiers ; the soldiers were patience , duty , and love .
It used to help Louisa to be good to play this , and I think it may have helped make her the splendid woman she was afterward .
Maybe you would like to hear a poem she wrote about it , when she was only fourteen years old .
It will help you , too , to think the same thoughts .
A little kingdom I possess , Where thoughts and feelings dwell , And very hard I find the task Of governing it well ; For passion tempts and troubles me , A wayward will misleads , And selfishness its shadow casts On all my words and deeds .
How can I learn to rule myself , To be the child I should , Honest and brave , nor ever tire Of trying to be good ?
How can I keep a sunny soul To shine along life ' s way ?
How can I tune my little heart To sweetly sing all day ?
Dear Father , help me with the love That casteth out my fear , Teach me to lean on Thee , and feel That Thou art very near , That no temptation is unseen , No childish grief too small , Since Thou , with patience infinite , Doth soothe and comfort all .
I do not ask for any crown But that which all may win , Nor seek to conquer any world , Except the one within .
Be Thou my Guide until I find , Led by a tender hand , Thy happy kingdom in _myself_ , And dare to take command .
PICCOLA
Poor , sweet Piccola !
Did you hear What happened to Piccola , children dear ?
' Tis seldom Fortune such favour grants As fell to this little maid of France .
' Twas Christmas - time , and her parents poor Could hardly drive the wolf from the door , Striving with poverty ' s patient pain Only to live till summer again .
No gifts for Piccola !
Sad were they When dawned the morning of Christmas - day ; Their little darling no joy might stir , St Nicholas nothing would bring to her !
But Piccola never doubted at all That something beautiful must befall Every child upon Christmas - day , And so she slept till the dawn was gray .
And full of faith , when at last she woke , She stole to her shoe as the morning broke ; Such sounds of gladness filled all the air , Twas plain St Nicholas had been there !
In rushed Piccola sweet , half wild : Never was seen such a joyful child .
" See what the good saint brought !"
she cried , And mother and father must peep inside .
Now such a story who ever heard ?
There was a little shivering bird !
A sparrow , that in at the window flew , Had crept into Piccola ' s tiny shoe !
" How good poor Piccola must have been !"
She cried , as happy as any queen , While the starving sparrow she fed and warmed , And danced with rapture , she was so charmed .
Children , this story I tell to you , Of Piccola sweet and her bird , is true .
In the far - off land of France , they say , Still do they live to this very day .
THE LITTLE FIR TREE
When I was a very little girl some one , probably my mother , read to me Hans Christian Andersen ' s story of the Little Fir Tree .
It happened that I did not read it for myself or hear it again during my childhood .
One Christmas Day , when I was grown up , I found myself at a loss for the " one more " story called for by some little children with whom I was spending the holiday .
In the mental search for buried treasure which ensued , I came upon one or two word - impressions of the experiences of the Little Fir Tree , and forthwith wove them into what I supposed to be something of a reproduction of the original .
The latter part of the story had wholly faded from my memory , so that I " made up " to suit the tastes of my audience .
Afterward I told the story to a good many children , at one time or another , and it gradually took the shape it has here .
It was not until several years later that , in rereading Andersen for other purposes , I came upon the real story of the Little Fir Tree , and read it for myself .
Then indeed I was amused , and somewhat distressed , to find how far I had wandered from the text .
I give this explanation that the reader may know I do not presume to offer the little tale which follows as an " adaptation " of Andersen ' s famous story .
I offer it plainly as a story which children have liked , and which grew out of my early memories of Andersen ' s _The Little Fir Tree_ .
Once there was a Little Fir Tree , slim and pointed , and shiny , which stood in the great forest in the midst of some big fir trees , broad , and tall , and shadowy green .
The Little Fir Tree was very unhappy because he was not big like the others .
When the birds came flying into the woods and lit on the branches of the big trees and built their nests there , he used to call up to them ,--
" Come down , come down , rest in my branches !"
But they always said ,--
" Oh , no , no ; you are too little !"
When the splendid wind came blowing and singing through the forest , it bent and rocked and swung the tops of the big trees , and murmured to them .
Then the Little Fir Tree looked up , and called ,--
" Oh , please , dear wind , come down and play with me !"
But he always said ,--
" Oh , no ; you are too little , you are too little !"
In the winter the white snow fell softly , softly , and covered the great trees all over with wonderful caps and coats of white .
The Little Fir Tree , close down in the cover of the others , would call up ,--
" Oh , please , dear snow , give me a cap , too !
I want to play , too !"
But the snow always said ,--
" Oh no , no , no ; you are too little , you are too little !"
The worst of all was when men came into the wood , with sledges and teams of horses .
They came to cut the big trees down and carry them away .
Whenever one had been cut down and carried away the others talked about it , and nodded their heads , and the Little Fir Tree listened , and heard them say that when you were carried away so , you might become the mast of a mighty ship , and go far away over the ocean , and see many wonderful things ; or you might be part of a fine house in a great city , and see much of life .
The Little Fir Tree wanted greatly to see life , but he was always too little ; the men passed him by .
But by and by , one cold winter ' s morning , men came with a sledge and horses , and after they had cut here and there they came to the circle of trees round the Little Fir Tree , and looked all about .
" There are none little enough ," they said .
Oh !
how the Little Fir Tree pricked up his needles !
" Here is one ," said one of the men , " it is just little enough ."
And he touched the Little Fir Tree .
The Little Fir Tree was happy as a bird , because he knew they were about to cut him down .
And when he was being carried away on the sledge he lay wondering , _so_ contentedly , whether he should be the mast of a ship or part of a fine city house .
But when they came to the town he was taken out and set upright in a tub and placed on the edge of a path in a row of other fir trees , all small , but none so little as he .
And then the Little Fir Tree began to see life .
People kept coming to look at the trees and to take them away .
But always when they saw the Little Fir Tree they shook their heads and said ,--
" It is too little , too little ."
Until , finally , two children came along , hand in hand , looking carefully at all the small trees .
When they saw the Little Fir Tree they cried out ,--
" We ' ll take this one ; it is just little enough !"
They took him out of his tub and carried him away , between them .
And the happy Little Fir Tree spent all his time wondering what it could be that he was just little enough for ; he knew it could hardly be a mast or a house , since he was going away with children .
He kept wondering , while they took him in through some big doors , and set him up in another tub , on the table , in a bare little room .
Very soon they went away , and came back again with a big basket , which they carried between them .
Then some pretty ladies , with white caps on their heads and white aprons over their blue dresses , came bringing little parcels .
The children took things out of the basket and began to play with the Little Fir Tree , just as he had often begged the wind and the snow and the birds to do .
He felt their soft little touches on his head and his twigs and his branches .
When he looked down at himself , as far as he could look , he saw that he was all hung with gold and silver chains !
There were strings of white fluffy stuff drooping around him ; his twigs held little gold nuts and pink , rosy balls and silver stars ; he had pretty little pink and white candles in his arms ; but last , and most wonderful of all , the children hung a beautiful white , floating doll - angel over his head !
The Little Fir Tree could not breathe , for joy and wonder .
What was it that he was , now ?
Why was this glory for him ?
After a time every one went away and left him .
It grew dusk , and the Little Fir Tree began to hear strange sounds through the closed doors .
Sometimes he heard a child crying .
He was beginning to be lonely .
It grew more and more shadowy .
All at once , the doors opened and the two children came in .
Two of the pretty ladies were with them .
They came up to the Little Fir Tree and quickly lighted all the little pink and white candles .
Then the two pretty ladies took hold of the table with the Little Fir Tree on it and pushed it , very smoothly and quickly , out of the doors , across a hall , and in at another door .
The Little Fir Tree had a sudden sight of a long room with many little white beds in it , of children propped up on pillows in the beds , and of other children in great wheeled chairs , and others hobbling about or sitting in little chairs .
He wondered why all the little children looked so white and tired ; he did not know that he was in a hospital .
But before he could wonder any more his breath was quite taken away by the shout those little white children gave .
" Oh !
oh !
m - m !
m - m !"
they cried .
" How pretty !
How beautiful !
Oh , isn ' t it lovely !"
He knew they must mean him , for all their shining eyes were looking straight at him .
He stood as straight as a mast , and quivered in every needle , for joy .
Presently one little weak child - voice called out ,--
" It ' s the nicest Christmas tree I ever saw !"
And then , at last , the Little Fir Tree knew what he was ; he was a Christmas tree !
And from his shiny head to his feet he was glad , through and through , because he was just little enough to be the nicest kind of tree in the world !
HOW MOSES WAS SAVED
Thousands of years ago , many years before David lived , there was a very wise and good man of his people who was a friend and adviser of the king of Egypt .
And for love of this friend , the king of Egypt had let numbers of the Israelites settle in his land .
But after the king and his Israelitish friend were dead , there was a new king , who hated the Israelites .
When he saw how strong they were , and how many there were of them , he began to be afraid that some day they might number more than the Egyptians , and might take his land from him .
Then he and his rulers did a wicked thing .
They made the Israelites slaves .
And they gave them terrible tasks to do , without proper rest , or food , or clothes .
For they hoped that the hardship would kill off the Israelites .
They thought the old men would die and the young men be so ill and weary that they could not bring up families , and so the race would dwindle away .
But in spite of the work and suffering , the Israelites remained strong , and more and more boys grew up , to make the king afraid .
Then he did the most wicked thing of all .
He ordered his soldiers to kill every boy baby that should be born in an Israelitish family ; he did not care about the girls , because they could not grow up to fight .
Very soon after this wicked order , a boy baby was born in a certain Israelitish family .
When his mother first looked at him her heart was nearly broken , for he was even more beautiful than most babies are ,-- so strong and fair and sweet .
But he was a boy !
How could she save him from death ?
Somehow , she contrived to keep him hidden for three whole months .
But at the end of that time , she saw that it would not be possible to keep him safe any longer .
She had been thinking all this time about what she should do , and now she carried out her plan .
First , she took a basket made of bulrushes and daubed it all over with pitch , so that it was water - tight , and then she laid the baby in it ; then she carried it to the edge of the river and laid it in the flags by the river ' s brink .
It did not show at all , unless one were quite near it .
Then she kissed her little son and left him there .
But his sister stood far off , not seeming to watch , but really watching carefully to see what would happen to the baby .
Soon there was the sound of talk and laughter , and a train of beautiful women came down to the water ' s edge .
It was the king ' s daughter , come down to bathe in the river , with her maidens .
The maidens walked along by the river side .
As the king ' s daughter came near to the water , she saw the strange little basket lying in the flags , and she sent her maid to bring it to her .
And when she had opened it , she saw the child ; the poor baby was crying .
When she saw him , so helpless and so beautiful , crying for his mother , the king ' s daughter pitied him and loved him .
She knew the cruel order of her father , and she said at once , " This is one of the Hebrews ' children ."
At that moment the baby ' s sister came to the princess and said , " Shall I go and find thee a nurse from the Hebrew women , so that she may nurse the child for thee ?"
Not a word did she say about whose child it was , but perhaps the princess guessed ; I don ' t know .
At all events , she told the little girl to go .
So the maiden went , and brought her mother !
Then the king ' s daughter said to the baby ' s mother , " Take this child away and nurse it for me , and I will give thee wages ."
Was not that a strange thing ?
And can you think how happy the baby ' s mother was ?
For now the baby would be known only as the princess ' s adopted child , and would be safe .
And it was so .
The mother kept him until he was old enough to be taken to the princess ' s palace .
Then he was brought and given to the king ' s daughter , and he became her son .
And she named him Moses .
But the strangest part of the whole story is , that when Moses grew to be a man he became so strong and wise that it was he who at last saved his people from the king and rescued them from the Egyptians .
The one child saved by the king ' s own daughter was the very one the king would most have wanted to kill , if he had known .
THE TEN FAIRIES
Once upon a time there was a dear little girl , whose name was Elsa .
Elsa ' s father and mother worked very hard and became rich .
But they loved Elsa so much that they did not like her to do any work ; very foolishly , they let her play all the time .
So when Elsa grew up , she did not know how to do anything ; she could not make bread , she could not sweep a room , she could not sew a seam ; she could only laugh and sing .
But she was so sweet and merry that everybody loved her .
And by and by , she married one of the people who loved her , and had a house of her own to take care of .
Then , then , my dears , came hard times for Elsa !
There were so many things to be done in the house , and she did not know how to do any of them !
And because she had never worked at all it made her very tired even to try ; she was tired before the morning was over , every day .
The maid would come and say , " How shall I do this ?"
or " How shall I do that ?"
and Elsa would have to say , " I don ' t know ."
Then the maid would pretend that she did not know , either ; and when she saw her mistress sitting about doing nothing , she , too , sat about , idle .
Elsa ' s husband had a hard time of it ; he had only poor food to eat , and it was not ready at the right time , and the house looked all in a muddle .
It made him sad , and that made Elsa sad , for she wanted to do everything just right .
At last , one day , Elsa ' s husband went away quite cross ; he said to her , as he went out of the door , " It is no wonder that the house looks so , when you sit all day with your hands in your lap !"
Little Elsa cried bitterly when he was gone , for she did not want to make her husband unhappy and cross , and she wanted the house to look nice .
" Oh , dear ," she sobbed , " I wish I could do things right !
I wish I could work !
I wish -- I wish I had ten good fairies to work for me !
Then I could keep the house !"
As she said the words , a great grey man stood before her ; he was wrapped in a strange grey cloak that covered him from head to foot ; and he smiled at Elsa .
" What is the matter , dear ?"
he said .
" Why do you cry ?"
" Oh , I am crying because I do not know how to keep the house ," said Elsa .
" I cannot make bread , I cannot sweep , I cannot sew a seam ; when I was a little girl I never learned to work , and now I cannot do anything right .
I wish I had ten good fairies to help me !"
" You shall have them , dear ," said the grey man , and he shook his strange grey cloak .
Pouf !
Out hopped ten tiny fairies , no bigger than that !
" These shall be your servants , Elsa ," said the grey man ; " they are faithful and clever , and they will do everything you want them to , just right .
But the neighbours might stare and ask questions if they saw these little chaps running about your house , so I will hide them away for you .
Give me your little useless hands ."
Wondering , Elsa stretched out her pretty , little , white hands .
" Now stretch out your little useless fingers , dear !"
Elsa stretched out her pretty pink fingers .
The grey man touched each one of the ten little fingers , and as he touched them he said their names : " Little Thumb ; Forefinger ; Thimble - finger ; Ring - finger ; Little Finger ; Little Thumb ; Forefinger ; Thimble - finger ; Ring - finger ; Little Finger !"
And as he named the fingers , one after another , the tiny fairies bowed their tiny heads ; there was a fairy for every name .
" Hop !
hide yourselves away !"
said the grey man .
Hop , hop !
The fairies sprang to Elsa ' s knee , then to the palms of her hands , and then -- whisk !
they were all hidden away in her little pink fingers , a fairy in every finger !
And the grey man was gone .
Elsa sat and looked with wonder at her little white hands and the ten useless fingers .
But suddenly the little fingers began to stir .
The tiny fairies who were hidden away there were not used to remaining still , and they were getting restless .
They stirred so that Elsa jumped up and ran to the cooking table , and took hold of the bread board .
No sooner had she touched the bread board than the little fairies began to work : they measured the flour , mixed the bread , kneaded the loaves , and set them to rise , quicker than you could wink ; and when the bread was done , it was as nice as you could wish .
Then the little fairy - fingers seized the broom , and in a twinkling they were making the house clean .
And so it went , all day .
Elsa flew about from one thing to another , and the ten fairies did the work , just right .
When the maid saw her mistress working , she began to work , too ; and when she saw how beautifully everything was done , she was ashamed to do anything badly herself .
In a little while the housework was going smoothly , and Elsa could laugh and sing again .
There was no more crossness in that house .
Elsa ' s husband grew so proud of her that he went about saying to everybody , " My grandmother was a fine housekeeper , and my mother was a fine housekeeper , but neither of them could hold a candle to my wife .
She has only one maid , but , to see the work done , you would think she had as many servants as she has fingers on her hands !"
When Elsa heard that , she used to laugh , but she never , never told .
THE ELVES AND THE SHOEMAKER
Once upon a time there was an honest shoemaker , who was very poor .
He worked as hard as he could , and still he could not earn enough to keep himself and his wife .
At last there came a day when he had nothing left but one piece of leather , big enough to make one pair of shoes .
He cut out the shoes , ready to stitch , and left them on the bench ; then he said his prayers and went to bed , trusting that he could finish the shoes on the next day and sell them .
Bright and early the next morning , he rose and went to his work bench .
There lay a pair of shoes , beautifully made , and the leather was gone !
There was no sign of anyone having been there .
The shoemaker and his wife did not know what to make of it .
But the first customer who came was so pleased with the beautiful shoes that he bought them , and paid so much that the shoemaker was able to buy leather enough for two pairs .
Happily , he cut them out , and then , as it was late , he left the pieces on the bench , ready to sew in the morning .
But when morning came , two pairs of shoes lay on the bench , most beautifully made , and no sign of anyone who had been there .
The shoemaker and his wife were quite at a loss .
That day a customer came and bought both pairs , and paid so much for them that the shoemaker bought leather for four pairs , with the money .
Once more he cut out the shoes and left them on the bench .
And in the morning all four pairs were made .
It went on like this until the shoemaker and his wife were prosperous people .
But they could not be satisfied to have so much done for them and not know to whom they should be grateful .
So one night , after the shoemaker had left the pieces of leather on the bench , he and his wife hid themselves behind a curtain , and left a light in the room .
Just as the clock struck twelve the door opened softly , and two tiny elves came dancing into the room , hopped on to the bench , and began to put the pieces together .
They were quite naked , but they had wee little scissors and hammers and thread .
Tap !
tap !
went the little hammers ; stitch , stitch , went the thread , and the little elves were hard at work .
No one ever worked so fast as they .
In almost no time all the shoes were stitched and finished .
Then the tiny elves took hold of each other ' s hands and danced round the shoes on the bench , till the shoemaker and his wife had hard work not to laugh aloud .
But as the clock struck two , the little creatures whisked away out of the window , and left the room all as it was before .
The shoemaker and his wife looked at each other , and said , " How can we thank the little elves who have made us happy and prosperous ?"
" I should like to make them some pretty clothes ," said the wife , " they are quite naked ."
" I will make the shoes if you will make the coats ," said her husband .
That very day they commenced their task .
The wife cut out two tiny , tiny coats of green , two weeny , weeny waistcoats of yellow , two little pairs of trousers , of white , two bits of caps , bright red ( for every one knows the elves love bright colours ), and her husband made two little pairs of shoes with long , pointed toes .
They made the wee clothes as dainty as could be , with nice little stitches and pretty buttons ; and by Christmas time , they were finished .
On Christmas eve , the shoemaker cleaned his bench , and on it , instead of leather , he laid the two sets of gay little fairy - clothes .
Then he and his wife hid away as before , to watch .
Promptly at midnight , the little naked elves came in .
They hopped upon the bench ; but when they saw the little clothes there , they laughed and danced for joy .
Each one caught up his little coat and things and began to put them on .
Then they looked at each other and made all kinds of funny motions in their delight .
At last they began to dance , and when the clock struck two , they danced quite away , out of the window .
They never came back any more , but from that day they gave the shoemaker and his wife good luck , so that they never needed any more help .
WHO KILLED THE OTTER ' S BABIES ?
Once the Otter came to the Mouse - deer and said , " Friend Mouse - deer , will you please take care of my babies while I go to the river , to catch fish ?"
" Certainly ," said the Mouse - deer , " go along ."
But when the Otter came back from the river , with a string of fish , he found his babies crushed flat .
" What does this mean , Friend Mouse - deer ?"
he said .
" Who killed my children while you were taking care of them ?"
" I am very sorry ," said the Mouse - deer , " but you know I am Chief Dancer of the War - dance , and the Woodpecker came and sounded the war - gong , so I danced .
I forgot your children , and trod on them ."
" I shall go to King Solomon ," said the Otter , " and you shall be punished ."
Soon the Mouse - deer was called before King Solomon .
" Did you kill the Otter ' s babies ?"
said the king .
" Yes , your Majesty ," said the Mouse - deer , " but I did not mean to ."
" How did it happen ?"
said the king .
" Your Majesty knows ," said the Mouse - deer , " that I am Chief Dancer of the War - dance .
The Woodpecker came and sounded the war - gong , and I had to dance ; and as I danced I trod on the Otter ' s children ."
" Send for the Woodpecker ," said King Solomon .
When the Woodpecker came , he said to him , " Was it you who sounded the war - gong ?"
" Yes , your Majesty ," said the Woodpecker , " but I had to ."
" Why ?"
said the king .
" Your Majesty knows ," said the Woodpecker , " that I am Chief Beater of the War - gong , and I sounded the gong because I saw the Great Lizard wearing his sword ."
" Send for the Great Lizard ," said King Solomon .
When the Great Lizard came , he asked him , " Was it you who were wearing your sword ?"
" Yes , your Majesty ," said the Great Lizard ; " but I had to ."
" Why ?"
said the king .
" Your Majesty knows ," said the Great Lizard , " that I am Chief Protector of the Sword .
I wore my sword because the Tortoise came wearing his coat of mail ."
So the Tortoise was sent for .
" Why did you wear your coat of mail ?"
said the king .
" I put it on , your Majesty ," said the Tortoise , " because I saw the King - crab trailing his three - edged pike ."
Then the King - crab was sent for .
" Why were you trailing your three - edged pike ?"
said King Solomon .
" Because , your Majesty ," said the King - crab , " I saw that the Crayfish had shouldered his lance ."
Immediately the Crayfish was sent for .
" Why did you shoulder your lance ?"
said the king .
" Because , your Majesty ," said the Crayfish , " I saw the Otter coming down to the river to kill my children ."
" Oh ," said King Solomon , " if that is the case , the Otter killed the Otter ' s children .
And the Mouse - deer cannot be blamed , by the law of the land !"
EARLY
I like to lie and wait to see My mother braid her hair .
It is as long as it can be , And yet she doesn ' t care .
I love my mother ' s hair .
And then the way her fingers go ; They look so quick and white ,-- In and out , and to and fro , And braiding in the light , And it is always right .
So then she winds it , shiny brown , Around her head into a crown , Just like the day before .
And then she looks and pats it down , And looks a minute more ; While I stay here all still and cool .
Oh , isn ' t morning beautiful ?
THE BRAHMIN , THE TIGER , AND THE JACKAL
Do you know what a Brahmin is ?
A Brahmin is a very good and gentle kind of man who lives in India , and who treats all the beasts as if they were his brothers .
There is a great deal more to know about Brahmins , but that is enough for the story .
One day a Brahmin was walking along a country road when he came upon a Tiger , shut up in a strong iron cage .
The villagers had caught him and shut him up there for his wickedness .
" Oh , Brother Brahmin , Brother Brahmin ," said the Tiger , " please let me out , to get a little drink !
I am so thirsty , and there is no water here ."
" But Brother Tiger ," said the Brahmin , " you know if I should let you out , you would spring on me and eat me up ."
" Never , Brother Brahmin !"
said the Tiger .
" Never in the world would I do such an ungrateful thing !
Just let me out a little minute , to get a little , little drink of water , Brother Brahmin !"
So the Brahmin unlocked the door and let the Tiger out .
The moment he was out he sprang on the Brahmin , and was about to eat him up .
" But , Brother Tiger ," said the Brahmin , " you promised you would not .
It is not fair or just that you should eat me , when I set you free ."
" It is perfectly right and just ," said the Tiger , " and I shall eat you up ."
However , the Brahmin argued so hard that at last the Tiger agreed to wait and ask the first five whom they should meet , whether it was fair for him to eat the Brahmin , and to abide by their decision .
The first thing they came to , to ask , was an old Banyan Tree , by the wayside .
( A banyan tree is a kind of fruit tree .)
" Brother Banyan ," said the Brahmin , eagerly , " does it seem to you right or just that this Tiger should eat me , when I set him free from his cage ?"
The Banyan Tree looked down at them and spoke in a tired voice .
" In the summer ," he said , " when the sun is hot , men come and sit in the cool of my shade and refresh themselves with the fruit of my branches .
But when evening falls , and they are rested , they break my twigs and scatter my leaves , and stone my boughs for more fruit .
Men are an ungrateful race .
Let the Tiger eat the Brahmin ."
The Tiger sprang to eat the Brahmin , but the Brahmin said ,--
" Wait , wait ; we have asked only one .
We have still four to ask ."
Presently they came to a place where an old Bullock was lying by the road .
The Brahmin went up to him and said ,--
" Brother Bullock , oh , Brother Bullock , does it seem to you a fair thing that this Tiger should eat me up , after I have just freed him from a cage ?"
The Bullock looked up , and answered in a deep , grumbling voice ,--
" When I was young and strong my master used me hard , and I served him well .
I carried heavy loads and carried them far .
Now that I am old and weak and cannot work , he leaves me without food or water , to die by the wayside .
Men are a thankless lot .
Let the Tiger eat the Brahmin ."
The Tiger sprang , but the Brahmin spoke very quickly ,--
" Oh , but this is only the second , Brother Tiger ; you promised to ask five ."
The Tiger grumbled a good deal , but at last he went on again with the Brahmin .
And after a time they saw an Eagle , high overhead .
The Brahmin called up to him imploringly ,--
" Oh , Brother Eagle , Brother Eagle !
Tell us if it seems to you fair that this Tiger should eat me up , when I have just saved him from a frightful cage ?"
The Eagle soared slowly overhead a moment , then he came lower , and spoke in a thin , clear voice .
" I live high in the air ," he said , " and I do no man any harm .
Yet as often as they find my eyrie , men stone my young and rob my nest and shoot at me with arrows .
Men are a cruel breed .
Let the Tiger eat the Brahmin !"
The Tiger sprang upon the Brahmin , to eat him up ; and this time the Brahmin had very hard work to persuade him to wait .
At last he did persuade him , however , and they walked on together .
And in a little while they saw an old Alligator , lying half buried in mud and slime , at the river ' s edge .
" Brother Alligator , oh , Brother Alligator !"
said the Brahmin , " does it seem at all right or fair to you that this Tiger should eat me up , when I have just now let him out of a cage ?"
The old Alligator turned in the mud , and grunted , and snorted ; then he said ,--
" I lie here in the mud all day , as harmless as a pigeon ; I hunt no man , yet every time a man sees me , he throws stones at me , and pokes me with sharp sticks , and jeers at me .
Men are a worthless lot .
Let the Tiger eat the Brahmin !"
At this the Tiger was going to eat the Brahmin at once .
The poor Brahmin had to remind him , again and again , that they had asked only four .
" Wait till we ' ve asked one more !
Wait until we see a fifth !"
he begged .
Finally , the Tiger walked on with him .
After a time , they met the little Jackal , coming gaily down the road toward them .
" Oh , Brother Jackal , dear Brother Jackal ," said the Brahmin , " give us your opinion !
Do you think it right or fair that this Tiger should eat me , when I set him free from a terrible cage ?"
" Beg pardon ?"
said the little Jackal .
" I said ," said the Brahmin , raising his voice , " do you think it is fair that the Tiger should eat me , when I set him free from his cage ?"
" Cage ?"
said the little Jackal , vacantly .
" Yes , yes , his cage ," said the Brahmin .
" We want your opinion .
Do you think ----"
" Oh ," said the little Jackal , " you want my opinion ?
Then may I beg you to speak a little more loudly , and make the matter quite clear ?
I am a little slow of understanding .
Now what was it ?"
" Do you think ," said the Brahmin , " it is right for this Tiger to eat me , when I set him free from his cage ?"
" What cage ?"
said the little Jackal .
" Why , the cage he was in ," said the Brahmin .
" You see ----"
" But I don ' t altogether understand ," said the little Jackal .
" You ' set him free ,' you say ?"
" Yes , yes , yes !"
said the Brahmin .
" It was this way : I was walking along , and I saw the Tiger ----"
" Oh , dear , dear !"
interrupted the little Jackal ; " I never can see through it , if you go on like that , with a long story .
If you really want my opinion you must make the matter clear .
What sort of cage was it ?"
" Why , a big , ordinary cage , an iron cage ," said the Brahmin .
" That gives me no idea at all ," said the little Jackal .
" See here , my friends , if we are to get on with this matter you ' d best show me the spot .
Then I can understand in a jiffy .
Show me the cage ."
So the Brahmin , the Tiger , and the little Jackal walked back together to the spot where the cage was .
" Now , let us understand the situation ," said the little Jackal .
" Friend Brahmin , where were you ?"
" I stood just here by the roadside ," said the Brahmin .
" Tiger , and where were you ?"
said the little Jackal .
" Why , in the cage , of course ," roared the Tiger .
" Oh , I beg your pardon , Father Tiger ," said the little Jackal , " I really am _so_ stupid ; I cannot _quite_ understand what happened .
If you will have a little patience ,-- _how_ were you in the cage ?
What position were you in ?"
" I stood here ," said the Tiger , leaping into the cage , " with my head over my shoulder , so ."
" Oh , thank you , thank you ," said the little Jackal , " that makes it _much_ clearer ; but I still don ' t _quite_ understand -- forgive my slow mind -- why did you not come out , by yourself ?"
" Can ' t you see that the door shut me in ?"
said the Tiger .
" Oh , I do beg your pardon ," said the little Jackal .
" I know I am very slow ; I can never understand things well unless I see just how they were ; if you could show me now exactly how that door works I am sure I could understand .
How does it shut ?"
" It shuts like this ," said the Brahmin , pushing it to .
" Yes ; but I don ' t see any lock ," said the little Jackal , " does it lock on the outside ?"
" It locks like this ," said the Brahmin .
And he shut and bolted the door !
" Oh , does it , indeed ?"
said the little Jackal .
" Does it , _indeed_ !
Well , Brother Brahmin , now that it is locked , I should advise you to let it stay locked !
As for you , my friend ," he said to the Tiger , " I think you will wait a good while before you ' ll find anyone to let you out again !"
Then he made a very low bow to the Brahmin .
" Good - bye , Brother ," he said .
" Your way lies that way , and mine lies this ; good - bye !"
THE LITTLE JACKAL AND THE CAMEL
All these stories about the little Jackal that I have told you , show how clever the little Jackal was .
But you know -- if you don ' t , you will when you are grown up -- that no matter how clever you are , sooner or later you surely meet some one who is more clever .
It is always so in life .
And it was so with the little Jackal .
This is what happened .
The little Jackal was , as you know , exceedingly fond of shell - fish , especially of river crabs .
Now there came a time when he had eaten all the crabs to be found on his own side of the river .
He knew there must be plenty on the other side , if he could only get to them , but he could not swim .
One day he thought of a plan .
He went to his friend the Camel , and said ,--
" Friend Camel , I know a spot where the sugar - cane grows thick ; I ' ll show you the way , if you will take me there ."
" Indeed I will ," said the Camel , who was very fond of sugar - cane .
" Where is it ?"
" It is on the other side of the river ," said the little Jackal ; " but we can manage it nicely , if you will take me on your back and swim over ."
The Camel was perfectly willing , so the little Jackal jumped on his back , and the Camel swam across the river , carrying him .
When they were safely over , the little Jackal jumped down and showed the Camel the sugar - cane field ; then he ran swiftly along the river bank , to hunt for crabs ; the Camel began to eat sugar - cane .
He ate happily , and noticed nothing around him .
Now , you know , a Camel is very big , and a Jackal is very little .
Consequently , the little Jackal had eaten his fill by the time the Camel had barely taken a mouthful .
The little Jackal had no mind to wait for his slow friend ; he wanted to be off home again , about his business .
So he ran round and round the sugar - cane field , and as he ran he sang and shouted , and made a great hullabaloo .
Of course , the villagers heard him at once .
" There is a Jackal in the sugar - cane ," they said ; " he will dig holes and destroy the roots ; we must go down and drive him out ."
So they came down , with sticks and stones .
When they got there , there was no Jackal to be seen ; but they saw the great Camel , eating away at the juicy sugar - cane .
They ran at him and beat him , and stoned him , and drove him away half dead .
When they had gone , leaving the poor Camel half killed , the little Jackal came dancing back from somewhere or other .
" I think it ' s time to go home , now ," he said ; " don ' t you ?"
" Well , you _are_ a pretty friend !"
said the Camel .
" The idea of your making such a noise , with your shouting and singing !
You brought this upon me .
What in the world made you do it ?
Why did you shout and sing ?"
" Oh , I don ' t know _why_ " said the little Jackal ,--" I always sing after dinner !"
" So ?"
said the Camel .
" Ah , very well , let us go home now ."
He took the little Jackal kindly on his back and started into the water .
When he began to swim he swam out to where the river was the very deepest .
There he stopped , and said ,--
" Oh , Jackal !"
" Yes ," said the little Jackal .
" I have the strangest feeling ," said the Camel ,--" I feel as if I must roll over ."
"' Roll over '!"
cried the Jackal .
" My goodness , don ' t do that !
If you do that , you ' ll drown me !
What in the world makes you want to do such a crazy thing ?
Why should you want to roll over ?"
" Oh , I don ' t know _why_ ," said the Camel slowly , " but I always roll over after dinner !"
So he rolled over .
And the little Jackal was drowned , for his sins , but the Camel came safely home .
THE GULLS OF SALT LAKE
The story I am going to tell you is about something that really happened , many years ago .
A brave little company of pioneers from the Atlantic coast crossed the Mississippi River and journeyed across the plains of Central North America in big covered wagons with many horses , and finally succeeded in climbing to the top of the great Rockies and down again into a valley in the very midst of the mountains .
It was a valley of brown , bare , desert soil , in a climate where almost no rain falls ; but the snow on the mountain - tops sent down little streams of pure water , the winds were gentle , and lying like a blue jewel at the foot of the western hills was a marvellous lake of salt water ,-- an inland sea .
So the pioneers settled there and built themselves huts and cabins for the first winter .
It had taken them many months to make the terrible journey ; many had died of weariness and illness on the way ; many died of hardship during the winter ; and the provisions they had brought in their wagons were so nearly gone that , by spring , they were living partly on roots , dug from the ground .
All their lives now depended on the crops of grain and vegetables which they could raise in the valley .
They made the barren land fertile by spreading water from the little streams over it ,-- what we call " irrigating "; and they planted enough corn and grain and vegetables for all the people .
Every one helped , and every one watched for the sprouting , with hopes , and prayers , and careful eyes .
In good time the seeds sprouted , and the dry , brown earth was covered with a carpet of tender , green , growing things .
No farmer ' s garden could have looked better than the great garden of the desert valley .
And from day to day the little shoots grew and flourished till they were all well above the ground .
Then a terrible thing happened .
One day , the men who were watering the crops saw a great number of crickets swarming over the ground at the edge of the gardens nearest the mountains .
They were hopping from the barren places into the young , green crops , and as they settled down they ate the tiny shoots and leaves to the ground .
More came , and more , and ever more , and as they came they spread out till they covered a big corner of the grain field .
And still more and more , till it was like an army of black , hopping , crawling crickets , streaming down the side of the mountain to kill the crops .
The men tried to kill the crickets by beating them down , but the numbers were so great that it was like beating at the sea .
Then they ran and told the terrible news , and all the village came to help .
They started fires ; they dug trenches and filled them with water ; they ran wildly about in the fields , killing what they could .
But while they fought in one place new armies of crickets marched down the mountain - sides and attacked the fields in other places .
And at last the people fell on their knees and wept and cried in despair , for they saw starvation and death in the fields .
A few knelt to pray .
Others gathered round and joined them , weeping .
More left their useless struggles and knelt beside their neighbours .
At last nearly all the people were kneeling on the desolate fields praying for deliverance from the plague of crickets .
Suddenly , from far off in the air toward the great salt lake , there was the sound of flapping wings .
It grew louder .
Some of the people looked up , startled .
They saw , like a white cloud rising from the lake , a flock of sea gulls flying toward them .
Snow - white in the sun , with great wings beating and soaring , in hundreds and hundreds , they rose and circled and came on .
" The gulls !
the gulls !"
was the cry .
" What does it mean ?"
The gulls flew overhead , with a shrill chorus of whimpering cries , and then , in a marvellous white cloud of outspread wings and hovering breasts , they settled down over the cultivated ground .
" Oh !
woe !
woe !"
cried the people .
" The gulls are eating what the crickets have left !
they will strip root and branch !"
But all at once , someone called out ,--
" No , no !
See !
they are eating the crickets !
They are eating only the crickets !"
It was true .
The gulls devoured the crickets in dozens , in hundreds , in swarms .
They ate until they were gorged , and then they flew heavily back to the lake , only to come again with new appetite .
And when at last they finished , they had stripped the fields of the army of crickets ; and the people were saved .
To this day , in the beautiful city of Salt Lake , which grew out of that pioneer village , the little children are taught to love the sea gulls .
And when they learn drawing and weaving in the schools , their first design is often a picture of a cricket and a gull .
THE NIGHTINGALE
A long , long time ago , as long ago as when there were fairies , there lived an emperor in China , who had a most beautiful palace , all made of crystal .
Outside the palace was the loveliest garden in the whole world , and farther away was a forest where the trees were taller than any other trees in the world , and farther away , still , was a deep wood .
And in this wood lived a little Nightingale .
The Nightingale sang so beautifully that everybody who heard her remembered her song better than anything else that he heard or saw .
People came from all over the world to see the crystal palace and the wonderful garden and the great forest ; but when they went home and wrote books about these things they always wrote , " But the Nightingale is the best of all ."
At last it happened that the Emperor came upon a book which said this , and he at once sent for his Chamberlain .
" Who is this Nightingale ?"
said the Emperor .
" Why have I never heard him sing ?"
The Chamberlain , who was a very important person , said , " There cannot be any such person ; I have never heard his name ."
" The book says there is a Nightingale ," said the Emperor .
" I command that the Nightingale be brought here to sing for me this evening ."
The Chamberlain went out and asked all the great lords and ladies and pages where the Nightingale could be found , but not one of them had ever heard of him .
So the Chamberlain went back to the Emperor and said , " There is no such person ."
" The book says there is a Nightingale ," said the Emperor ; " if the Nightingale is not here to sing for me this evening I will have the court trampled upon , immediately after supper ."
The Chamberlain did not want to be trampled upon , so he ran out and asked everybody in the palace about the Nightingale .
At last , a little girl who worked in the kitchen to help the cook , said , " Oh , yes , I know the Nightingale very well .
Every night , when I go to carry scraps from the kitchen to my mother , who lives in the wood beyond the forest , I hear the Nightingale sing ."
The Chamberlain asked the maid to take him to the Nightingale ' s home , and many of the lords and ladies followed after .
When they had gone a little way , they heard a cow moo .
" Ah !"
said the lords and ladies , " that must be the Nightingale ; what a large voice for so small a creature !"
" Oh , no ," said the little girl , " that is just a cow , mooing ."
A little farther on they heard some bullfrogs , in a swamp .
" Surely that is the Nightingale ," said the courtiers ; " it really sounds like church - bells !"
" Oh , no ," said the little girl , " those are bullfrogs , croaking ."
At last they came to the wood where the Nightingale was .
" Hush !"
said the little girl , " she is going to sing ."
And , sure enough , the little Nightingale began to sing .
She sang so beautifully that you have never in all your life heard anything like it .
" Dear , dear ," said the courtiers , " that is very pleasant ; does that little grey bird really make all that noise ?
She is so pale that I think she has lost her colour for fear of us ."
The Chamberlain asked the little Nightingale to come and sing for the Emperor .
The little Nightingale said she could sing better in her own greenwood , but she was so sweet and kind that she came with them .
That evening the palace was all trimmed with the most beautiful flowers you can imagine , and rows and rows of little silver bells , that tinkled when the wind blew in , and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of wax candles , that shone like tiny stars .
In the great hall there was a gold perch for the Nightingale , beside the Emperor ' s throne .
When all the people were there , the Emperor asked the Nightingale to sing .
Then the little grey Nightingale filled her throat full , and sang .
And , my dears , she sang so beautifully that the Emperor ' s eyes filled up with tears !
And , you know , emperors do not cry at all easily .
So he asked her to sing again , and this time she sang so marvellously that the tears came out of his eyes and ran down his cheeks .
That was a great success .
They asked the little Nightingale to sing , over and over again , and when they had listened enough the Emperor said that she should be made " Singer in Chief to the Court ."
She was to have a golden perch near the Emperor ' s bed , and a little golden cage , and was to be allowed to go out twice every day .
But there were twelve servants appointed to wait on her , and those twelve servants went with her every time she went out , and each of the twelve had hold of the end of a silken string which was tied to the little Nightingale ' s leg !
It was not so very much fun to go out that way !
For a long , long time the Nightingale sang every evening to the Emperor and his court , and they liked her so much that the ladies all tried to sing like her ; they used to put water in their mouths and then make little sounds like this : _glu - glu - glug_ .
And when the courtiers met each other in the halls , one would say " Night ," and the other would say " ingale ," and that was supposed to be conversation .
At last , one day , there came a little package to the Emperor , on the outside of which was written , " The Nightingale ."
Inside was an artificial bird , something like a Nightingale , only it was made of gold , and silver , and rubies , and emeralds , and diamonds .
When it was wound up it played a waltz tune , and as it played it moved its little tail up and down .
Everybody in the court was filled with delight at the music of the new nightingale .
They made it sing that same tune thirty - three times , and still they had not had enough .
They would have made it sing the tune thirty - four times , but the Emperor said , " I should like to hear the real Nightingale sing , now ."
But when they looked about for the real little Nightingale , they could not find her anywhere !
She had taken the chance , while everybody was listening to the waltz tunes , to fly away through the window to her own greenwood .
" What a very ungrateful bird !"
said the lords and ladies .
" But it does not matter ; the new nightingale is just as good ."
So the artificial nightingale was given the real Nightingale ' s little gold perch , and every night the Emperor wound her up , and she sang waltz tunes to him .
The people in the court liked her even better than the old Nightingale , because they could all whistle her tunes ,-- which you can ' t do with real nightingales .
About a year after the artificial nightingale came , the Emperor was listening to her waltz tune , when there was a _snap_ and _whir - r - r_ inside the bird , and the music stopped .
The Emperor ran to his doctor , but he could not do anything .
Then he ran to his clock - maker , but he could not do much .
Nobody could do much .
The best they could do was to patch the gold nightingale up so that it could sing once a year ; even that was almost too much , and the tune was very shaky .
Still , the Emperor kept the gold nightingale on the perch in his own room .
A long time went by , and then , at last , the Emperor grew very ill , and was about to die .
When it was sure that he could not live much longer , the people chose a new emperor and waited for the old one to die .
The poor Emperor lay , quite cold and pale , in his great big bed , with velvet curtains and tall candlesticks all about .
He was quite alone , for all the courtiers had gone to congratulate the new emperor , and all the servants had gone to talk it over .
When the Emperor woke up , he felt a terrible weight on his chest .
He opened his eyes , and there was Death , sitting on his heart .
Death had put on the Emperor ' s gold crown , and he had the gold sceptre in one hand , and the silken banner in the other ; and he looked at the Emperor with his great hollow eyes .
The room was full of shadows , and the shadows were full of faces .
Everywhere the Emperor looked , there were faces .
Some were very , very ugly , and some were sweet and lovely ; they were all the things the Emperor had done in his life , good and bad .
And as he looked at them they began to whisper .
They whispered , " _Do you remember this ? _ " " _Do you remember that ? _ " The Emperor remembered so much that he cried out loud , " Oh , bring the great drum !
Make music , so that I may not hear these dreadful whispers !"
But there was nobody there to bring the drum .
Then the Emperor cried , " You little gold nightingale , can you not sing something for me ?
I have given you gifts of gold and jewels , and kept you always by my side ; will you not help me now ?"
But there was nobody to wind the little gold nightingale up , and of course it could not sing .
The Emperor ' s heart grew colder and colder where Death crouched upon it , and the dreadful whispers grew louder and louder , and the Emperor ' s life was almost gone .
Suddenly , through the open window , there came a most lovely song .
It was so sweet and so loud that the whispers died quite away .
Presently the Emperor felt his heart grow warm , then he felt the blood flow through his limbs again ; he listened to the song until the tears ran down his cheeks ; he knew that it was the little real Nightingale who had flown away from him when the gold nightingale came .
Death was listening to the song , too ; and when it was done and the Emperor begged for more , Death , too , said , " Please sing again , little Nightingale !"
" Will you give me the Emperor ' s gold crown for a song ?"
said the little Nightingale .
" Yes ," said Death ; and the little Nightingale bought the Emperor ' s crown for a song .
" Oh , sing again , little Nightingale ," begged Death .
" Will you give me the Emperor ' s sceptre for another song ?"
said the little grey Nightingale .
" Yes ," said Death ; and the little Nightingale bought the Emperor ' s sceptre for another song .
Once more Death begged for a song , and this time the little Nightingale obtained the banner for her singing .
Then she sang one more song , so sweet and so sad that it made Death think of his garden in the churchyard , where he always liked best to be .
And he rose from the Emperor ' s heart and floated away through the window .
When Death was gone , the Emperor said to the little Nightingale , " Oh , dear little Nightingale , you have saved me from Death !
Do not leave me again .
Stay with me on this little gold perch , and sing to me always !"
" No , dear Emperor ," said the little Nightingale , " I sing best when I am free ; I cannot live in a palace .
But every night when you are quite alone , I will come and sit in the window and sing to you , and tell you everything that goes on in your kingdom : I will tell you where the poor people are who ought to be helped , and where the wicked people are who ought to be punished .
Only , dear Emperor , be sure that you never let anybody know that you have a little bird who tells you everything ."
After the little Nightingale had flown away , the Emperor felt so well and strong that he dressed himself in his royal robes and took his gold sceptre in his hand .
And when the courtiers came in to see if he were dead , there stood the Emperor with his sword in one hand and his sceptre in the other , and said , " Good - morning !"
MARGERY ' S GARDEN
There was once a little girl named Margery , who had always lived in the city .
The flat where her mother and father lived was at the top of a big building , and you couldn ' t see a great deal from the windows , except chimney - pots on other people ' s roofs .
Margery did not know much about trees and flowers , but she loved them dearly ; whenever it was a fine Sunday she used to go with her mother and father to the park and look at the lovely flower - beds .
They seemed always to be finished , though , and Margery was always wishing she could see them grow .
One spring , when Margery was nine , her father obtained a new situation and they removed to a little house with a nice big piece of ground a short distance outside the town where his new position was .
Margery was delighted .
And the very first thing she said , when her father told her about it , was , " Oh , may I have a garden ?
_May_ I have a garden ?"
Margery ' s mother was almost as eager for a garden as she was , and Margery ' s father said he expected to live on their vegetables all the rest of his life !
So it was soon agreed that the garden should be the first thing attended to .
Behind the cottage were apple trees , a plum tree , and two or three pear trees ; then came a stretch of rough grass , and then a stone wall , with a gate leading into the fields .
It was on the grass plot that the garden was to be .
A big piece was to be used for wheat and peas and beans , and a little piece at the end was to be given to Margery .
" What shall we have in it ?"
asked her mother .
" Flowers ," said Margery , with shining eyes ,--" blue , and white , and yellow , and pink ,-- every kind of flower !"
" Surely , flowers ," said her mother , " and shall we not have a little salad garden in the middle ?"
" What is a salad garden ?"
Margery asked .
" It is a garden where you have all the things that make nice salad ," said her mother , laughing , for Margery was fond of salads ; " you have lettuce , and endive , and mustard and cress , and parsley , and radishes , and beetroot , and young onions ."
" Oh !
how good it sounds !"
said Margery .
" I should love a salad garden ."
That very evening , Margery ' s father took pencil and paper , and drew out a plan for her garden ; first , they talked it all over , then he drew what they decided on ; it looked like the diagram on the next page .
" The outside strip is for flowers ," said Margery ' s father , " and next is a footpath , all the way round the beds ; that is to let you get at the flowers to weed and to pick ; there is a wider path through the middle , and the rest is for rows of salad vegetables ."
" Papa , it is glorious !"
said Margery .
Papa laughed .
" I hope you will still think it glorious when the weeding time comes ," he said , " for you know , you and mother have promised to take care of this garden , while I take care of the big one ."
" I wouldn ' t _not_ take care of it for anything !"
said Margery .
" I want to feel that it is my very own ."
[ Illustration ]
Her father kissed her , and said it was certainly her " very own ."
Two evenings after that , when Margery was called in from her first ramble in the fields , she found the postman at the door .
" Something for you , Margery ," said her mother , with the look she had when something nice was happening .
It was a box , quite a big box , with a label on it that said :--
MISS MARGERY BROWN , PRIMROSE COTTAGE , 21 NARCISSUS ROAD , COLCHESTER .
From Seeds and Plants Company , Reading .
Margery could hardly wait to open it .
It was filled with little packages , all with printed labels ; and in the packages , of course , were seeds .
It made Margery dance , just to read the names ,-- nasturtium , giant helianthus , canariensis , calendula , Canterbury bells : more names than I can tell you ; and other packages , bigger , that said , " Sweet Peas ," " French beans ," " Carrots ," " Wallflowers ," and such things !
Margery could almost smell the posies , she was so excited .
Only , she had seen so little of flowers that she did not know what all the names meant .
She did not know that a helianthus was a sunflower until her mother told her so , and she had never seen the dear , blue , bell - shaped flowers that always grow in old - fashioned gardens , and are called Canterbury bells .
She thought the calendula must be a strange , grand flower , by its name ; but her mother told her it was the gay , sturdy , everydayish little flower called a marigold .
There was a great deal for a little city girl to be surprised about , and it did seem as if morning was a long way off !
" Did you think you could plant them in the morning ?"
asked her mother .
" You know , dear , the ground has to be made ready first ; it takes a little time ,-- it may be several days before you can plant ."
That was another surprise .
Margery had thought she could begin to sow the seed right off .
But this was what had happened .
Early the next morning , a man came driving up to the cottage with two strong white horses ; in his wagon was a plough .
I suppose you have seen ploughs , but Margery never had , and she watched with great interest , while the man and her father took the plough from the cart and harnessed the horses to it .
It was a great , three - cornered piece of sharp steel , with long handles coming up from it , so that a man could hold it in place .
It looked like this :--
[ Illustration ]
" I brought a two - horse plough because it ' s virgin soil ," the man said .
Margery wondered what in the world he meant ; it had not been cultivated , of course , but what had that do with the kind of plough ?
" What does he mean , father ?"
she whispered , when she got a chance .
" He means that this land has not been ploughed before ; it will be hard to turn the soil , and one horse could not pull the plough ," said her father .
It took the man two hours to plough the little strip of land .
He drove the sharp end of the plough into the soil , and held it firmly so , while the horses drew it along in a straight line .
Margery found it fascinating to watch the long line of dark earth and green grass come rolling up and turn over , as the knife passed it .
She could see that it took real skill and strength to keep the line even , and to avoid the stones .
Sometimes the plough struck a hidden stone , and then the man was jerked almost off his feet .
But he only laughed , and said , " Tough piece of land ; it will be a lot better next year ."
When he had ploughed , the man went back to his cart and unloaded another farm implement .
This one was like a three - cornered platform of wood , with a long , curved , strong rake under it .
It was called a harrow , and it looked like the diagram on the next page .
The man harnessed the horses to it , and then he stood on the platform and drove all over the strip of land .
It was fun to watch , but perhaps it was a little hard to do .
The man ' s weight kept the harrow steady , and let the teeth of the rake scratch and cut the ground up , so that it did not stay in ridges .
" He scrambles the ground , father !"
said Margery .
" It needs ' scrambling ,'" laughed her father .
" We are going to get more weeds than we want on this fresh soil , and the more the ground is broken , the fewer there will be ."
[ Illustration ]
After the ploughing and harrowing , the man drove off , and Margery ' s father said that he himself would do the rest of the work in the late afternoons , when he came home from business ; they could not afford too much help , he said , and he had learned to take care of a garden when he was a boy .
So Margery did not see any more done until the next day .
But the next day there was hard work for Margery ' s father !
Every bit of that ground had to be broken up still more with a spade , and then the clods which were full of grass - roots had to be taken on a fork and shaken , till the earth fell out ; when the grass was thrown to one side .
That would not have had to be done if the land had been ploughed in the autumn ; the grass would have rotted in the ground , and would have made food for the plants .
Now , Margery ' s father put the fertiliser on the top , and then raked it into the earth .
At last , it was time to make the place for the seeds .
Margery and her mother helped .
Father tied one end of a cord to a little stake , and drove the stake in the ground at one end of the garden .
Then he took the cord to the other end of the garden and pulled it tight , tied it to another stake , and drove that down .
That made a straight line .
Then he hoed a trench , a few inches deep , the whole length of the cord , and scattered fertiliser in it .
Pretty soon the whole garden was lined with little trenches .
" Now for the seed ," said father .
Margery ran and brought the seed box .
" May I help ?"
she asked .
" If you watch me sow one row , I think you can do the next ," said her father .
So Margery watched .
Her father took a handful of peas , and , stooping , walked slowly along the line , letting the seed trickle through his fingers .
It was pretty to watch ; it made Margery think of a photograph her teacher had , a photograph of a famous picture called " The Sower ."
Perhaps you have seen it .
Putting in the seed was not so easy to do as to watch ; sometimes Margery dropped in too much , and sometimes not enough ; but her father was patient with her , and soon she did better .
They planted peas , beans , spinach , carrots , and parsnips .
And Margery ' s father made a row of holes , after that , for the tomato plants .
He said those had to be transplanted ; they could not be sown from seed .
When the seeds were in the trenches they had to be covered up , and Margery really helped at that .
It is fun to do it .
You stand beside the little trench and walk backward , and as you walk you hoe the loose earth back over the seeds ; the same earth that was hoed up you pull back again .
Then you rake very gently over the surface , with the back of a rake , to even it all off .
Margery liked it , because now the garden began to look _like_ a garden .
But best of all was the work next day , when her own little particular garden was begun .
Father Brown loved Margery and Margery ' s mother so much that he wanted their garden to be perfect , and that meant a great deal more work .
He knew very well that the old grass would begin to come through again on such soil , and that it would make terribly hard weeding .
He was not going to have any such thing for his two " little girls ," as he called them .
So he gave that little garden particular attention .
This is what he did .
After he had thrown out all the turf , he shovelled clean earth on to the garden ,-- as much as three solid inches of it ; not a bit of grass was in that .
Then it was ready for raking and fertilising , and for the lines .
The little footpaths were marked out by Father Brown ' s feet ; Margery and her mother laughed well at his actions , for it looked like some kind of dance .
Mr Brown had seen gardeners do it when he was a little boy , and he did it very nicely : he walked along the sides of the square , with one foot turned a little out , and the other straight , taking such tiny steps that his feet touched each other all the time .
This tramped out a path just wide enough for a person to walk .
The wider path was marked with lines and raked .
Margery thought , of course , all the flowers would be put in as the vegetables were ; but she found that it was not so .
For some , her father poked little holes with his finger ; for some , he made very shallow trenches ; and some very small seeds were scattered lightly over the top of the ground .
Margery and her mother had taken so much pains in thinking out the arrangement of the flowers , that perhaps you will like to hear just how they designed that garden .
At the back were the sweet peas , which would grow tall , like a screen ; on the two sides , for a kind of hedge , were yellow sunflowers ; and along the front edge were the gay nasturtiums .
Margery planned that , so that she could look into the garden from the front , but have it shut away from the vegetable patch by the tall flowers on the sides .
The two front corners had canariensis in them .
Canariensis is a pretty creeper with golden blossoms , very dainty and bright .
And then , in little square patches all round the garden , were planted London pride , blue bachelor ' s buttons , yellow marigolds , tall larkspur , many - coloured asters , hollyhocks and stocks .
All these lovely flowers used to grow in our grandmothers ' gardens , and if you don ' t know what they look like , I hope you can find out next summer .
Between the flowers and the middle path went the seeds for that wonderful salad garden ; all the things Mrs Brown had named to Margery were there .
Margery had never seen anything more wonderful than the little round lettuce - seeds .
They were so tiny that it did not seem possible that green lettuce leaves could come from them .
But they surely would .
Mother and father and Margery were late to supper that evening .
But they were all so happy that it did not matter .
The last thing Margery thought of , as she went to sleep at night , was the dear , smooth little garden , with its funny footpath , and with the little sticks standing at the ends of the rows , labelled " lettuce ," " beets ," " helianthus ," and so on .
" I have a garden !
I have a garden !"
was Margery ' s last thought as she went off to dreamland .
THE LITTLE COTYLEDONS
This is another story about Margery ' s garden .
The next morning after the garden was planted , Margery was up and out at six o ' clock .
She could not wait to look at her garden .
To be sure , she knew that the seeds could not sprout in a single night , but she had a feeling that _something_ might happen at any moment .
The garden was just as smooth and brown as the night before , and no little seedlings were in sight .
But a very few mornings after that , when Margery went out , she saw a funny little crack opening up through the earth , the whole length of the patch .
Quickly she knelt down on the footpath , to see .
Yes !
Tiny green leaves , a whole row of them , were pushing their way through the crust !
Margery knew what she had put there : it was the radish - row ; these must be radish leaves .
She examined them very closely , so that she might know a radish next time .
The little leaves , no bigger than half your little - finger nail , grew in twos ,-- two on each tiny stem ; they were almost round .
Margery flew back to her mother , to say that the first seeds were up .
And her mother , nearly as excited as Margery , came to look at the little crack .
Each day , after that , the row of radishes grew , till , in a week , it stood as high as your finger , green and sturdy .
But about the third day , while Margery was stooping over the radishes , she saw something very , very small and green , peeping above ground , where the lettuce was planted .
Could it be weeds ?
No , for on looking very closely she saw that the wee leaves faintly marked a regular row .
They did not make a crack , like the radishes ; they seemed too small and too far apart to push the earth up like that .
Margery leaned down and looked with all her eyes at the baby plants .
The tiny leaves grew two on a stem , and were almost round .
The more she looked at them the more it seemed to Margery that they looked exactly as the radish looked when it first came up .
" Do you suppose ," Margery said to herself , " that lettuce and radish look alike while they are growing ?
They don ' t look alike when they are on the table !"
Day by day the lettuce grew , and soon the little round leaves were easier to examine ; they certainly were very much like radish leaves .
Then , one morning , while she was searching for signs of other seeds , Margery discovered the beets .
In irregular patches on the row , hints of green were coming .
The next day and the next they grew , until the beet leaves were big enough to see .
Margery looked .
Then she looked again .
Then she wrinkled her forehead .
" Can we have made a mistake ?"
she thought .
" Do you suppose we can have planted _all_ radishes ?"
For those little beet leaves were almost round , and they grew two on a stem , precisely like the lettuce and the radish ; except for the size , all three rows looked alike .
It was too much for Margery .
She ran to the house and found her father .
Her little face was so anxious that he thought something unpleasant had happened .
" Papa ," she said , all out of breath , " do you think we could have made a mistake about my garden ?
Do you think we could have put radishes in all the rows ?"
Father laughed .
" What makes you think such a thing ?"
he asked .
" Papa ," said Margery , " the little leaves all look exactly alike !
every plant has just two tiny leaves on it , and shaped the same ; they are roundish , and grow out of the stem at the same place ."
Papa ' s eyes began to twinkle .
" Many of the dicotyledonous plants look alike at the beginning ," he said , with a little drawl on the big word .
That was to tease Margery , because she always wanted to know the big words she heard .
" What ' s ' dicotyledonous '?"
said Margery , carefully .
" Wait till I come home to - night , dear ," said her father , " and I ' ll tell you ."
That evening Margery was waiting eagerly for him .
When her father finished his supper they went together to the garden , and father examined the seedlings carefully .
Then he pulled up a little radish plant and a tiny beet .
" These little leaves ," he said , " are not the real leaves of the plant ; they are only little pockets to hold food for the plant to live on till it gets strong enough to push up into the air .
As soon as the real leaves come out and begin to draw food from the air , these little substitutes wither up and fall off .
These two lie folded up in the little seed from the beginning , and are full of plant food .
They don ' t have to be very special in shape , you see , because they don ' t stay on the plant after it is grown up ."
" Then every plant looks like this at first ?"
said Margery .
" No , dear , not every one ; plants are divided into two kinds : those which have two food leaves , like these plants , and those which have only one ; these are called dicotyledonous , and the ones which have but one food leaf are monocotyledonous .
Many of the dicotyledons look alike ."
" I think that is interesting ," said Margery .
" I always , supposed the plants were different from the minute they began to grow ."
" Indeed , no ," said father .
" Even some of the trees look like this when they first come through ; you would not think a birch tree could look like a vegetable or a flower , would you ?
But it does , at first ; it looks so much like these things that in the great nurseries , where trees are raised for forests and parks , the workmen have to be very carefully trained , or else they would pull up the trees when they are weeding .
They have to be taught the difference between a birch tree and a weed ."
" How funny !"
said Margery , dimpling .
" Yes , it sounds funny ," said father ; " but , you see , the birch tree is dicotyledonous , and so are many weeds , and the dicotyledons look so much alike at first ."
" I am glad to know that , father ," said Margery , soberly .
" I believe I shall learn a good deal from living in the country ; don ' t you think so ?"
Margery ' s father took her in his arms .
" I hope so , dear ," he said ; " the country is a good place for little girls ."
And that was all that happened , that day .
THE TALKATIVE TORTOISE
Once upon a time , a Tortoise lived in a pond with two Ducks , who were her very good friends .
She enjoyed the company of the Ducks , because she could talk with them to her heart ' s content ; the Tortoise liked to talk .
She always had something to say , and she liked to hear herself say it .
After many years of this pleasant living , the pond became very low , in a dry season ; and finally it dried up .
The two Ducks saw that they could no longer live there , so they decided to fly to another region , where there was more water .
They went to the Tortoise to bid her good - bye .
" Oh , don ' t leave me behind !"
begged the Tortoise .
" Take me with you ; I must die if I am left here ."
" But you cannot fly !"
said the Ducks .
" How can we take you with us ?"
" Take me with you !
take me with you !"
said the Tortoise .
The Ducks felt so sorry for her that at last they thought of a way to take her .
" We have thought of a way which will be possible ," they said , " if only you can manage to keep still long enough .
We will each take hold of one end of a stout stick , and do you take the middle in your mouth ; then we will fly up in the air with you and carry you with us .
But remember not to talk !
If you open your mouth , you are lost ."
The Tortoise said she would not say a word ; she would not so much as move her mouth ; and she was very grateful .
So the Ducks brought a strong little stick and took hold of the ends , while the Tortoise bit firmly on the middle .
Then the two Ducks rose slowly in the air and flew away with their burden .
When they were above the treetops , the Tortoise wanted to say , " How high we are !"
But she remembered , and kept still .
When they passed the church steeple she wanted to say , " What is that which shines ?"
But she remembered , and held her peace .
Then they came over the village square , and the people looked up and saw them .
" Look at the Ducks carrying a Tortoise !"
they shouted ; and every one ran to look .
The Tortoise wanted to say , " What business is it of yours ?"
But she didn ' t .
Then she heard the people shout , " Isn ' t it strange !
Look at it !
Look !"
The Tortoise forgot everything except that she wanted to say , " Hush , you foolish people !"
She opened her mouth ,-- and fell to the ground .
And that was the end of the Tortoise .
It is a very good thing to be able to hold one ' s tongue !
ROBERT OF SICILY
An old legend says that there was once a king named Robert of Sicily , who was brother to the Great Pope of Rome and to the Emperor of Allemaine .
He was a very selfish king , and very proud ; he cared more for his pleasures than for the needs of his people , and his heart was so filled with his own greatness that he had no thought for God .
One day , this proud king was sitting in his place at church , at vesper service ; his courtiers were about him , in their bright garments , and he himself was dressed in his royal robes .
The choir was chanting the Latin service , and as the beautiful voices swelled louder , the king noticed one particular verse which seemed to be repeated again and again .
He turned to a learned clerk at his side and asked what those words meant , for he knew no Latin .
" They mean , ' He hath put down the mighty from their seats , and hath exalted them of low degree ,'" answered the clerk .
" It is well the words are in Latin , then ," said the king angrily , " for they are a lie .
There is no power on earth or in heaven which can put me down from my seat !"
and he sneered at the beautiful singing , as he leaned back in his place .
Presently the king fell asleep , while the service went on .
He slept deeply and long .
When he awoke the church was dark and still , and he was all alone .
He , the king , had been left alone in the church , to awake in the dark !
He was furious with rage and surprise , and , stumbling through the dim aisles , he reached the great doors and beat at them , madly , shouting for his servants .
The old sexton heard some one shouting and pounding in the church , and thought it was some drunken vagabond who had stolen in during the service .
He came to the door with his keys and called out , " Who is there ?"
" Open !
open !
It is I , the king !"
came a hoarse , angry voice from within .
" It is a crazy man ," thought the sexton ; and he was frightened .
He opened the doors carefully and stood back , peering into the darkness .
Out past him rushed the figure of a man in tattered , scanty clothes , with unkempt hair and white , wild face .
The sexton did not know that he had ever seen him before , but he looked long after him , wondering at his wildness and his haste .
In his fluttering rags , without hat or cloak , not knowing what strange thing had happened to him , King Robert rushed to his palace gates , pushed aside the startled servants , and hurried , blind with rage , up the wide stair and through the great corridors , toward the room where he could hear the sound of his courtiers ' voices .
Men and women servants tried to stop the ragged man , who had somehow got into the palace , but Robert did not even see them as he fled along .
Straight to the open doors of the big banquet hall he made his way , and into the midst of the grand feast there .
The great hall was filled with lights and flowers ; the tables were set with everything that is delicate and rich to eat ; the courtiers , in their gay clothes , were laughing and talking ; and at the head of the feast , on the king ' s own throne , sat a king .
His face , his figure , his voice were exactly like Robert of Sicily ; no human being could have told the difference ; no one dreamed that he was not the king .
He was dressed in the king ' s royal robes , he wore the royal crown , and on his hand was the king ' s own ring .
Robert of Sicily , half naked , ragged , without a sign of his kingship on him , stood before the throne and stared with fury at this figure of himself .
The king on the throne looked at him .
" Who art thou , and what dost thou here ?"
he asked .
And though his voice was just like Robert ' s own , it had something in it sweet and deep , like the sound of bells .
" I am the king !"
cried Robert of Sicily .
" I am the king , and you are an impostor !"
The courtiers started from their seats , and drew their swords .
They would have killed the crazy man who insulted their king ; but he raised his hand and stopped them , and with his eyes looking into Robert ' s eyes he said , " Not the king ; you shall be the king ' s jester !
You shall wear the cap and bells , and make laughter for my court .
You shall be the servant of the servants , and your companion shall , be the jester ' s ape ."
With shouts of laughter , the courtiers drove Robert of Sicily from the banquet hall ; the waiting - men , with laughter , too , pushed him into the soldiers ' hall ; and there the pages brought the jester ' s wretched ape , and put a fool ' s cap and bells on Robert ' s head .
It was like a terrible dream ; he could not believe it true , he could not understand what had happened to him .
And when he woke next morning , he believed it was a dream , and that he was king again .
But as he turned his head , he felt the coarse straw under his cheek instead of the soft pillow , and he saw that he was in the stable , with the shivering ape by his side .
Robert of Sicily was a jester , and no one knew him for the king .
Three long years passed .
Sicily was happy and all things went well under the king , who was not Robert .
Robert was still the jester , and his heart grew harder and more bitter with every year .
Many times , during the three years , the king , who had his face and voice , had called him to himself , when none else could hear , and had asked him the one question , " Who art thou ?"
And each time that he asked it his eyes looked into Robert ' s eyes , to find his heart .
But each time Robert threw back his head and answered , proudly , " I am the king !"
And the other king ' s eyes grew sad and stern .
At the end of three years , the Pope called the Emperor of Allemaine and the King of Sicily , his brothers , to a great meeting in his city of Rome .
The King of Sicily went , with all his soldiers and courtiers and servants ,-- a great procession of horsemen and footmen .
Never had there been seen a finer sight than the grand train , men in bright armour , riders in wonderful cloaks of velvet and silk , servants , carrying marvellous presents to the Pope .
And at the very end rode Robert , the jester .
His horse was poor and old , many - coloured , and the ape rode with him .
Every one in the villages through which they passed ran after the jester , and pointed and laughed .
The Pope received his brothers and their trains in the square before Saint Peter ' s .
With music and flags and flowers he made the King of Sicily welcome , and greeted him as his brother .
In the midst of it , the jester broke through the crowd and threw himself before the Pope .
" Look at me !"
he cried ; " I am your brother , Robert of Sicily !
This man is an impostor , who has stolen my throne .
I am Robert , the king !"
The Pope looked at the poor jester with pity , but the Emperor of Allemaine turned to the King of Sicily , and said , " Is it not rather dangerous , brother , to keep a madman as jester ?"
And again Robert was pushed back among the serving - men .
It was Holy Week , and the king and the emperor , with all their trains , went every day to the great services in the cathedral .
Something wonderful and holy seemed to make these services more beautiful than ever before .
All the people of Rome felt it : it was as if the presence of an angel were there .
Men thought of God , and felt His blessing on them .
But no one knew who it was that brought the beautiful feeling .
And when Easter Day came , never had there been so lovely , so holy a day : in the great churches , filled with flowers , and sweet with incense , the kneeling people listened to the choirs singing , and it was like the voices of angels ; their prayers were more earnest than ever before , their praise more glad ; there was something heavenly in Rome .
Robert of Sicily went to the services with the rest , and sat in the humblest place with the servants .
Over and over again he heard the sweet voices of the choirs chant the Latin words he had heard long ago : _He hath put down the mighty from their seat , and hath exalted them of low degree_ .
And at last , as he listened , his heart was softened .
He , too , felt the strange blessed presence of a heavenly power .
He thought of God , and of his own wickedness ; he remembered how selfish he had been , and how little good he had done ; he realised , that his power had not been from himself , at all .
On Easter night , as he crept to his bed of straw , he wept , not because he was so wretched , but because he had not been a better king when power was his .
At last all the festivities were over , and the King of Sicily went home to his own land again , with his people .
Robert the jester came home too .
On the day of their home - coming , there was a special service in the royal church , and even after the service was over for the people , the monks held prayers of thanksgiving and praise .
The sound of their singing came softly in at the palace windows .
In the great banquet room , the king sat , wearing his royal robes and his crown , while many subjects came to greet him .
At last , he sent them all away , saying he wanted to be alone ; but he commanded the jester to stay .
And when they were alone together the king looked into Robert ' s eyes , as he had done before , and said , softly , " Who art thou ?"
Robert of Sicily bowed his head .
" Thou knowest best ," he said , " I only know that I have sinned ."
As he spoke , he heard the voices of the monks singing , _He hath put down the mighty from their seat_ ,-- and his head sank lower .
But suddenly the music seemed to change ; a wonderful light shone all about .
As Robert raised his eyes , he saw the face of the king smiling at him with a radiance like nothing on earth , and as he sank to his knees before the glory of that smile , a voice sounded with the music , like a melody throbbing on a single string ,--
" I am an angel , and thou art the king !"
Then Robert of Sicily was alone .
His royal robes were upon him once more ; he wore his crown and his royal ring .
He was king .
And when the courtiers came back they found their king kneeling by his throne , absorbed in silent prayer .
THE JEALOUS COURTIERS
I wonder if you have ever heard the anecdote about the artist of Duesseldorf and the jealous courtiers .
This is it .
It seems there was once a very famous artist who lived in the little town of Duesseldorf .
He did such fine work that the Elector , Prince Johann Wilhelm , ordered a portrait statue of himself , on horseback , to be done in bronze .
The artist was overjoyed at the commission , and worked early and late at the statue .
At last the work was done , and the artist had the great statue set up in the public square of Duesseldorf , ready for the opening view .
The Elector came on the appointed day , and with him came his favourite courtiers from the castle .
Then the statue was unveiled .
It was very beautiful ,-- so beautiful that the prince exclaimed in surprise .
He could not look enough , and presently he turned to the artist and shook hands with him , like an old friend .
" Herr Grupello ," he said , " you are a great artist , and this statue will make your fame even greater than it is ; the portrait of me is perfect !"
When the courtiers heard this , and saw the friendly hand - shake , their jealousy of the artist was beyond bounds .
Their one thought was , how could they safely do something to humiliate him .
They dared not pick flaws in the portrait statue , for the prince had declared it perfect .
But at last one of them said , with an air of great frankness , " Indeed , Herr Grupello , the portrait of his Royal Highness is perfect ; but permit me to say that the statue of the horse is not quite so successful : the head is too large ; it is out of proportion ."
" No ," said another , " the horse is really not so successful ; the turn of the neck , there , is awkward ."
" If you would change the right hind - foot , Herr Grupello ," said a third , " it would be an improvement ."
Still another found fault with the horse ' s tail .
The artist listened , quietly .
When they had all finished , he turned to the prince and said , " Your courtiers , prince , find a good many flaws in the statue of the horse ; will you permit me to keep it a few days more , to do what I can with it ?"
The Elector assented , and the artist ordered a temporary screen to be built around the statue , so that his assistants could work undisturbed .
For several days the sound of hammering came steadily from behind the enclosure .
The courtiers , who took care to pass that way , often , were delighted .
Each one said to himself , " I must have been right , really ; the artist himself sees that something was wrong ; now I shall have credit for saving the prince ' s portrait by my artistic taste !"
Once more the artist summoned the prince and his courtiers , and once more the statue was unveiled .
Again the Elector exclaimed at its beauty , and then he turned to his courtiers , one after another , to see what they had to say .
" Perfect !"
said the first .
" Now that the horse ' s head is in proportion , there is not a flaw ."
" The change in the neck was just what was needed ," said the second ; " it is very graceful now ."
" The rear right foot is as it should be , now ," said a third , " and it adds so much to the beauty of the whole !"
The fourth said that he considered the tail greatly improved .
" My courtiers are much pleased now ," said the prince to Herr Grupello ; " they think the statue much improved by the changes you have made ."
Herr Grupello smiled a little .
" I am glad they are pleased ," he said , " but the fact is , I have changed nothing !"
" What do you mean ?"
said the prince in surprise .
" Have we not heard the sound of hammering every day ?
What were you hammering at then ?"
" I was hammering at the reputation of your courtiers , who found fault simply because they were jealous ," said the artist .
" And I rather think that their reputation is pretty well hammered to pieces !"
It was , indeed .
The Elector laughed heartily , but the courtiers slunk away , one after another , without a word .
PRINCE CHERRY
There was once an old king , so wise and kind and true that the most powerful good fairy of his land visited him and asked him to name the dearest wish of his heart , that she might grant it .
" Surely you know it ," said the good king ; " it is for my only son , Prince Cherry ; do for him whatever you would have done for me ."
" Gladly ," said the great fairy ; " choose what I shall give him .
I can make him the richest , the most beautiful , or the most powerful prince in the world ; choose ."
" None of those things are what I want ," said the king .
" I want only that he shall be good .
Of what use will it be to him to be beautiful , rich , or powerful , if he grows into a bad man ?
Make him the best prince in the world , I beg you !"
" Alas , I cannot make him good ," said the fairy ; " he must do that for himself .
I can give him good advice , reprove him when he does wrong , and punish him if he will not punish himself ; I can and will be his best friend , but I cannot make him good unless he wills it ."
The king was sad to hear this , but he rejoiced in the friendship of the fairy for his son .
And when he died , soon after , he was happy to know that he left Prince Cherry in her hands .
Prince Cherry grieved for his father , and often lay awake at night , thinking of him .
One night , when he was all alone in his room , a soft and lovely light suddenly shone before him , and a beautiful vision stood at his side .
It was the good fairy .
She was clad in robes of dazzling white , and on her shining hair she wore a wreath of white roses .
" I am the Fairy Candide ," she said to the prince .
" I promised your father that I would be your best friend , and as long as you live I shall watch over your happiness .
I have brought you a gift ; it is not wonderful to look at , but it has a wonderful power for your welfare ; wear it , and let it help you ."
As she spoke , she placed a small gold ring on the prince ' s little finger .
" This ring ," she said , " will help you to be good ; when you do evil , it will prick you , to remind you .
If you do not heed its warnings a worse thing will happen to you , for I shall become your enemy ."
Then she vanished .
Prince Cherry wore his ring , and said nothing to anyone of the fairy ' s gift .
It did not prick him for a long time , because he was good and merry and happy .
But Prince Cherry had been rather spoiled by his nurse when he was a child ; she had always said to him that when he should become king he could do exactly as he pleased .
Now , after a while , he began to find out that this was not true , and it made him angry .
The first time that he noticed that even a king could not always have his own way was on a day when he went hunting .
It happened that he got no game .
This put him in such a bad temper that he grumbled and scolded all the way home .
The little gold ring began to feel tight and uncomfortable .
When he reached the palace his pet dog ran to meet him .
" Go away !"
said the prince , crossly .
But the little dog was so used to being petted that he only jumped up on his master , and tried to kiss his hand .
The prince turned and kicked the little creature .
At the instant , he felt a sharp prick in his little finger , like a pin prick .
" What nonsense !"
said the prince to himself .
" Am I not king of the whole land ?
May I not kick my own dog , if I choose ?
What evil is there in that ?"
A silver voice spoke in his ear : " The king of the land has a right to do good , but not evil ; you have been guilty of bad temper and of cruelty to - day ; see that you do better to - morrow ."
The prince turned sharply , but no one was to be seen ; yet he recognised the voice as that of Fairy Candide .
He followed her advice for a little , but presently he forgot , and the ring pricked him so sharply that his finger had a drop of blood on it .
This happened again and again , for the prince grew more self - willed and headstrong every day ; he had some bad friends , too , who urged him on , in the hope that he would ruin himself and give them a chance to seize the throne .
He treated his people carelessly and his servants cruelly , and everything he wanted he felt that he must have .
The ring annoyed him terribly ; it was embarrassing for a king to have a drop of blood on his finger all the time !
At last he took the ring off and put it out of sight .
Then he thought he should be perfectly happy , having his own way ; but instead , he grew more unhappy as he grew less good .
Whenever he was crossed , or could not have his own way instantly , he flew into a passion .
Finally , he wanted something that he really could not have .
This time it was a most beautiful young girl , named Zelia ; the prince saw her , and loved her so much that he wanted at once to make her his queen .
To his great astonishment , she refused .
" Am I not pleasing to you ?"
asked the prince in surprise .
" You are very handsome , very charming , prince ," said Zelia ; " but you are not like the good king , your father ; I fear you would make me very miserable if I were your queen ."
In a great rage , Prince Cherry ordered the young girl to be put in prison ; and the key of her dungeon he kept .
He told one of his friends , a wicked man who flattered him for his own purposes , about the thing , and asked his advice .
" Are you not king ?"
said the bad friend .
" May you not do as you will ?
Keep the girl in a dungeon till she does as you command , and if she will not , sell her as a slave ."
" But would it not be a disgrace for me to harm an innocent creature ?"
said the prince .
" It would be a disgrace to you to have it said that one of your subjects dared disobey you !"
said the courtier .
He had cleverly touched the prince ' s worst trait , his pride .
Prince Cherry went at once to Zelia ' s dungeon , prepared to do this cruel thing .
Zelia was gone .
No one had the key save the prince himself ; yet she was gone .
The only person who could have dared to help her , thought the prince , was his old tutor , Suliman , the only man left who ever rebuked him for anything .
In fury , he ordered Suliman to be put in fetters and brought before him .
As his servants left him , to carry out the wicked order , there was a clash , as of thunder , in the room , and then a blinding light .
Fairy Candide stood before him .
Her beautiful face was stern , and her silver voice rang like a trumpet , as she said , " Wicked and selfish prince , you have become baser than the beasts you hunt ; you are furious as a lion , revengeful as a serpent , greedy as a wolf , and brutal as a bull ; take , therefore , the shape of those beasts whom you resemble !"
With horror , the prince felt himself being transformed into a monster .
He tried to rush upon the fairy and kill her , but she had vanished with her words .
As he stood , her voice came from the air , saying , sadly , " Learn to conquer your pride by being in submission to your own subjects ."
At the same moment , Prince Cherry felt himself being transported to a distant forest , where he was set down by a clear stream .
In the water he saw his own terrible image ; he had the head of a lion , with bull ' s horns , the feet of a wolf , and a tail like a serpent .
And as he gazed in horror , the fairy ' s voice whispered , " Your soul has become more ugly than your shape is ; you yourself have deformed it ."
The poor beast rushed away from the sound of her words , but in a moment he stumbled into a trap , set by bear - catchers .
When the trappers found him they were delighted to have caught a curiosity , and they immediately dragged him to the palace courtyard .
There he heard the whole court buzzing with gossip .
Prince Cherry had been struck by lightning and killed , was the news , and the five favourite courtiers had struggled to make themselves rulers , but the people had refused them , and offered the crown to Suliman , the good old tutor .
Even as he heard this , the prince saw Suliman on the steps of the palace , speaking to the people .
" I will take the crown to keep in trust ," he said .
" Perhaps the prince is not dead ."
" He was a bad king ; we do not want him back ," said the people .
" I know his heart ," said Suliman , " it is not all bad ; it is tainted , but not corrupt ; perhaps he will repent and come back to us a good king ."
When the beast heard this , it touched him so much that he stopped tearing at his chains , and became gentle .
He let his keepers lead him away to the royal menagerie without hurting them .
Life was very terrible to the prince , now , but he began to see that he had brought all his sorrow on himself , and he tried to bear it patiently .
The worst to bear was the cruelty of the keeper .
At last , one night , this keeper was in great danger ; a tiger got loose , and attacked him .
" Good enough !
Let him die !"
thought Prince Cherry .
But when he saw how helpless the keeper was , he repented , and sprang to help .
He killed the tiger and saved the keeper ' s life .
As he crouched at the keeper ' s feet , a voice said , " Good actions never go unrewarded !"
And the terrible monster was changed into a pretty little white dog .
The keeper carried the beautiful little dog to the court and told the story , and from then on , Cherry was carefully treated , and had the best of everything .
But in order to keep the little dog from growing , the queen ordered that he should be fed very little , and that was pretty hard for the poor prince .
He was often half starved , although so much petted .
One day he had carried his crust of bread to a retired spot in the palace woods , where he loved to be , when he saw a poor old woman hunting for roots , and seeming almost starved .
" Poor thing ," he thought , " she is even more hungry than I "; and he ran up and dropped the crust at her feet .
The woman ate it , and seemed greatly refreshed .
Cherry was glad of that , and he was running happily back to his kennel when he heard cries of distress , and suddenly he saw some rough men dragging along a young girl , who was weeping and crying for help .
What was his horror to see that the young girl was Zelia !
Oh , how he wished he were the monster once more , so that he could kill the men and rescue her !
But he could do nothing except bark , and bite at the heels of the wicked men .
That did not stop them ; they drove him off , with blows , and carried Zelia into a palace in the wood .
Poor Cherry crouched by the steps , and watched .
His heart was full of pity and rage .
But suddenly he thought , " I was as bad as these men ; I myself put Zelia in prison , and would have treated her worse still , if I had not been prevented ."
The thought made him so sorry and ashamed that he repented bitterly the evil he had done .
Presently a window opened , and Cherry saw Zelia lean out and throw down a piece of meat .
He seized it and was just going to devour it , when the old woman to whom he had given his crust snatched it away and took him in her arms .
" No , you shall not eat it , you poor little thing ," she said , " for every bit of food in that house is poisoned ."
At the same moment , a voice said , " Good actions never go unrewarded !"
And instantly Prince Cherry was transformed into a little white dove .
With great joy , he flew to the open palace window to seek out his Zelia , to try to help her .
But though he hunted in every room , no Zelia was to be found .
He had to fly away , without seeing her .
He wanted more than anything else to find her , and stay near her , so he flew out into the world , to seek her .
He sought her in many lands , until one day , in a far eastern country , he found her sitting in a tent , by the side of an old , white - haired hermit .
Cherry was wild with delight .
He flew to her shoulder , caressed her hair with his beak , and cooed in her ear .
" You dear , lovely little thing !"
said Zelia .
" Will you stay with me ?
If you will , I will love you always ."
" Ah , Zelia , see what you have done !"
laughed the hermit .
At that instant , the white dove vanished , and Prince Cherry stood there , as handsome and charming as ever , and with a look of kindness and modesty in his eyes which had never been there before .
At the same time , the hermit stood up , his flowing hair changed to shining gold , and his face became a lovely woman ' s face ; it was the Fairy Candide .
" Zelia has broken your spell ," she said to the prince , " as I meant she should , when you were worthy of her love ."
Zelia and Prince Cherry fell at the fairy ' s feet .
But with a beautiful smile she bade them come to their kingdom .
In a trice , they were transported to the prince ' s palace , where King Suliman greeted them with tears of joy .
He gave back the throne with all his heart , and King Cherry ruled again , with Zelia for his queen .
He wore the little gold ring all the rest of his life , but never once did it have to prick him hard enough to make his finger bleed .
THE GOLD IN THE ORCHARD
There was once a farmer who had a fine olive orchard .
He was very industrious , and the farm always prospered under his care .
But he knew that his three sons despised the farm work , and were eager to make wealth fast , through adventure .
When the farmer was old , and felt that his time had come to die , he called the three sons to him and said , " My sons , there is a pot of gold hidden in the olive orchard .
Dig for it , if you wish it ."
The sons tried to get him to tell them in what part of the orchard the gold was hidden ; but he would tell them nothing more .
After the farmer was dead , the sons went to work to find the pot of gold ; since they did not know where the hiding - place was , they agreed to begin in a line , at one end of the orchard , and to dig until one of them should find the money .
They dug until they had turned up the soil from one end of the orchard to the other , round the tree - roots and between them .
But no pot of gold was to be found .
It seemed as if some one must have stolen it , or as if the farmer had been wandering in his wits .
The three sons were bitterly disappointed to have all their work for nothing .
The next olive season , the olive trees in the orchard bore more fruit than they had ever given before ; the fine cultivating they had had from the digging brought so much fruit , and of so fine a quality , that when it was sold it gave the sons a whole pot of gold !
And when they saw how much money had come from the orchard , they suddenly understood what the wise father had meant when he said , " There is gold hidden in the orchard ; dig for it ."
MARGARET OF NEW ORLEANS
If you ever go to the beautiful city of New Orleans , somebody will be sure to take you down into the old business part of the city , where there are banks and shops and hotels , and show you a statue which stands in a little square there .
It is the statue of a woman , sitting in a low chair , with her arms around a child , who leans against her .
The woman is not at all pretty : she wears thick , common shoes , a plain dress , with a little shawl , and a sun - bonnet ; she is stout and short , and her face is a square - chinned Irish face ; but her eyes look at you like your mother ' s .
Now there is something very surprising about this statue : it was the first one that was ever made in America in honour of a woman .
Even in Europe there are not many monuments to women , and most of the few are to great queens or princesses , very beautiful and very richly dressed .
You see , this statue in New Orleans is not quite like anything else .
It is the statue of a woman named Margaret .
Her whole name was Margaret Haughery , but no one in New Orleans remembers her by it , any more than you think of your dearest sister by her full name ; she is just Margaret .
This is her story , and it tells why people made a monument for her .
When Margaret was a tiny baby , her father and mother died , and she was adopted by two young people as poor and as kind as her own parents .
She lived with them until she grew up .
Then she married , and had a little baby of her own .
But very soon her husband died , and then the baby died , too , and Margaret was all alone in the world .
She was poor , but she was strong , and knew how to work .
All day , from morning until evening , she ironed clothes in a laundry .
And every day , as she worked by the window , she saw the little motherless children from the orphan asylum , near by , working and playing about .
After a while , there came a great sickness upon the city , and so many mothers and fathers died that there were more orphans than the asylum could possibly take care of .
They needed a good friend , now .
You would hardly think , would you , that a poor woman who worked in a laundry could be much of a friend to them ?
But Margaret was .
She went straight to the kind Sisters who had the asylum and told them she was going to give them part of her wages and was going to work for them , besides .
Pretty soon she had worked so hard that she had some money saved from her wages .
With this , she bought two cows and a little delivery cart .
Then she carried her milk to her customers in the little cart every morning ; and as she went , she begged the pieces of food left over from the hotels and rich houses , and brought it back in the cart to the hungry children in the asylum .
In the very hardest times that was often all the food the poor children had .
A part of the money Margaret earned went every week to the asylum , and after a few years that was made very much larger and better .
Margaret was so careful and so good at business that , in spite of her giving , she bought more cows and earned more money .
With this , she built a home for orphan babies ; she called it her baby house .
After a time , Margaret had a chance to get a bakery , and then she became a bread - woman instead of a milk - woman .
She carried the bread just as she had carried the milk , in her cart .
And still she kept giving money to the asylum .
Then the great war came , the Civil War .
In all the trouble and sickness and fear of that time , Margaret drove her cart of bread ; and somehow she had always enough to give the starving soldiers , and for her babies , beside what she sold .
And despite all this , she earned enough so that when the war was over she built a big steam factory for her bread .
By this time everybody in the city knew her .
The children all over the city loved her ; the business men were proud of her ; the poor people all came to her for advice .
She used to sit at the open door of her office , in a calico gown and a little shawl , and give a good word to everybody , rich or poor .
Then , by and by , one day , Margaret died .
And when it was time to read her will , the people found that , with all her giving , she had still saved a great deal of money , and that she had left every penny of it to the different orphan asylums of the city ,-- each one of them was given something .
Whether they were for white children or black , for Jews , Catholics , or Protestants , made no difference ; for Margaret always said , " They are all orphans alike ."
And just think , dears , that splendid , wise will was signed with a cross instead of a name , for Margaret had never learned to read or write !
When the people of New Orleans knew that Margaret was dead , they said , " She was a mother to the motherless ; she was a friend to those who had no friends ; she had wisdom greater than schools can teach ; we will not let her memory go from us ."
So they made a statue of her , just as she used to look , sitting in her own office door , or driving in her own little cart .
And there it stands to - day , in memory of the great love and the great power of plain Margaret Haughery , of New Orleans .
THE DAGDA ' S HARP
You know , dears , in the old countries there are many fine stories about things which happened so very long ago that nobody knows exactly how much of them is true .
Ireland is like that .
It is so old that even as long ago as four thousand years it had people who dug in the mines , and knew how to weave cloth and to make beautiful ornaments out of gold , and who could fight and make laws ; but we do not know just where they came from , nor exactly how they lived .
These people left us some splendid stories about their kings , their fights , and their beautiful women ; but it all happened such a long time ago that the stories are mixtures of things that really happened and what people said about them , and we don ' t know just which is which .
The stories are called _legends_ .
One of the prettiest legends is the story I am going to tell you about the Dagda ' s harp .
It is said that there were two quite different kinds of people in Ireland : one set of people with long dark hair and dark eyes , called Fomorians -- they carried long slender spears made of golden bronze when they fought -- and another race of people who were golden - haired and blue - eyed , and who carried short , blunt , heavy spears of dull metal .
The golden - haired people had a great chieftain who was also a kind of high priest , who was called the Dagda .
And this Dagda had a wonderful magic harp .
The harp was beautiful to look upon , mighty in size , made of rare wood , and ornamented with gold and jewels ; and it had wonderful music in its strings , which only the Dagda could call out .
When the men were going out to battle , the Dagda would set up his magic harp and sweep his hand across the strings , and a war song would ring out which would make every warrior buckle on his armour , brace his knees , and shout , " Forth to the fight !"
Then , when the men came back from the battle , weary and wounded , the Dagda would take his harp and strike a few chords , and as the magic music stole out upon the air , every man forgot his weariness and the smart of his wounds , and thought of the honour he had won , and of the comrade who had died beside him , and of the safety of his wife and children .
Then the song would swell out louder , and every warrior would remember only the glory he had helped win for the king ; and each man would rise at the great table , his cup in his hand , and shout " Long live the King !"
There came a time when the Fomorians and the golden - haired men were at war ; and in the midst of a great battle , while the Dagda ' s hall was not so well guarded as usual , some of the chieftains of the Fomorians stole the great harp from the wall , where it hung , and fled away with it .
Their wives and children and some few of their soldiers went with them , and they fled fast and far through the night , until they were a long way from the battlefield .
Then they thought they were safe , and they turned aside into a vacant castle , by the road , and sat down to a banquet , hanging the stolen harp on the wall .
The Dagda , with two or three of his warriors , had followed hard on their track .
And while they were in the midst of their banqueting , the door was suddenly burst open , and the Dagda stood there , with his men .
Some of the Fomorians sprang to their feet , but before any of them could grasp a weapon , the Dagda called out to his harp on the wall , " Come to me , O my harp !"
The great harp recognised its master ' s voice , and leaped from the wall .
Whirling through the hall , sweeping aside and killing the men who got in its way , it sprang to its master ' s hand .
And the Dagda took his harp and swept his hand across the strings in three great , solemn chords .
The harp answered with the magic Music of Tears .
As the wailing harmony smote upon the air , the women of the Fomorians bowed their heads and wept bitterly , the strong men turned their faces aside , and the little children sobbed .
Again the Dagda touched the strings , and this time the magic Music of Mirth leaped from the harp .
And when they heard that Music of Mirth , the young warriors of the Fomorians began to laugh ; they laughed till the cups fell from their grasp , and the spears dropped from their hands , while the wine flowed from the broken bowls ; they laughed until their limbs were helpless with excess of glee .
Once more the Dagda touched his harp , but very , very softly .
And now a music stole forth as soft as dreams , and as sweet as joy : it was the magic Music of Sleep .
When they heard that , gently , gently , the Fomorian women bowed their heads in slumber ; the little children crept to their mothers ' laps ; the old men nodded ; and the young warriors drooped in their seats and closed their eyes : one after another all the Fomorians sank into sleep .
When they were all deep in slumber , the Dagda took his magic harp , and he and his golden - haired warriors stole softly away , and came in safety to their own homes again .
THE TAILOR AND THE THREE BEASTS
There was once a tailor in Galway , and he started out on a journey to go to the king ' s court at Dublin .
He had not gone far when he met a white horse , and he saluted him .
" God save you ," said the tailor .
" God save you ," said the horse .
" Where are you going ?"
" I am going to Dublin ," said the tailor , " to build a court for the king and to get a lady for a wife , if I am able to do it ."
For , it seems the king had promised his daughter and a great lot of money to anyone who should be able to build up his court .
The trouble was , that three giants lived in the wood near the court , and every night they came out of the wood and threw down all that was built by day .
So nobody could get the court built .
" Would you make me a hole ," said the old white garraun , " where I could go in to hide whenever the people come to fetch me to the mill or the kiln , so that they won ' t see me ; for they tire me out doing work for them ?"
" I ' ll do that , indeed ," said the tailor , " and welcome ."
He brought his spade and shovel , and he made a hole , and he asked the old white horse to go down into it so that he could see if it would fit him .
The white horse went down into the hole , but when he tried to come up again , he was not able .
" Make a place for me now ," said the white horse , " by which I can come up out of the hole here , whenever I am hungry ."
" I will not ," said the tailor ; " remain where you are until I come back , and I ' ll lift you up ."
The tailor went forward next day , and the fox met him .
" God save you ," said the fox .
" God save you ," said the tailor .
" Where are you going ?"
said the fox .
" I ' m going to Dublin , to try to make a court for the king ."
" Would you make a place for me where I can hide ?"
said the fox .
" The rest of the foxes are always beating me , and they will not allow me to eat anything with them ."
" I ' ll do that for you ," said the tailor .
He took his axe and his saw , and he made a thing like a crate , and he told the fox to get into it so that he could see whether it would fit him .
The fox went into it , and when the tailor had him down , he shut him in .
When the fox was satisfied at last that he had a nice place of it within , he asked the tailor to let him out , and the tailor answered that he would not .
" Wait there until I come back again ," said he .
The tailor went forward the next day , and he had not walked very far when he met a lion ; and the lion greeted him .
" God save you ," said the lion .
" God save you ," said the tailor .
" Where are you going ?"
said the lion .
" I ' m going to Dublin to make a court for the king if I am able to make it ," said the tailor .
" If you were to make a plough for me ," said the lion , " I and the other lions could be ploughing and harrowing until we ' d have a bit to eat in the harvest ."
" I ' ll do that for you ," said the tailor .
He brought his axe and his saw , and he made a plough .
When the plough was made he put a hole in the beam of it , and got the lion to go in under the plough so that he might see if he was any good as a ploughman .
He placed the lion ' s tail in the hole he had made for it , and then clapped in a peg , and the lion was not able to draw out his tail again .
" Loose me now ," said the lion , " and we ' ll fix ourselves and go ploughing ."
The tailor said he would not loose him until he came back himself .
He left him there then , and he came to Dublin .
When he arrived , he engaged workmen and began to build the court .
At the end of the day he had the workmen put a great stone on top of the work .
When the great stone was raised up , the tailor put some sort of contrivance under it , that he might be able to throw it down as soon as the giants came near to it .
The workpeople then went home , and the tailor went in hiding behind the big stone .
When the darkness of the night was come , he saw the three giants arriving , and they began throwing down the court until they arrived at the place where the tailor was in hiding up above , and one of them struck a blow with his sledge on the place where he was .
The tailor threw down the stone , and it fell on him and killed him .
The other two went home then and left all of the court that was remaining without throwing it down , since their companion was dead .
The workmen came again the next day , and they were working until night , and as they were going home the tailor told them to put up the big stone on the top of the work , as it had been the night before .
They did that for him , went home , and the tailor went in hiding the same as he did the evening before .
When the people had all gone to rest , the two giants came , and they were throwing down all that was before them , but as soon as they began , the tailor commenced manoeuvring until he was able to throw down the great stone , so that it fell upon the skull of the giant that was under him , and it killed him .
After this there was only the one giant left , and he never came again until the court was finished .
Then when the work was over , the tailor went to the king and told him to give him his wife and his money , as he had the court finished ; and the king said he would not give him any wife until he had killed the other giant , for he said that it was not by his strength he had killed the two giants before , and that he would give him nothing now until he killed the other one for him .
Then the tailor said that he would kill the other giant for him , and welcome ; that there should be no delay at all about that .
The tailor went then till he came to the place where the other giant was , and asked did he want a servant - boy .
The giant said he did want one , if he could get one who would do everything that he would do himself .
" Anything that you will do , I will do ," said the tailor .
They went to their dinner then , and when they had eaten it , the giant asked the tailor " would he dare to swallow as much boiling broth as himself ."
The tailor said , " I will certainly do that , but you must give me an hour before we commence ."
The tailor went out then , and he got a sheepskin , which he sewed up until he made a bag of it , and he slipped it down under his coat .
He came in then and told the giant first to drink a gallon of the broth himself .
The giant drank that up while it was boiling .
" I ' ll do that ," said the tailor .
He went on until it was all poured into the skin , and the giant thought he had drunk it .
The giant drank another gallon then , and the tailor let another gallon down into the skin , but the giant thought he was drinking it .
" I ' ll do a thing now that you will not dare to do ," said the tailor .
" You will not ," said the giant .
" What is it you would do ?"
" Make a hole and let out the broth again ," said the tailor .
" Do it yourself first ," said the giant .
The tailor gave a prod of the knife , and he let the broth out of the skin .
" Now you do that ," said he .
" I will ," said the giant , giving such a prod of the knife into his own stomach that he killed himself .
That is the way the tailor killed the third giant .
He went to the king then , and desired him to send him out his wife and his money , saying that he would throw down the court again if he did not do so immediately .
They were afraid then that he would throw down the court , and they sent the wife to him .
When the tailor was a day gone , himself and his wife , they repented and followed him to take his wife away from him again .
The people who went after him followed him until they came to the place where the lion was , and the lion said to them , " The tailor and his wife were here yesterday .
I saw them going by , and if you will loose me now , I am swifter than you , and I will follow them until I overtake them ."
When they heard that , they released the lion .
The lion and the people of Dublin went on , and pursued the tailor , until they came to the place where the fox was , and the fox greeted them , and said , " The tailor and his wife were here this morning , and if you will loose me , I am swifter than you , and I will follow them , and overtake them ."
They therefore set the fox free .
The lion and the fox and the army of Dublin went on then , trying to catch the tailor , and they kept going until they came to the place where the old white garraun was , and the old white garraun told them that the tailor and his wife were there in the morning , and " Loose me ," said he ; " I am swifter than you , and I ' ll overtake them ."
They released the old white garraun then , and the old white garraun , the fox , the lion , and the army of Dublin pursued the tailor and his wife , and it was not long before they came up with them .
When the tailor saw them coming , he got out of the coach with his wife , and he sat down on the ground .
When the old white garraun saw the tailor sitting on the ground , he said , " That ' s the position he was in when he made the hole for me , that I couldn ' t get out of , when I went down into it .
I ' ll go no nearer to him ."
" No !"
said the fox , " but that ' s the way he was when he was making the thing for me , and I ' ll go no nearer to him ."
" No !"
says the lion , " but that ' s the very way he had , when he was making the plough that I was caught in .
I ' ll go no nearer to him ."
They all left him then and returned .
The tailor and his wife came home to Galway .
HOW THE SEA BECAME SALT
This story was told long ago by our Northern forefathers who brought it with them in their dragon ships when they crossed the North Sea to settle in England .
In those days men were apt to invent stories to account for things about them which seemed peculiar , and loving the sea as they did , it is not strange that they had remarked the peculiarity of the ocean water and had found a reason why it is so different from the water in the rivers and steams .
This is not the only story that has come down to tell us how people of old accounted for the sea being salt .
There are many such stories , each different from the other , all showing that the same childlike spirit of inquiry was at work in different places , striving to find an answer to this riddle of nature .
* * * * *
There sprang from the sons of Odin a race of men who became mighty kings of the earth , and one of these , named Frode , ruled over the lands that are called Denmark .
Now about this time were found in Denmark two great millstones , so large that no one had the strength to turn them .
So Frode sent for all the wise men of the land and bade them examine the stones and tell him of what use they were , since no one could grind with them .
And after the wise men had looked closely at them and read the magic letters which were cut upon their edge , they said that the millstones were precious indeed , since they would grind out of nothing anything that the miller might wish .
So King Frode sent messengers over the world to find for him two servants who would be strong enough to grind with the millstones , and after a long , long time his messengers found him two maid - servants , who were bigger and stronger than anyone in Denmark had ever seen .
But no one guessed that these were really Giant - Maidens who bore a grudge against all of the race of Odin .
Directly the Giant - Maidens were brought before Frode , and before they had rested after their long journey , or satisfied their hunger , he bade them go to the mill , and grind for him gold and peace and happiness .
" They sang and swung The swift mill stone , And with loud voice They made their moan .
' We grind for Frode Wealth and gold Abundant riches He shall behold .'"
Presently Frode came into the mill to see that the new servants were performing their task diligently .
And as he watched them from the shadow by the door , the maidens stayed their grinding for a while to rest .
The greedy man could not bear to see even an instant ' s pause , and he came out of the shadow , and bade them , with harsh words , go on grinding , and cease not except for so long as the cuckoo was silent , or while he himself sang a song .
Now it was early summer - time , and the cuckoo was calling all the day and most of the night .
So the Giant - Maidens waxed very wroth with King Frode , and as they resumed their labours they sang a song of the hardness of their lot in the household of this pitiless King .
They had been grinding out wealth and happiness and peace , but now they bade the magic stones to grind something very different .
Presently , as the great stones moved round and round , Frode , who still stood by , heard one chant in a low , sing - song voice ,--
" I see a fire east of the town -- the curlews awake and sound a note of warning .
A host approaches in haste , to burn the dwelling of the king ."
And the next took up her song ,--
" No longer will Frode sit on his throne , and rule over rings of red gold and mighty millstones .
Now must we grind with all our might -- and , behold !
red warriors come forth -- and revenge , and bloodshed , and ruin ."
Then Frode shook from head to foot in his terror , for he heard the tramp of a mighty host of warriors advancing from the sea .
And as he looked for a way of escape , the braces of the millstones broke with the strong grinding , and fell in two .
And the whole world shook and trembled with the mighty shock of that breaking .
But through the crash and din came the voices of the Giant - Maidens , loudly chanting ,--
" We have turned the stone round ; Though weary the maidens , See what they have ground !"
And that same night a mighty sea - king came up and slew Frode and plundered his city .
When he had sacked the city , the sea - king took on board his ship the two Giant - Maidens , and with them the broken millstones .
And he bade them begin at once to grind salt , for of this he had very scanty store .
So they ground and ground ; and in the middle of the night , being weary , they asked the sea - king if he had not got salt enough .
But the sea - king was hard of heart , like Frode , and he roughly bade them go on grinding .
And the maidens did so , and worked to such effect that within a short time the millstones had ground out so much salt that the weight of it began to sink the ship .
Down , down it sank , ship and giants and millstones , and in that spot , in the very middle of the ocean , arose a whirlpool , from whence the salt is carried north and south , east and west , throughout the waters of the earth .
And that is how the sea became salt .
THE CASTLE OF FORTUNE
One lovely summer morning , just as the sun rose , two travellers started on a journey .
They were both strong young men , but one was a lazy fellow and the other was a worker .
As the first sunbeams came over the hills , they shone on a great castle standing on the heights , as far away as the eye could see .
It was a wonderful and beautiful castle , all glistening towers that gleamed like marble , and glancing windows that shone like crystal .
The two young men looked at it eagerly , and longed to go nearer .
Suddenly , out of the distance , something like a great butterfly , of white and gold , swept toward them .
And when it came nearer , they saw that it was a most beautiful lady , robed in floating garments as fine as cobwebs and wearing on her head a crown so bright that no one could tell whether it was of diamonds or of dew .
She stood , light as air , on a great , shining , golden ball , which rolled along with her , swifter than the wind .
As she passed the travellers , she turned her face to them and smiled .
" Follow me !"
she said .
The lazy man sat down in the grass with a discontented sigh .
" She has an easy time of it !"
he said .
But the industrious man ran after the lovely lady and caught the hem of her floating robe in his grasp .
" Who are you , and whither are you going ?"
he asked .
" I am the Fairy of Fortune ," the beautiful lady said , " and that is my castle .
You may reach it to - day , if you will ; there is time , if you waste none .
If you reach it before the last stroke of midnight , I will receive you there , and will be your friend .
But if you come one second after midnight , it will be too late ."
When she had said this , her robe slipped from the traveller ' s hand and she was gone .
The industrious man hurried back to his friend , and told him what the fairy had said .
" The idea !"
said the lazy , man , and he laughed ; " of course , if we had a horse there would be some chance , but _walk_ all that way ?
No , thank you !"
" Then good - bye ," said his friend , " I am off ."
And he set out , down the road toward the shining castle , with a good steady stride , his eyes straight ahead .
The lazy man lay down in the soft grass , and looked rather wistfully at the far - away towers .
" If only I had a good horse !"
he sighed .
Just at that moment he felt something warm nosing about at his shoulder , and heard a little whinny .
He turned round , and there stood a little horse !
It was a dainty creature , gentle - looking , and finely built , and it was saddled and bridled .
" Hello !"
said the lazy man .
" Luck often comes when one isn ' t looking for it !"
And in an instant he had leaped on the horse , and headed him for the castle of fortune .
The little horse started at a fine pace , and in a very few minutes they overtook the other traveller , plodding along on foot .
" How do you like shank ' s pony ?"
laughed the lazy man , as he passed his friend .
The industrious man only nodded , and kept on with his steady stride , eyes straight ahead .
The horse kept his good pace , and by noon the towers of the castle stood out against the sky , much nearer and more beautiful .
Exactly at noon , the horse turned aside from the road , into a shady grove on a hill , and stopped .
" Wise beast ," said his rider : "' haste makes waste ,' and all things are better in moderation .
I ' ll follow your example , and eat and rest a bit ."
He dismounted and sat down in the cool moss , with his back against a tree .
He had a lunch in his traveller ' s pouch , and he ate it comfortably .
Then he felt drowsy from the heat and the early ride , so he pulled his hat over his eyes , and settled himself for a nap .
" It will go all the better for a little rest ," he said .
That _was_ a sleep !
He slept like the seven sleepers , and he dreamed the most beautiful things you could imagine .
At last , he dreamed that he had entered the castle of fortune and was being received with great festivities .
Everything he wanted was brought to him , and music played while fireworks were set off in his honour .
The music was so loud that he awoke .
He sat up , rubbing his eyes , and behold , the fireworks were the very last rays of the setting sun , and the music was the voice of the other traveller , passing the grove on foot !
" Time to be off ," said the lazy man , and looked about him for the pretty horse .
No horse was to be found .
The only living thing near was an old , bony , grey donkey .
The man called , and whistled , and looked , but no little horse appeared .
After a long while he gave it up , and , since there was nothing better to do , he mounted the old grey donkey and set out again .
The donkey was slow , and he was hard to ride , but he was better than nothing ; and gradually the lazy man saw the towers of the castle draw nearer .
Now it began to grow dark ; in the castle windows the lights began to show .
Then came trouble !
Slower , and slower , went the grey donkey ; slower , and slower , till , in the very middle of a pitch - black wood , he stopped and stood still .
Not a step would he budge for all the coaxing and scolding and beating his rider could give .
At last the rider kicked him , as well as beat him , and at that the donkey felt that he had had enough .
Up went his hind heels , and down went his head , and over it went the lazy man on to the stony ground .
There he lay groaning for many minutes , for it was not a soft place , I can assure you .
How he wished he were in a soft , warm bed , with his aching bones comfortable in blankets !
The very thought of it made him remember the Castle of Fortune , for he knew there must be fine beds there .
To get to those beds he was even willing to bestir his poor limbs , so he sat up and felt about him for the donkey .
No donkey was to be found .
The lazy man crept round and round the spot where he had fallen , scratched his hands on the stumps , tore his face in the briers , and bumped his knees on the stones .
But no donkey was there .
He would have laid down to sleep again , but he could hear now the howls of hungry wolves in the woods ; that it did not sound pleasant .
Finally , his hand struck against something that felt like a saddle .
He grasped it , thankfully , and started to mount his donkey .
The beast he took hold of seemed very small , and , as he mounted , he felt that its sides were moist and slimy .
It gave him a shudder , and he hesitated ; but at that moment he heard a distant clock strike .
It was striking eleven !
There was still time to reach the castle of fortune , but no more than enough ; so he mounted his new steed and rode on once more .
The animal was easier to sit on than the donkey , and the saddle seemed remarkably high behind ; it was good to lean against .
But even the donkey was not so slow as this ; the new steed was slower than he .
After a while , however , he pushed his way out of the woods into the open , and there stood the castle , only a little way ahead !
All its windows were ablaze with lights .
A ray from them fell on the lazy man ' s beast , and he saw what he was riding : it was a gigantic snail !
a snail as large as a calf !
A cold shudder ran over the lazy man ' s body , and he would have got off his horrid animal then and there , but just then the clock struck once more .
It was the first of the long , slow strokes that mark midnight !
The man grew frantic when he heard it .
He drove his heels into the snail ' s sides , to make him hurry .
Instantly , the snail drew in his head , curled up in his shell , and left the lazy man sitting in a heap on the ground !
The clock struck twice .
If the man had run for it , he could still have reached the castle , but , instead , he sat still and shouted for a horse .
" A beast , a beast !"
he wailed , " any kind of a beast that will take me to the castle !"
The clock struck three times .
And as it struck the third note , something came rustling and rattling out of the darkness , something that sounded like a horse with harness .
The lazy man jumped on its back , a very queer , low back .
As he mounted , he saw the doors of the castle open , and saw his friend standing on the threshold , waving his cap and beckoning to him .
The clock struck four times , and the new steed began to stir ; as it struck five , he moved a pace forward ; as it struck six , he stopped ; as it struck seven , he turned himself about ; as it struck eight , he began to move backward , away from the castle !
The lazy man shouted , and beat him , but the beast went slowly backward .
And the clock struck nine .
The man tried to slide off , then , but from all sides of his strange animal great arms came reaching up and held him fast .
And in the next ray of moonlight that broke the dark clouds , he saw that he was mounted on a monster crab !
One by one , the lights went out , in the castle windows .
The clock struck ten .
Backward went the crab .
Eleven !
Still the crab went backward .
The clock struck twelve !
Then the great doors shut with a clang , and the castle of fortune was closed for ever to the lazy man .
What became of him and his crab no one knows to this day , and no one cares .
But the industrious man was received by the Fairy of Fortune , and made happy in the castle as long as he wanted to stay .
And ever afterward she was his friend , helping him not only to happiness for himself , but also showing him how to help others , wherever he went .
DAVID AND GOLIATH
A long time ago , there was a boy named David , who lived in a country in the Far East .
He was good to look upon , for he had fair hair and a ruddy skin ; and he was very strong and brave and modest .
He was shepherd - boy for his father , and all day -- often all night -- he was out in the fields , far from home , watching over the sheep .
He had to guard them from wild animals , and lead them to the right pastures , and care for them .
By and by , war broke out between the people of David ' s country and a people that lived near at hand ; these men were called Philistines , and the people of David ' s country were named Israelites .
All the strong men of Israel went up to the battle , to fight for their king .
David ' s three older brothers went , but he was only a boy , so he was left behind to care for the sheep .
After the brothers had been gone some time , David ' s father longed very much to hear from them , and to know if they were safe ; so he sent for David , from the fields , and said to him , " Take now for thy brothers an ephah of this parched corn , and these ten loaves , and run to the camp , where thy brothers are ; and carry these ten cheeses to the captain of their thousand , and see how thy brothers fare , and bring me word again ."
( An ephah is about three pecks .)
David rose early in the morning , and left the sheep with a keeper , and took the corn and the loaves and the cheeses , as his father had commanded him , and went to the camp of the Israelites .
The camp stood on a mountain on the one side , and the Philistines stood on a mountain on the other side ; and there was a valley between .
David came to the place where the Israelites were , just as the host was going forth to the fight , shouting for the battle .
So he left his gifts in the hands of the keeper of the baggage , and ran into the army , amongst the soldiers , to find his brothers .
When he found them , he saluted them and began to talk with them .
But while he was asking them the questions his father had commanded , there arose a great shouting and tumult among the Israelites , and men came running back from the front line of battle ; everything became confusion .
David looked to see what the trouble was , and he saw a strange sight : down the slope of the opposite mountain came striding a Philistine warrior , calling out something in a taunting voice ; he was a gigantic man , the largest David had ever seen , and he was covered with armour , that shone in the sun : he had a helmet of brass upon his head , and he was armed with a coat of mail , and he had greaves of brass upon his legs , and a target of brass between his shoulders ; his spear was so tremendous that the staff of it was like a weaver ' s beam , and his shield so great that a man went before him , to carry it .
" Who is that ?"
asked David .
" It is Goliath , of Gath , champion of the Philistines ," said the soldiers about .
" Every day , for forty days , he has come forth , so , and challenged us to send a man against him , in single combat ; and since no one dares to go out against him alone , the armies cannot fight ."
( That was one of the laws of warfare in those times .)
" What !"
said David , " does none dare go out against him ?"
As he spoke , the giant stood still , on the hillside opposite the host of Israel , and shouted his challenge , scornfully .
He said , " Why are ye come out to set your battle in array ?
Am I not a Philistine , and ye servants of Saul ?
Choose you a man , and let him come down to me .
If he be able to fight with me , and to kill me , then will we be your servants ; but if I prevail against him , and kill him , then shall ye be our servants , and serve us .
I defy the armies of Israel this day ; give me a man , that we may fight together !"
When King Saul heard these words , he was dismayed , and all the men of Israel , when they saw the man , fled from him and were sore afraid .
David heard them talking among themselves , whispering and murmuring .
They were saying , " Have ye seen this man that is come up ?
Surely if anyone killeth him that man will the king make rich ; perhaps he will give him his daughter in marriage , and make his family free in Israel !"
David heard this , and he asked the men if it were so .
It was surely so , they said .
" But ," said David , " who is this Philistine , that he should defy the armies of the living God ?"
And he was stirred with anger .
Very soon , some of the officers told the king about the youth who was asking so many questions , and who said that it was shame upon Israel that a mere Philistine should defy the armies of the living God .
Immediately Saul sent for him .
When David came before Saul , he said to the king , " Let no man ' s heart fail because of him ; thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine ."
But Saul looked at David , and said , " Thou art not able to go against this Philistine , to fight with him , for thou art but a youth , and he has been a man of war from his youth ."
Then David said to Saul , " Once I was keeping my father ' s sheep , and there came a lion , and a bear , and took a lamb out of the flock ; and I went out after the lion , and struck him ; and delivered the lamb out of his mouth , and when he arose against me , I caught him by the beard , and struck him , and slew him !
Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear ; and this Philistine shall be as one of them , for he hath defied the armies of the living God .
The Lord , who delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear , he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine ."
" Go ," said Saul , " and the Lord be with thee !"
And he armed David with his own armour ,-- he put a helmet of brass upon his head , and armed him with a coat of mail .
But when David girded his sword upon his armour , and tried to walk , he said to Saul , " I cannot go with these , for I am not used to them ."
And he put them off .
Then he took his staff in his hand and went and chose five smooth stones out of the brook , and put them in a shepherd ' s bag which he had ; and his sling was in his hand ; and he went out and drew near to the Philistine .
And the Philistine came on and drew near to David ; and the man that bore his shield went before him .
And when the Philistine looked about and saw David , he disdained him , for David was but a boy , and ruddy , and of a fair countenance .
And he said to David , " Am I a dog , that thou comest to me with a cudgel ?"
And with curses he cried out again , " Come to me , and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the air , and to the beasts of the field ."
But David looked at him , and answered , " Thou comest to me with a sword , and with a spear , and with a shield ; but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts , the God of the armies of Israel , whom thou hast defied .
This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand , and I will smite thee , and take thy head from thee , and I will give the carcasses of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the air , and to the wild beasts of the earth , that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel !
And all this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear ; for the battle is the Lord ' s , and he will give you into our hands ."
And then , when the Philistine arose , and came , and drew nigh to meet David , David made haste and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine .
And when he was a little way from him , he put his hand in his bag , and took from thence a stone , and put it in his sling , and slung it , and smote the Philistine in the forehead , so that the stone sank into his forehead ; and he fell on his face to the earth .
And David ran , and stood upon the Philistine , and took his sword , and drew it out of its sheath , and slew him with it .
Then , when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead , they fled .
But the army of Israel pursued them , and victory was with the men of Israel .
And after the battle , David was taken to the king ' s tent , and made a captain over many men ; and he went no more to his father ' s house , to herd the sheep , but became a man , in the king ' s service .
THE SHEPHERD ' S SONG
David had many fierce battles to fight for King Saul against the enemies of Israel , and he won them all .
Then , later , he had to fight against the king ' s own soldiers , to save himself , for King Saul grew wickedly jealous of David ' s fame as a soldier , and tried to kill him .
Twice , when David had a chance to kill the king , he forbore to harm him ; but even then , Saul continued trying to take his life , and David was kept away from his home as if he were an enemy .
But when King Saul died , the people chose David for their king , because there was no one so brave , so wise , or so faithful to God .
King David lived a long time , and made his people famous for victory and happiness ; he had many troubles and many wars , but he always trusted that God would help him , and he never deserted his own people in any hard place .
After a battle , or when it was a holiday , or when he was very thankful for something , King David used to make songs , and sing them before the people .
Some of these songs were so beautiful that they have never been forgotten .
After all these hundreds and hundred of years , we sing them still ; we call them Psalms .
Often , after David had made a song , his chief musician would sing with him , as the people gathered to worship God .
Sometimes the singers were divided into two great choruses , and went to the service in two processions ; then one chorus would sing a verse of David ' s song , and the other procession would answer with the next , and then both would sing together ; it was very beautiful to hear .
Even now , we sometimes do that with the songs of David in our churches .
One of his Psalms that everybody loves is a song that David made when he remembered the days before he came to Saul ' s camp .
He remembered the days and nights he used to spend in the fields with the sheep , when he was just a shepherd - boy ; and he thought to himself that God had taken care of him just as carefully as he himself used to care for the little lambs .
It is a beautiful song ; I wish we knew the music that David made for it , but we only know his words .
I will tell it to you now , and then you may learn it , to say for yourselves .
The Lord is my shepherd ; I shall not want .
He maketh me to lie down in green pastures ; he leadeth me beside the still waters .
He restoreth my soul ; he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name ' s sake .
Yea , though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death , I will fear no evil : for thou art with me ; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me .
Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies : thou anointest my head with oil ; my cup runneth over .
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life ; and I will dwell in the house of the Lord for ever .=
THE HIDDEN SERVANTS
This is a legend about a hermit who lived long ago .
He lived high up on the mountainside in a tiny cave ; his food was roots and acorns , a bit of bread given by a peasant , or a cheese brought by a woman who wanted his prayers ; his work was praying , and thinking about God .
For forty years he lived so , preaching to the people , praying for them , comforting them in trouble , and , most of all , worshipping in his heart .
There was just one thing he cared about : it was to make his soul so pure and perfect that it could be one of the stones in God ' s great Temple of Heaven .
One day , after the forty years , he had a great longing to know how far along he had got with his work ,-- how it looked to the Heavenly Father .
And he prayed that he might be shown a man --
" Whose soul in the heavenly grace had grown To the selfsame measure as his own ; Whose treasure on the celestial shore Could neither be less than his nor more ."
As he looked up from his prayer , a white - robed angel stood in the path before him .
The hermit bowed before the messenger with great gladness , for he knew that his wish was answered .
" Go to the nearest town ," the angel said , " and there , in the public square , you will find a mountebank ( a clown ) making the people laugh for money .
He is the man you seek ; his soul has grown to the selfsame stature as your own ; his treasure on the celestial shore is neither less than yours nor more ."
When the angel had faded from sight , the hermit bowed his head again , but this time with great sorrow and fear .
Had his forty years of prayer been a terrible mistake , and was his soul indeed like a clown , fooling in the market - place ?
He knew not what to think .
Almost he hoped he should not find the man , and could believe that he had dreamed the angel vision .
But when he came , after a long , tiring walk to the village , and the square , alas !
there was the clown , doing his silly tricks for the crowd .
The hermit stood and looked at him with terror and sadness , for he felt that he was looking at his own soul .
The face he saw was thin and tired , and though it kept a smile or a grin for the people , it seemed very sad to the hermit .
Soon the man felt the hermit ' s eyes ; he could not go on with his tricks .
And when he had stopped and the crowd had left , the hermit went and drew the man aside to a place where they could rest ; for he wanted more than anything else on earth to know what the man ' s soul was like , because what it was , his was .
So , after a little , he asked the clown , very gently , what his life was , what it had been .
And the clown answered , very sadly , that it was just as it looked ,-- a life of foolish tricks , for that was the only way of earning his bread that he knew .
" But have you never been anything different ?"
asked the hermit , painfully .
The clown ' s head sank in his hands .
" Yes , holy father ," he said , " I have been something else .
I was a thief !
I once belonged to the most wicked band of mountain robbers that ever tormented the land , and I was as wicked as the worst ."
Alas !
The hermit felt that his heart was breaking .
Was this how he looked to the Heavenly Father -- like a thief , a cruel mountain robber ?
He could hardly speak , and the tears streamed from his old eyes , but he gathered strength to ask one more question .
" I beg you ," he said , " if you have ever done a single good deed in your life , remember it now , and tell it to me "; for he thought that even one good deed would save him from utter despair .
" Yes , one ," the clown said , " but it was so small , it is not worth telling ; my life has been worthless ."
" Tell me that one !"
pleaded the hermit .
" Once ," said the man , " our band broke into a convent garden and stole away one of the nuns , to sell as a slave or to keep for a ransom .
We dragged her with us over the rough , long way to our mountain camp , and set a guard over her for the night .
The poor thing prayed to us so piteously to let her go !
And as she begged , she looked from one hard face to another , with trusting , imploring eyes , as if she could not believe men could be really bad .
Father , when her eyes met mine something pierced my heart !
Pity and shame leaped up , for the first time , within me .
But I made my face as hard and cruel as the rest , and she turned away , hopeless .
" When all was dark and still , I stole like a cat to where she lay bound .
I put my hand on her wrist and whispered , ' Trust me , and I will take you safely home .'
I cut her bonds with my knife , and she looked at me to show that she trusted .
Father , by terrible ways that I knew , hidden from the others , I took her safe to the convent gate .
She knocked ; they opened ; and she slipped inside .
And , as she left me , she turned and said , ' God will remember .'
" That was all .
I could not go back to the old bad life , and I had never learned an honest way to earn my bread .
So I became a clown , and must be a clown until I die ."
" No !
no !
my son ," cried the hermit , and now his tears were tears of joy .
" God has remembered ; your soul is in his sight even as mine , who have prayed and preached for forty years .
Your treasure waits for you on the heavenly shore just as mine does ."
" As _yours_ ?
Father , you mock me !"
said the clown .
But when the hermit told him the story of his prayer and the angel ' s answer , the poor clown was transfigured with joy , for he knew that his sins were forgiven .
And when the hermit went home to his mountain , the clown went with him .
He , too , became a hermit , and spent his time in praise and prayer .
Together they lived , and worked , and helped the poor .
And when , after two years , the man who had been a clown died , the hermit felt that he had lost a brother more holy than himself .
For ten years more the hermit lived in his mountain hut , thinking always of God , fasting and praying , and doing no least thing that was wrong .
Then , one day , the wish once more came , to know how his work was growing , and once more he prayed that he might see a being --
" Whose soul in the heavenly grace had grown To the selfsame measure as his own ; Whose treasure on the celestial shore Could neither be less than his nor more ."
Once more his prayer was answered .
The angel came to him , and told him to go to a certain village on the other side of the mountain , and to a small farm in it , where two women lived .
In them he should find two souls like his own , in God ' s sight .
When the hermit came to the door of the little farm , the two women who lived there were overjoyed to see him , for everyone loved and honoured his name .
They put a chair for him on the cool porch , and brought food and drink .
But the hermit was too eager to wait .
He longed greatly to know what the souls of the two women were like , and from their looks he could see only that they were gentle and honest .
One was old , and the other of middle age .
Presently he asked them about their lives .
They told him the little there was to tell : they had worked hard always , in the fields with their husbands , or in the house ; they had many children ; they had seen hard times ,-- sickness , sorrow ; but they had never despaired .
" But what of your good deeds ," the hermit asked ,--" what have you done for God ?"
" Very little ," they said , sadly , for they were too poor to give much .
To be sure , twice every year , when they killed a sheep for food , they gave half to their poorer neighbours .
" That is very good , very faithful ," the hermit said .
" And is there any other good deed you have done ?"
" Nothing ," said the older woman , " unless , unless -- it might be called a good deed ----" She looked at the younger woman , who smiled back at her .
" What ?"
said the hermit .
Still the woman hesitated ; but at last she said , timidly , " It is not much to tell , father , only this , that it is twenty years since my sister - in - law and I came to live together in the house ; we have brought up our families here ; and in all the twenty years there has never been a cross word between us , or a look that was less than kind ."
The hermit bent his head before the two women , and gave thanks in his heart .
" If my soul is as these ," he said , " I am blessed indeed ."
And suddenly a great light came into the hermit ' s mind , and he saw how many ways there are of serving God .
Some serve him in churches and in hermits ' cells , by praise and prayer ; some poor souls who have been very wicked turn from their wickedness with sorrow , and serve him with repentance ; some live faithfully and gently in humble homes , working , bringing up children , keeping kind and cheerful ; some bear pain patiently , for His sake .
Endless , endless ways there are , that only the Heavenly Father sees .
And so , as the hermit climbed the mountain again , he thought ,--
" As he saw the star - like glow Of light , in the cottage windows far , How many God ' s hidden servants are !"
LITTLE GOTTLIEB
Across the North Sea , in a country called Germany , lived a little boy named Gottlieb .
His father had died when he was but a baby , and although from early morning till late at night his mother sat plying her needle , she found it difficult indeed to provide food and clothing and shelter for her little boy and herself .
Gottlieb was not old enough to work , but he would often sit on a small stool at his mother ' s feet and dream about the wonderful things he would do for his dear mother when he grew to be a man , and she was comforted as she looked upon her boy , and the thought that she was working for him often gave strength to her tired fingers .
But one night Gottlieb saw that his mother was more than usually troubled .
Every now and then she would sigh , and a tear would trickle down her cheek .
The little boy had grown quick to read these signs of distress , and he thought , " Christmas will be here soon , and dear mother is thinking of what a sad time it will be ."
What would Gottlieb have given to be able to comfort his mother !
He could only sit and brood , while his young heart swelled and a lump rose in his throat at the thought that he could do nothing .
Presently , however , a happy fancy came to him .
Was not the Christ Child born on Christmas Day , and did not He send good gifts to men on His birthday ?
But then came the thought , " He will never find us .
Our home is so mean and small ."
It seemed foolish to hope , but a boy is not long cast down , and as Gottlieb sat dreaming , a happy inspiration came to him .
Stealing softly from the room he took paper and pen , for he had learnt to write , and spelt out , word after word , a letter which he addressed to the Christ Child .
You may be sure that the postman was puzzled what to do with this letter when he sorted it out of the heap in the letter - box .
Perhaps the Burgomaster would know the right thing to do ?
So the postman took the letter to the great burly man who lived in the big house and wore a gold chain round his neck .
The Burgomaster opened the envelope , and as he read the letter written in the trembling hand of a child , tears came into his eyes .
But he spoke gruffly enough to the postman , " This must be a foolish boy ; a small one , I have no doubt ."
Soon Christmas morning dawned , and Gottlieb woke very early .
But others were up before him , for , to his surprise , he saw a strange gentleman with his mother .
His wondering eyes soon perceived other unusual objects , for the hearth was piled with wood , and the table was loaded with food and dainties such as he had never even imagined .
Gottlieb entered the room just as his mother threw herself at the stranger ' s feet to bless him for his generous goodness to the widow and orphan .
" Nay , give me no thanks , worthy dame ," said the visitor .
" Rather be grateful to your little son , and to the good Lord to whom he wrote for aid ."
Then he turned to Gottlieb with a smile , " You see that although you wrote to the Christ Child , your prayer for aid came only to the Burgomaster .
The gifts you asked for are here , but they come from my hand ."
But Gottlieb answered him humbly , " Nay , sir , the Christ Child sent them , for He put the thought in your heart ."
HOW THE FIR TREE BECAME THE CHRISTMAS TREE
When you stand round the Christmas tree and look longingly at the toys hanging from the prickly branches , it does not occur to you to ask why it is always this particular tree that is so honoured at Christmas .
The dark green Fir looks so majestic when laden with bright toys and lit up by Christmas candles , that perhaps it is not easy to believe that it is the most modest of trees .
But so it is , and because of its humility it was chosen to bear Christmas gifts to the children .
This is the story :
When the Christ Child was born , all people , animals , trees , and other plants felt that a great happiness had come into the world .
And truly , the Heavenly Father had sent with the Holy Babe His blessings of Peace and Goodwill to all .
Every day people came to see the sweet Babe , bringing presents in their hands .
By the stable wherein lay the Christ Child stood three trees , and as the people came and went under their spreading branches , they thought that they , too , would like to give presents to the Child .
Said the Palm , " I will choose my biggest leaf and place it as a fan beside the manger to waft soft air to the Child ."
" And I ," said the Olive , " I will sprinkle sweet - smelling oil over Him ."
" What can I give to the Child ?"
asked the Fir .
" You ?"
said the others .
" You have nothing to offer .
Your needles would prick the wee Babe , and your tears are sticky ."
This made the poor Fir very unhappy indeed , and it said , sadly , " Yes , you are right .
I have nothing that would be good enough to offer to the Christ Child ."
Now , quite near to the trees had stood an Angel , who had heard all that had passed .
He was moved to pity the Fir , who was so lowly and without envy of the other trees , and he resolved to help it .
High in the dark of the heavens the stars were beginning to twinkle , and the Angel begged some of the little ones to come down and rest upon the branches of the Fir .
This they were glad to do , and their silvery light shone among the branches just like Christmas candles .
From where He lay the Christ Child could see the great dark evening world and the darker forms of the trees keeping watch , like faithful guardians , beside the open door of the stable ; and to its delight the Fir Tree saw the face of the Babe illumined with a heavenly smile as He looked upon the twinkling lights .
The Christ Child did not forget the lovely sight , and long afterward he bade that to celebrate His birthday there should be placed in every house a Fir Tree , which might be lit up with candles to shine for the children as the stars shone for Him on His first birthday .
Was not the Fir Tree richly rewarded for its meekness ?
Surely there is no other tree that shines on so many happy faces !
THE DIAMOND AND THE DEWDROP
A costly Diamond , that had once sparkled in a lady ' s ring , lay in a field amid tall grasses and oxeye daisies .
Just above it , was a big Dewdrop that clung timidly to a nodding grass - blade .
Overhead , the blazing sun shone in all his noonday glory .
Ever since the first pink blush of dawn , the modest Dewdrop had gazed fixedly down upon the rich gem , but feared to address a person of such exalted consequence .
At last , a large Beetle , during his rambles , chanced to espy the Diamond , and he also recognised him to be some one of great rank and importance .
" Sire ," he said , making a low bow , " permit your humble servant to offer you greeting ."
" Tha -- nks ," responded the Diamond in languid tones of affectation .
As the Beetle raised his head from his profound bow , his gaze happened to alight upon the Dewdrop .
" A relative of yours , I presume , Sire ?"
he remarked affably , waving one of his feelers in the direction of the Dewdrop .
The Diamond burst into a rude , contemptuous laugh .
" Quite _too_ absurd , I declare !"
he exclaimed loftily .
" But there , what _can_ you expect from a low , grovelling beetle ?
Away , sir , pass on !
Your very presence is distasteful to me .
The _idea_ of placing ME upon the same level -- in the same family , as a low - born , mean , insignificant , utterly valueless ----" Here the Diamond fairly choked for breath .
" But has he not beauty exactly like your own , Sire ?"
the Beetle ventured to interpose , though with a very timid air .
" BEAU -- TY !"
flashed the Diamond , with fine disdain --" the impudent fellow merely apes and imitates ME .
However , it is some small consolation to remember that ' Imitation is the sincerest flattery .'
But , even _allowing_ him to possess it , mere beauty without _rank_ is ridiculous and worthless .
A Boat without _water_ -- a Carriage , but no _horses_ -- a Well , but never a _winch_ : such is beauty without rank and wealth !
There is no _real worth_ apart from rank and wealth .
Combine Beauty , Rank , _and_ Wealth , and you have the whole world at your feet .
Now you know the secret of the world worshipping ME ."
And the Diamond sparkled and gleamed with vivid , violet flashes , so that the Beetle was glad to shade his eyes .
The poor Dewdrop had listened silently to all that had passed , and felt so wounded , that at last he wished he never had been born .
Slowly a bright tear fell and splashed the dust .
Just then , a Skylark fluttered to the ground and eagerly darted his beak at the Diamond .
" Alas !"
he piped , with a great sob of disappointment .
" What I thought to be a precious dewdrop is only a worthless diamond .
My throat is parched for want of water .
I must die of thirst !"
" Really ?
The world will never get over your loss ," cruelly sneered the Diamond .
But a sudden and noble resolve came to the Dewdrop .
Deeply did he repent his foolish wish .
_He could now lay down his life that the life of another might be saved ! _
" May _I_ help you , please ?"
he gently asked .
The Lark raised his drooping head .
" Oh , my precious , precious friend , if you will , you can save my life !"
" Open your mouth then ."
And the Dewdrop slid from the blade of grass , tumbled into the parched beak , and was eagerly swallowed .
" Ah -- well , well !"
pondered the Beetle as he continued his homeward way .
" I ' ve been taught a lesson that I shall not easily forget .
Yes , yes !
Simple worth is far better than rank or wealth without modesty and unselfishness -- and there is no _true_ beauty where these virtues are absent !"
[ The Adventures of Buster Bear by Thornton W . Burgess 1920 ]
I
BUSTER BEAR GOES FISHING
Buster Bear yawned as he lay on his comfortable bed of leaves and watched the first early morning sunbeams creeping through the Green Forest to chase out the Black Shadows .
Once more he yawned , and slowly got to his feet and shook himself .
Then he walked over to a big pine - tree , stood up on his hind legs , reached as high up on the trunk of the tree as he could , and scratched the bark with his great claws .
After that he yawned until it seemed as if his jaws would crack , and then sat down to think what he wanted for breakfast .
While he sat there , trying to make up his mind what would taste best , he was listening to the sounds that told of the waking of all the little people who live in the Green Forest .
He heard Sammy Jay way off in the distance screaming , " Thief !
Thief !"
and grinned .
" I wonder ," thought Buster , " if some one has stolen Sammy ' s breakfast , or if he has stolen the breakfast of some one else .
Probably he is the thief himself ."
He heard Chatterer the Red Squirrel scolding as fast as he could make his tongue go and working himself into a terrible rage .
" Must be that Chatterer got out of bed the wrong way this morning ," thought he .
He heard Blacky the Crow cawing at the top of his lungs , and he knew by the sound that Blacky was getting into mischief of some kind .
He heard the sweet voices of happy little singers , and they were good to hear .
But most of all he listened to a merry , low , silvery laugh that never stopped but went on and on , until he just felt as if he must laugh too .
It was the voice of the Laughing Brook .
And as Buster listened it suddenly came to him just what he wanted for breakfast .
" I ' m going fishing ," said he in his deep grumbly - rumbly voice to no one in particular .
" Yes , Sir , I ' m going fishing .
I want some fat trout for my breakfast ."
He shuffled along over to the Laughing Brook , and straight to a little pool of which he knew , and as he drew near he took the greatest care not to make the teeniest , weeniest bit of noise .
Now it just happened that early as he was , some one was before Buster Bear .
When he came in sight of the little pool , who should he see but another fisherman there , who had already caught a fine fat trout .
Who was it ?
Why , Little Joe Otter to be sure .
He was just climbing up the bank with the fat trout in his mouth .
Buster Bear ' s own mouth watered as he saw it .
Little Joe sat down on the bank and prepared to enjoy his breakfast .
He hadn ' t seen Buster Bear , and he didn ' t know that he or any one else was anywhere near .
Buster Bear tiptoed up very softly until he was right behind Little Joe Otter .
" Woof , woof !"
said he in his deepest , most grumbly - rumbly voice .
" That ' s a very fine looking trout .
I wouldn ' t mind if I had it myself ."
Little Joe Otter gave a frightened squeal and without even turning to see who was speaking dropped his fish and dived headfirst into the Laughing Brook .
Buster Bear sprang forward and with one of his big paws caught the fat trout just as it was slipping back into the water .
" Here ' s your trout , Mr .
Otter ," said he , as Little Joe put his head out of water to see who had frightened him so .
" Come and get it ."
[ Illustration : " Here ' s your trout , Mr .
Otter ," said he .
_Page 5 . _ ]
But Little Joe wouldn ' t .
The fact is , he was afraid to .
He snarled at Buster Bear and called him a thief and everything bad he could think of .
Buster didn ' t seem to mind .
He chuckled as if he thought it all a great joke and repeated his invitation to Little Joe to come and get his fish .
But Little Joe just turned his back and went off down the Laughing Brook in a great rage .
" It ' s too bad to waste such a fine fish ," said Buster thoughtfully .
" I wonder what I ' d better do with it ."
And while he was wondering , he ate it all up .
Then he started down the Laughing Brook to try to catch some for himself .
II
LITTLE JOE OTTER GETS EVEN WITH BUSTER BEAR
Little Joe Otter was in a terrible rage .
It was a bad beginning for a beautiful day and Little Joe knew it .
But who wouldn ' t be in a rage if his breakfast was taken from him just as he was about to eat it ?
Anyway , that is what Little Joe told Billy Mink .
Perhaps he didn ' t tell it quite exactly as it was , but you know he was very badly frightened at the time .
" I was sitting on the bank of the Laughing Brook beside one of the little pools ," he told Billy Mink , " and was just going to eat a fat trout I had caught , when who should come along but that great big bully , Buster Bear .
He took that fat trout away from me and ate it just as if it belonged to him !
I hate him !
If I live long enough I ' m going to get even with him !"
Of course that wasn ' t nice talk and anything but a nice spirit , but Little Joe Otter ' s temper is sometimes pretty short , especially when he is hungry , and this time he had had no breakfast , you know .
Buster Bear hadn ' t actually taken the fish away from Little Joe .
But looking at the matter as Little Joe did , it amounted to the same thing .
You see , Buster knew perfectly well when he invited Little Joe to come back and get it that Little Joe wouldn ' t dare do anything of the kind .
" Where is he now ?"
asked Billy Mink .
" He ' s somewhere up the Laughing Brook .
I wish he ' d fall in and get drowned !"
snapped Little Joe .
Billy Mink just had to laugh .
The idea of great big Buster Bear getting drowned in the Laughing Brook was too funny .
There wasn ' t water enough in it anywhere except down in the Smiling Pool , and that was on the Green Meadows , where Buster had never been known to go .
" Let ' s go see what he is doing ," said Billy Mink .
At first Little Joe didn ' t want to , but at last his curiosity got the better of his fear , and he agreed .
So the two little brown - coated scamps turned down the Laughing Brook , taking the greatest care to keep out of sight themselves .
They had gone only a little way when Billy Mink whispered : " Sh - h !
There he is ."
Sure enough , there was Buster Bear sitting close beside a little pool and looking into it very intently .
" What ' s he doing ?"
asked Little Joe Otter , as Buster Bear sat for the longest time without moving .
Just then one of Buster ' s big paws went into the water as quick as a flash and scooped out a trout that had ventured too near .
" He ' s fishing !"
exclaimed Billy Mink .
And that is just what Buster Bear was doing , and it was very plain to see that he was having great fun .
When he had eaten the trout he had caught , he moved along to the next little pool .
" They are _our_ fish !"
said Little Joe fiercely .
" He has no business catching _our_ fish !"
" I don ' t see how we are going to stop him ," said Billy Mink .
" I do !"
cried Little Joe , into whose head an idea had just popped .
" I ' m going to drive all the fish out of the little pools and muddy the water all up .
Then we ' ll see how many fish he will get !
Just you watch me get even with Buster Bear ."
Little Joe slipped swiftly into the water and swam straight to the little pool that Buster Bear would try next .
He frightened the fish so that they fled in every direction .
Then he stirred up the mud until the water was so dirty that Buster couldn ' t have seen a fish right under his nose .
He did the same thing in the next pool and the next .
Buster Bear ' s fishing was spoiled for that day .
III
BUSTER BEAR IS GREATLY PUZZLED
Buster Bear hadn ' t enjoyed himself so much since he came to the Green Forest to live .
His fun began when he surprised Little Joe Otter on the bank of a little pool in the Laughing Brook and Little Joe was so frightened that he dropped a fat trout he had just caught .
It had seemed like a great joke to Buster Bear , and he had chuckled over it all the time he was eating the fat trout .
When he had finished it , he started on to do some fishing himself .
Presently he came to another little pool .
He stole up to it very , very softly , so as not to frighten the fish .
Then he sat down close to the edge of it and didn ' t move .
Buster learned a long time ago that a fisherman must be patient unless , like Little Joe Otter , he is just as much at home in the water as the fish themselves , and can swim fast enough to catch them by chasing them .
So he didn ' t move so much as an eye lash .
He was so still that he looked almost like the stump of an old tree .
Perhaps that is what the fish thought he was , for pretty soon , two or three swam right in close to where he was sitting .
Now Buster Bear may be big and clumsy looking , but there isn ' t anything that can move much quicker than one of those big paws of his when he wants it to .
One of them moved now , and quicker than a wink had scooped one of those foolish fish out on to the bank .
Buster ' s little eyes twinkled , and he smacked his lips as he moved on to the next little pool , for he knew that it was of no use to stay longer at the first one .
The fish were so frightened that they wouldn ' t come back for a long , long time .
At the next little pool the same thing happened .
By this time Buster Bear was in fine spirits .
It was fun to catch the fish , and it was still more fun to eat them .
What finer breakfast could any one have than fresh - caught trout ?
No wonder he felt good !
But it takes more than three trout to fill Buster Bear ' s stomach , so he kept on to the next little pool .
But this little pool , instead of being beautiful and clear so that Buster could see right to the bottom of it and so tell if there were any fish there , was so muddy that he couldn ' t see into it at all .
It looked as if some one had just stirred up all the mud at the bottom .
" Huh !"
said Buster Bear .
" It ' s of no use to try to fish here .
I would just waste my time .
I ' ll try the next pool ."
So he went on to the next little pool .
He found this just as muddy as the other .
Then he went on to another , and this was no better .
Buster sat down and scratched his head .
It was puzzling .
Yes , Sir , it was puzzling .
He looked this way and he looked that way suspiciously , but there was no one to be seen .
Everything was still save for the laughter of the Laughing Brook .
Somehow , it seemed to Buster as if the Brook were laughing at him .
" It ' s very curious ," muttered Buster , " very curious indeed .
It looks as if my fishing is spoiled for to - day .
I don ' t understand it at all .
It ' s lucky I caught what I did .
It looks as if somebody is trying to -- ha !"
A sudden thought had popped into his head .
Then he began to chuckle and finally to laugh .
" I do believe that scamp Joe Otter is trying to get even with me for eating that fat trout !"
And then , because Buster Bear always enjoys a good joke even when it is on himself , he laughed until he had to hold his sides , which is a whole lot better than going off in a rage as Little Joe Otter had done .
" You ' re pretty smart , Mr .
Otter !
You ' re pretty smart , but there are other people who are smart too ," said Buster Bear , and still chuckling , he went off to think up a plan to get the best of Little Joe Otter .
IV
LITTLE JOE OTTER SUPPLIES BUSTER BEAR WITH A BREAKFAST
Getting even just for spite Doesn ' t always pay .
Fact is , it is very apt To work the other way .
That is just how it came about that Little Joe Otter furnished Buster Bear with the best breakfast he had had for a long time .
He didn ' t mean to do it .
Oh , my , no !
The truth is , he thought all the time that he was preventing Buster Bear from getting a breakfast .
You see he wasn ' t well enough acquainted with Buster to know that Buster is quite as smart as he is , and perhaps a little bit smarter .
Spite and selfishness were at the bottom of it .
You see Little Joe and Billy Mink had had all the fishing in the Laughing Brook to themselves so long that they thought no one else had any right to fish there .
To be sure Bobby Coon caught a few little fish there , but they didn ' t mind Bobby .
Farmer Brown ' s boy fished there too , sometimes , and this always made Little Joe and Billy Mink very angry , but they were so afraid of him that they didn ' t dare do anything about it .
But when they discovered that Buster Bear was a fisherman , they made up their minds that something had got to be done .
At least , Little Joe did .
" He ' ll try it again to - morrow morning ," said Little Joe .
" I ' ll keep watch , and as soon as I see him coming , I ' ll drive out all the fish , just as I did to - day .
I guess that ' ll teach him to let our fish alone ."
So the next morning Little Joe hid before daylight close by the little pool where Buster Bear had given him such a fright .
Sure enough , just as the Jolly Sunbeams began to creep through the Green Forest , he saw Buster Bear coming straight over to the little pool .
Little Joe slipped into the water and chased all the fish out of the little pool , and stirred up the mud on the bottom so that the water was so muddy that the bottom couldn ' t be seen at all .
Then he hurried down to the next little pool and did the same thing .
Now Buster Bear is very smart .
You know he had guessed the day before who had spoiled his fishing .
So this morning he only went far enough to make sure that if Little Joe were watching for him , as he was sure he would be , he would see him coming .
Then , instead of keeping on to the little pool , he hurried to a place way down the Laughing Brook , where the water was very shallow , hardly over his feet , and there he sat chuckling to himself .
Things happened just as he had expected .
The frightened fish Little Joe chased out of the little pools up above swam down the Laughing Brook , because , you know , Little Joe was behind them , and there was nowhere else for them to go .
When they came to the place where Buster was waiting , all he had to do was to scoop them out on to the bank .
It was great fun .
It didn ' t take Buster long to catch all the fish he could eat .
Then he saved a nice fat trout and waited .
By and by along came Little Joe Otter , chuckling to think how he had spoiled Buster Bear ' s fishing .
He was so intent on looking behind him to see if Buster was coming that he didn ' t see Buster waiting there until he spoke .
" I ' m much obliged for the fine breakfast you have given me ," said Buster in his deepest , most grumbly - rumbly voice .
" I ' ve saved a fat trout for you to make up for the one I ate yesterday .
I hope we ' ll go fishing together often ."
Then he went off laughing fit to kill himself .
Little Joe couldn ' t find a word to say .
He was so surprised and angry that he went off by himself and sulked .
And Billy Mink , who had been watching , ate the fat trout .
V
GRANDFATHER FROG ' S COMMON - SENSE
There is nothing quite like common sense to smooth out troubles .
People who have plenty of just plain common sense are often thought to be very wise .
Their neighbors look up to them and are forever running to them for advice , and they are very much respected .
That is the way with Grandfather Frog .
He is very old and very wise .
Anyway , that is what his neighbors think .
The truth is , he simply has a lot of common sense , which after all is the very best kind of wisdom .
Now when Little Joe Otter found that Buster Bear had been too smart for him and that instead of spoiling Buster ' s fishing in the Laughing Brook he had really made it easier for Buster to catch all the fish he wanted , Little Joe went off down to the Smiling Pool in a great rage .
Billy Mink stopped long enough to eat the fat fish Buster had left on the bank and then he too went down to the Smiling Pool .
When Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink reached the Smiling Pool , they climbed up on the Big Rock , and there Little Joe sulked and sulked , until finally Grandfather Frog asked what the matter was .
Little Joe wouldn ' t tell , but Billy Mink told the whole story .
When he told how Buster had been too smart for Little Joe , it tickled him so that Billy had to laugh in spite of himself .
So did Grandfather Frog .
So did Jerry Muskrat , who had been listening .
Of course this made Little Joe angrier than ever .
He said a lot of unkind things about Buster Bear and about Billy Mink and Grandfather Frog and Jerry Muskrat , because they had laughed at the smartness of Buster .
" He ' s nothing but a great big bully and thief !"
declared Little Joe .
" Chug - a - rum !
He may be a bully , because great big people are very apt to be bullies , and though I haven ' t seen him , I guess Buster Bear is big enough from all I have heard , but I don ' t see how he is a thief ," said Grandfather Frog .
" Didn ' t he catch my fish and eat them ?"
snapped Little Joe .
" Doesn ' t that make him a thief ?"
" They were no more your fish than mine ," protested Billy Mink .
" Well , _our_ fish , then !
He stole _our_ fish , if you like that any better .
That makes him just as much a thief , doesn ' t it ?"
growled Little Joe .
Grandfather Frog looked up at jolly , round , bright Mr . Sun and slowly winked one of his great , goggly eyes .
" There comes a foolish green fly ," said he .
" Who does he belong to ?"
" Nobody !"
snapped Little Joe .
" What have foolish green flies got to do with my -- I mean _our_ fish ?"
" Nothing , nothing at all ," replied Grandfather Frog mildly .
" I was just hoping that he would come near enough for me to snap him up ; then he would belong to me .
As long as he doesn ' t , he doesn ' t belong to any one .
I suppose that if Buster Bear should happen along and catch him , he would be stealing from me , according to Little Joe ."
" Of course not !
What a silly idea !
You ' re getting foolish in your old age ," retorted Little Joe .
" Can you tell me the difference between the fish that you haven ' t caught and the foolish green flies that I haven ' t caught ?"
asked Grandfather Frog .
Little Joe couldn ' t find a word to say .
" You take my advice , Little Joe Otter ," continued Grandfather Frog , " and always make friends with those who are bigger and stronger and smarter than you are .
You ' ll find it pays ."
[ Illustration : " You take my advice , Little Joe Otter ," continued Grandfather Frog .
_Page 26 . _ ]
VI
LITTLE JOE OTTER TAKES GRANDFATHER FROG ' S ADVICE
Who makes an enemy a friend , To fear and worry puts an end .
Little Joe Otter found that out when he took Grandfather Frog ' s advice .
He wouldn ' t have admitted that he was afraid of Buster Bear .
No one ever likes to admit being afraid , least of all Little Joe Otter .
And really Little Joe has a great deal of courage .
Very few of the little people of the Green Forest or the Green Meadows would willingly quarrel with him , for Little Joe is a great fighter when he has to fight .
As for all those who live in or along the Laughing Brook or in the Smiling Pool , they let Little Joe have his own way in everything .
Now having one ' s own way too much is a bad thing .
It is apt to make one selfish and thoughtless of other people and very hard to get along with .
Little Joe Otter had his way too much .
Grandfather Frog knew it and shook his head very soberly when Little Joe had been disrespectful to him .
" Too bad .
Too bad !
Too bad !
Chug - a - rum !
It is too bad that such a fine young fellow as Little Joe should spoil a good disposition by such selfish heedlessness .
Too bad ," said he .
So , though he didn ' t let on that it was so , Grandfather Frog really was delighted when he heard how Buster Bear had been too smart for Little Joe Otter .
It tickled him so that he had hard work to keep a straight face .
But he did and was as grave and solemn as you please as he advised Little Joe always to make friends with any one who was bigger and stronger and smarter than he .
That was good common sense advice , but Little Joe just sniffed and went off declaring that he would get even with Buster Bear yet .
Now Little Joe is good - natured and full of fun as a rule , and after he had reached home and his temper had cooled off a little , he began to see the joke on himself ,-- how when he had worked so hard to frighten the fish in the little pools of the Laughing Brook so that Buster Bear should not catch any , he had all the time been driving them right into Buster ' s paws .
By and by he grinned .
It was a little sheepish grin at first , but at last it grew into a laugh .
" I believe ," said Little Joe as he wiped tears of laughter from his eyes , " that Grandfather Frog is right , and that the best thing I can do is to make friends with Buster Bear .
I ' ll try it to - morrow morning ."
So very early the next morning Little Joe Otter went to the best fishing pool he knew of in the Laughing Brook , and there he caught the biggest trout he could find .
It was so big and fat that it made Little Joe ' s mouth water , for you know fat trout are his favorite food .
But he didn ' t take so much as one bite .
Instead he carefully laid it on an old log where Buster Bear would be sure to see it if he should come along that way .
Then he hid near by , where he could watch .
Buster was late that morning .
It seemed to Little Joe that he never would come .
Once he nearly lost the fish .
He had turned his head for just a minute , and when he looked back again , the trout was nowhere to be seen .
Buster couldn ' t have stolen up and taken it , because such a big fellow couldn ' t possibly have gotten out of sight again .
Little Joe darted over to the log and looked on the other side .
There was the fat trout , and there also was Little Joe ' s smallest cousin , Shadow the Weasel , who is a great thief and altogether bad .
Little Joe sprang at him angrily , but Shadow was too quick and darted away .
Little Joe put the fish back on the log and waited .
This time he didn ' t take his eyes off it .
At last , when he was almost ready to give up , he saw Buster Bear shuffling along towards the Laughing Brook .
Suddenly Buster stopped and sniffed .
One of the Merry Little Breezes had carried the scent of that fat trout over to him .
Then he came straight over to where the fish lay , his nose wrinkling , and his eyes twinkling with pleasure .
" Now I wonder who was so thoughtful as to leave this fine breakfast ready for me ," said he out loud .
" Me ," said Little Joe in a rather faint voice .
" I caught it especially for you ."
" Thank you ," replied Buster , and his eyes twinkled more than ever .
" I think we are going to be friends ."
" I -- I hope so ," replied Little Joe .
VII
FARMER BROWN ' S BOY HAS NO LUCK AT ALL
Farmer Brown ' s boy tramped through the Green Forest , whistling merrily .
He always whistles when he feels light - hearted , and he always feels light - hearted when he goes fishing .
You see , he is just as fond of fishing as is Little Joe Otter or Billy Mink or Buster Bear .
And now he was making his way through the Green Forest to the Laughing Brook , sure that by the time he had followed it down to the Smiling Pool he would have a fine lot of trout to take home .
He knew every pool in the Laughing Brook where the trout love to hide , did Farmer Brown ' s boy , and it was just the kind of a morning when the trout should be hungry .
So he whistled as he tramped along , and his whistle was good to hear .
When he reached the first little pool he baited his hook very carefully and then , taking the greatest care to keep out of sight of any trout that might be in the little pool , he began to fish .
Now Farmer Brown ' s boy learned a long time ago that to be a successful fisherman one must have a great deal of patience , so though he didn ' t get a bite right away as he had expected to , he wasn ' t the least bit discouraged .
He kept very quiet and fished and fished , patiently waiting for a foolish trout to take his hook .
But he didn ' t get so much as a nibble .
" Either the trout have lost their appetite or they have grown very wise ," muttered Farmer Brown ' s boy , as after a long time he moved on to the next little pool .
There the same thing happened .
He was very patient , very , very patient , but his patience brought no reward , not so much as the faintest kind of a nibble .
Farmer Brown ' s boy trudged on to the next pool , and there was a puzzled frown on his freckled face .
Such a thing never had happened before .
He didn ' t know what to make of it .
All the night before he had dreamed about the delicious dinner of fried trout he would have the next day , and now -- well , if he didn ' t catch some trout pretty soon , that splendid dinner would never be anything but a dream .
" If I didn ' t know that nobody else comes fishing here , I should think that somebody had been here this very morning and caught all the fish or else frightened them so that they are all in hiding ," said he , as he trudged on to the next little pool .
" I never had such bad luck in all my life before .
Hello !
What ' s this ?"
There , on the bank beside the little pool , were the heads of three trout .
Farmer Brown ' s boy scowled down at them more puzzled than ever .
" Somebody _has_ been fishing here , and they have had better luck than I have ," thought he .
He looked up the Laughing Brook and down the Laughing Brook and this way and that way , but no one was to be seen .
Then he picked up one of the little heads and looked at it sharply .
" It wasn ' t cut off with a knife ; it was bitten off !"
he exclaimed .
" I wonder now if Billy Mink is the scamp who has spoiled my fun ."
Thereafter he kept a sharp lookout for signs of Billy Mink , but though he found two or three more trout heads , he saw no other signs and he caught no fish .
This puzzled him more than ever .
It didn ' t seem possible that such a little fellow as Billy Mink could have caught or frightened all the fish or have eaten so many .
Besides , he didn ' t remember ever having known Billy to leave heads around that way .
Billy sometimes catches more fish than he can eat , but then he usually hides them .
The farther he went down the Laughing Brook , the more puzzled Farmer Brown ' s boy grew .
It made him feel very queer .
He would have felt still more queer if he had known that all the time two other fishermen who had been before him were watching him and chuckling to themselves .
They were Little Joe Otter and Buster Bear .
VIII
FARMER BROWN ' S BOY FEELS HIS HAIR RISE
' Twas just a sudden odd surprise Made Farmer Brown ' s boy ' s hair to rise .
That ' s a funny thing for hair to do -- rise up all of a sudden -- isn ' t it ?
But that is just what the hair on Farmer Brown ' s boy ' s head did the day he went fishing in the Laughing Brook and had no luck at all .
There are just two things that make hair rise -- anger and fear .
Anger sometimes makes the hair on the back and neck of Bowser the Hound and of some other little people bristle and stand up , and you know the hair on the tail of Black Pussy stands on end until her tail looks twice as big as it really is .
Both anger and fear make it do that .
But there is only one thing that can make the hair on the head of Farmer Brown ' s boy rise , and as it isn ' t anger , of course it must be fear .
It never had happened before .
You see , there isn ' t much of anything that Farmer Brown ' s boy is really afraid of .
Perhaps he wouldn ' t have been afraid this time if it hadn ' t been for the surprise of what he found .
You see when he had found the heads of those trout on the bank he knew right away that some one else had been fishing , and that was why he couldn ' t catch any ; but it didn ' t seem possible that little Billy Mink could have eaten all those trout , and Farmer Brown ' s boy didn ' t once think of Little Joe Otter , and so he was very , very much puzzled .
He was turning it all over in his mind and studying what it could mean , when he came to a little muddy place on the bank of the Laughing Brook , and there he saw something that made his eyes look as if they would pop right out of his head , and it was right then that he felt his hair rise .
Anyway , that is what he said when he told about it afterward .
What was it he saw ?
What do you think ?
Why , it was a footprint in the soft mud .
Yes , Sir , that ' s what it was , and all it was .
But it was the biggest footprint Farmer Brown ' s boy ever had seen , and it looked as if it had been made only a few minutes before .
It was the footprint of Buster Bear .
Now Farmer Brown ' s boy didn ' t know that Buster Bear had come down to the Green Forest to live .
He never had heard of a Bear being in the Green Forest .
And so he was so surprised that he had hard work to believe his own eyes , and he had a queer feeling all over ,-- a little chilly feeling , although it was a warm day .
Somehow , he didn ' t feel like meeting Buster Bear .
If he had had his terrible gun with him , it might have been different .
But he didn ' t , and so he suddenly made up his mind that he didn ' t want to fish any more that day .
He had a funny feeling , too , that he was being watched , although he couldn ' t see any one .
He _was_ being watched .
Little Joe Otter and Buster Bear were watching him and taking the greatest care to keep out of his sight .
All the way home through the Green Forest , Farmer Brown ' s boy kept looking behind him , and he didn ' t draw a long breath until he reached the edge of the Green Forest .
He hadn ' t run , but he had wanted to .
" Huh !"
said Buster Bear to Little Joe Otter , " I believe he was afraid !"
And Buster Bear was just exactly right .
IX
LITTLE JOE OTTER HAS GREAT NEWS TO TELL
Little Joe Otter was fairly bursting with excitement .
He could hardly contain himself .
He felt that he had the greatest news to tell since Peter Rabbit had first found the tracks of Buster Bear in the Green Forest .
He couldn ' t keep it to himself a minute longer than he had to .
So he hurried to the Smiling Pool , where he was sure he would find Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle , and he hoped that perhaps some of the little people who live in the Green Forest might be there too .
Sure enough , Peter Rabbit was there on one side of the Smiling Pool , making faces at Reddy Fox , who was on the other side , which , of course , was not at all nice of Peter .
Mr . and Mrs . Redwing were there , and Blacky the Crow was sitting in the Big Hickory - tree .
Little Joe Otter swam straight to the Big Rock and climbed up to the very highest part .
He looked so excited , and his eyes sparkled so , that every one knew right away that something had happened .
" Hi !"
cried Billy Mink .
" Look at Little Joe Otter !
It must be that for once he has been smarter than Buster Bear ."
Little Joe made a good - natured face at Billy Mink and shook his head .
" No , Billy ," said he , " you are wrong , altogether wrong .
I don ' t believe anybody can be smarter than Buster Bear ."
[ Illustration : Reddy glared across the Smiling Pool at Peter .
_Page 45 . _ ]
Reddy Fox rolled his lips back in an unpleasant grin .
" Don ' t be too sure of that !"
he snapped .
" I ' m not through with him yet ."
" Boaster !
Boaster !"
cried Peter Rabbit .
Reddy glared across the Smiling Pool at Peter .
" I ' m not through with you either , Peter Rabbit !"
he snarled .
" You ' ll find it out one of these fine days !"
" Reddy , Reddy , smart and sly , Couldn ' t catch a buzzing fly !"
taunted Peter .
" Chug - a - rum !"
said Grandfather Frog in his deepest , gruffest voice .
" We know all about that .
What we want to know is what Little Joe Otter has got on his mind ."
" It ' s news -- great news !"
cried Little Joe .
" We can tell better how great it is when we hear what it is ," replied Grandfather Frog testily .
" What is it ?"
Little Joe Otter looked around at all the eager faces watching him , and then in the slowest , most provoking way , he drawled : " Farmer Brown ' s boy is afraid of Buster Bear ."
For a minute no one said a word .
Then Blacky the Crow leaned down from his perch in the Big Hickory - tree and looked very hard at Little Joe as he said :
" I don ' t believe it .
I don ' t believe a word of it .
Farmer Brown ' s boy isn ' t afraid of any one who lives in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows or in the Smiling Pool , and you know it .
We are all afraid of him ."
Little Joe glared back at Blacky .
" I don ' t care whether you believe it or not ; it ' s true ," he retorted .
Then he told how early that very morning he and Buster Bear had been fishing together in the Laughing Brook , and how Farmer Brown ' s boy had been fishing there too , and hadn ' t caught a single trout because they had all been caught or frightened before he got there .
Then he told how Farmer Brown ' s boy had found a footprint of Buster Bear in the soft mud , and how he had stopped fishing right away and started for home , looking behind him with fear in his eyes all the way .
" Now tell me that he isn ' t afraid !"
concluded Little Joe .
" For once he knows just how we feel when he comes prowling around where we are .
Isn ' t that great news ?
Now we ' ll get even with _him_ !"
" I ' ll believe it when I see it for myself !"
snapped Blacky the Crow .
X
BUSTER BEAR BECOMES A HERO
The news that Little Joe Otter told at the Smiling Pool ,-- how Farmer Brown ' s boy had run away from Buster Bear without even seeing him ,-- soon spread all over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , until every one who lives there knew about it .
Of course , Peter Rabbit helped spread it .
Trust Peter for that !
But everybody else helped too .
You see , they had all been afraid of Farmer Brown ' s boy for so long that they were tickled almost to pieces at the very thought of having some one in the Green Forest who could make Farmer Brown ' s boy feel fear as they had felt it .
And so it was that Buster Bear became a hero right away to most of them .
A few doubted Little Joe ' s story .
One of them was Blacky the Crow .
Another was Reddy Fox .
Blacky doubted because he knew Farmer Brown ' s boy so well that he couldn ' t imagine him afraid .
Reddy doubted because he didn ' t want to believe .
You see , he was jealous of Buster Bear , and at the same time he was afraid of him .
So Reddy pretended not to believe a word of what Little Joe Otter had said , and he agreed with Blacky that only by seeing Farmer Brown ' s boy afraid could he ever be made to believe it .
But nearly everybody else believed it , and there was great rejoicing .
Most of them were afraid of Buster , very much afraid of him , because he was so big and strong .
But they were still more afraid of Farmer Brown ' s boy , because they didn ' t know him or understand him , and because in the past he had tried to catch some of them in traps and had hunted some of them with his terrible gun .
So now they were very proud to think that one of their own number actually had frightened him , and they began to look on Buster Bear as a real hero .
They tried in ever so many ways to show him how friendly they felt and went quite out of their way to do him favors .
Whenever they met one another , all they could talk about was the smartness and the greatness of Buster Bear .
" Now I guess Farmer Brown ' s boy will keep away from the Green Forest , and we won ' t have to be all the time watching out for him ," said Bobby Coon , as he washed his dinner in the Laughing Brook , for you know he is very neat and particular .
" And he won ' t dare set any more traps for me ," gloated Billy Mink .
" Ah wish Brer Bear would go up to Farmer Brown ' s henhouse and scare Farmer Brown ' s boy so that he would keep away from there .
It would be a favor to me which Ah cert ' nly would appreciate ," said Unc ' Billy Possum when he heard the news .
" Let ' s all go together and tell Buster Bear how much obliged we are for what he has done ," proposed Jerry Muskrat .
" That ' s a splendid idea !"
cried Little Joe Otter .
" We ' ll do it right away ."
" Caw , caw caw !"
broke in Blacky the Crow .
" I say , let ' s wait and see for ourselves if it is all true ."
" Of course it ' s true !"
snapped Little Joe Otter .
" Don ' t you believe I ' m telling the truth ?"
" Certainly , certainly .
Of course no one doubts your word ," replied Blacky , with the utmost politeness .
" But you say yourself that Farmer Brown ' s boy didn ' t see Buster Bear , but only his footprint .
Perhaps he didn ' t know whose it was , and if he had he wouldn ' t have been afraid .
Now I ' ve got a plan by which we can see for ourselves if he really is afraid of Buster Bear ."
" What is it ?"
asked Sammy Jay eagerly .
Blacky the Crow shook his head and winked .
" That ' s telling ," said he .
" I want to think it over .
If you meet me at the Big Hickory - tree at sun - up to - morrow morning , and get everybody else to come that you can , perhaps I will tell you ."
XI
BLACKY THE CROW TELLS HIS PLAN
Blacky is a dreamer !
Blacky is a schemer !
His voice is strong ; When things go wrong Blacky is a screamer !
It ' s a fact .
Blacky the Crow is forever dreaming and scheming and almost always it is of mischief .
He is one of the smartest and cleverest of all the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , and all the others know it .
Blacky likes excitement .
He wants something going on .
The more exciting it is , the better he likes it .
Then he has a chance to use that harsh voice of his , and how he does use it !
So now , as he sat in the top of the Big Hickory - tree beside the Smiling Pool and looked down on all the little people gathered there , he was very happy .
In the first place he felt very important , and you know Blacky dearly loves to feel important .
They had all come at his invitation to listen to a plan for seeing for themselves if it were really true that Farmer Brown ' s boy was afraid of Buster Bear .
On the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool sat Little Joe Otter , Billy Mink , and Jerry Muskrat .
On his big , green lily - pad sat Grandfather Frog .
On another lily - pad sat Spotty the Turtle .
On the bank on one side of the Smiling Pool were Peter Rabbit , Jumper the Hare , Danny Meadow Mouse , Johnny Chuck , Jimmy Skunk , Unc ' Billy Possum , Striped Chipmunk and Old Mr . Toad .
On the other side of the Smiling Pool were Reddy Fox , Digger the Badger , and Bobby Coon .
In the Big Hickory - tree were Chatterer the Red Squirrel , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , and Sammy Jay .
Blacky waited until he was sure that no one else was coming .
Then he cleared his throat very loudly and began to speak .
" Friends ," said he .
Everybody grinned , for Blacky has played so many sharp tricks that no one is really his friend unless it is that other mischief - maker , Sammy Jay , who , you know , is Blacky ' s cousin .
But no one said anything , and Blacky went on .
" Little Joe Otter has told us how he saw Farmer Brown ' s boy hurry home when he found the footprint of Buster Bear on the edge of the Laughing Brook , and how all the way he kept looking behind him , as if he were afraid .
Perhaps he was , and then again perhaps he wasn ' t .
Perhaps he had something else on his mind .
You have made a hero of Buster Bear , because you believe Little Joe ' s story .
Now I don ' t say that I don ' t believe it , but I do say that I will be a lot more sure that Farmer Brown ' s boy is afraid of Buster when I see him run away myself .
Now here is my plan :
" To - morrow morning , very early , Sammy Jay and I will make a great fuss near the edge of the Green Forest .
Farmer Brown ' s boy has a lot of curiosity , and he will be sure to come over to see what it is all about .
Then we will lead him to where Buster Bear is .
If he runs away , I will be the first to admit that Buster Bear is as great a hero as some of you seem to think he is .
It is a very simple plan , and if you will all hide where you can watch , you will be able to see for yourselves if Little Joe Otter is right .
Now what do you say ?"
Right away everybody began to talk at the same time .
It was such a simple plan that everybody agreed to it .
And it promised to be so exciting that everybody promised to be there , that is , everybody but Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle , who didn ' t care to go so far away from the Smiling Pool .
So it was agreed that Blacky should try his plan the very next morning .
XII
FARMER BROWN ' S BOY AND BUSTER BEAR GROW CURIOUS
Ever since it was light enough to see at all , Blacky the Crow had been sitting in the top of the tallest tree on the edge of the Green Forest nearest to Farmer Brown ' s house , and never for an instant had he taken his eyes from Farmer Brown ' s back door .
What was he watching for ?
Why , for Farmer Brown ' s boy to come out on his way to milk the cows .
Meanwhile , Sammy Jay was slipping silently through the Green Forest , looking for Buster Bear , so that when the time came he could let his cousin , Blacky the Crow , know just where Buster was .
By and by the back door of Farmer Brown ' s house opened , and out stepped Farmer Brown ' s boy .
In each hand he carried a milk pail .
Right away Blacky began to scream at the top of his lungs .
" Caw , caw , caw !"
shouted Blacky .
" Caw , caw , caw !"
And all the time he flew about among the trees near the edge of the Green Forest as if so excited that he couldn ' t keep still .
Farmer Brown ' s boy looked over there as if he wondered what all that fuss was about , as indeed he did , but he didn ' t start to go over and see .
No , Sir , he started straight for the barn .
Blacky didn ' t know what to make of it .
You see , smart as he is and shrewd as he is , Blacky doesn ' t know anything about the meaning of duty , for he never has to work excepting to get enough to eat .
So , when Farmer Brown ' s boy started for the barn instead of for the Green Forest , Blacky didn ' t know what to make of it .
He screamed harder and louder than ever , until his voice grew so hoarse he couldn ' t scream any more , but Farmer Brown ' s boy kept right on to the barn .
" I ' d like to know what you ' re making such a fuss about , Mr . Crow , but I ' ve got to feed the cows and milk them first ," said he .
Now all this time the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows had been hiding where they could see all that went on .
When Farmer Brown ' s boy disappeared in the barn , Chatterer the Red Squirrel snickered right out loud .
" Ha , ha , ha !
This is a great plan of yours , Blacky !
Ha , ha , ha !"
he shouted .
Blacky couldn ' t find a word to say .
He just hung his head , which is something Blacky seldom does .
" Perhaps if we wait until he comes out again , he will come over here ," said Sammy Jay , who had joined Blacky .
So it was decided to wait .
It seemed as if Farmer Brown ' s boy never would come out , but at last he did .
Blacky and Sammy Jay at once began to scream and make all the fuss they could .
Farmer Brown ' s boy took the two pails of milk into the house , then out he came and started straight for the Green Forest .
He was so curious to know what it all meant that he couldn ' t wait another minute .
Now there was some one else with a great deal of curiosity also .
He had heard the screaming of Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay , and he had listened until he couldn ' t stand it another minute .
He just _had_ to know what it was all about .
So at the same time Farmer Brown ' s boy started for the Green Forest , this other listener started towards the place where Blacky and Sammy were making such a racket .
He walked very softly so as not to make a sound .
It was Buster Bear .
XIII
FARMER BROWN ' S BOY AND BUSTER BEAR MEET
If you should meet with Buster Bear While walking through the wood , What would you do ?
Now tell me true , _I ' d_ run the best I could .
That is what Farmer Brown ' s boy did when he met Buster Bear , and a lot of the little people of the Green Forest and some from the Green Meadows saw him .
When Farmer Brown ' s boy came hurrying home from the Laughing Brook without any fish one day and told about the great footprint he had seen in a muddy place on the bank deep in the Green Forest , and had said his was sure that it was the footprint of a Bear , he had been laughed at .
Farmer Brown had laughed and laughed .
" Why ," said he , " there hasn ' t been a Bear in the Green Forest for years and years and years , not since my own grandfather was a little boy , and that , you know , was a long , long , long time ago .
If you want to find Mr . Bear , you will have to go to the Great Woods .
I don ' t know who made that footprint , but it certainly couldn ' t have been a Bear .
I think you must have imagined it ."
Then he had laughed some more , all of which goes to show how easy it is to be mistaken , and how foolish it is to laugh at things you really don ' t know about .
Buster Bear _had_ come to live in the Green Forest , and Farmer Brown ' s boy _had_ seen his footprint .
But Farmer Brown laughed so much and made fun of him so much , that at last his boy began to think that he must have been mistaken after all .
So when he heard Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay making a great fuss near the edge of the Green Forest , he never once thought of Buster Bear , as he started over to see what was going on .
When Blacky and Sammy saw him coming , they moved a little farther in to the Green Forest , still screaming in the most excited way .
They felt sure that Farmer Brown ' s boy would follow them , and they meant to lead him to where Sammy had seen Buster Bear that morning .
Then they would find out for sure if what Little Joe Otter had said was true ,-- that Farmer Brown ' s boy really was afraid of Buster Bear .
Now all around , behind trees and stumps , and under thick branches , and even in tree tops , were other little people watching with round , wide - open eyes to see what would happen .
It was very exciting , the most exciting thing they could remember .
You see , they had come to believe that Farmer Brown ' s boy wasn ' t afraid of anybody or anything , and as most of them were very much afraid of him , they had hard work to believe that he would really be afraid of even such a great , big , strong fellow as Buster Bear .
Every one was so busy watching Farmer Brown ' s boy that no one saw Buster coming from the other direction .
You see , Buster walked very softly .
Big as he is , he can walk without making the teeniest , weeniest sound .
And that is how it happened that no one saw him or heard him until just as Farmer Brown ' s boy stepped out from behind one side of a thick little hemlock - tree , Buster Bear stepped out from behind the other side of that same little tree , and there they were face to face !
Then everybody held their breath , even Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay .
For just a little minute it was so still there in the Green Forest that not the least little sound could be heard .
What was going to happen ?
XIV
A SURPRISING THING HAPPENS
Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay , looking down from the top of a tall tree , held their breath .
Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel and his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , looking down from another tree , held _their_ breath .
Unc ' Billy Possum , sticking his head out from a hollow tree , held _his_ breath .
Bobby Coon , looking through a hole in a hollow stump in which he was hiding , held _his_ breath .
Reddy Fox , lying flat down behind a heap of brush , held _his_ breath .
Peter Rabbit , sitting bolt upright under a thick hemlock branch , with eyes and ears wide open , held _his_ breath .
And all the other little people who happened to be where they could see did the same thing .
You see , it was the most exciting moment ever was in the Green Forest .
Farmer Brown ' s boy had just stepped out from behind one side of a little hemlock - tree and Buster Bear had just stepped out from behind the opposite side of the little hemlock - tree and neither had known that the other was anywhere near .
For a whole minute they stood there face to face , gazing into each other ' s eyes , while everybody watched and waited , and it seemed as if the whole Green Forest was holding its breath .
Then something happened .
Yes , Sir , something happened .
Farmer Brown ' s boy opened his mouth and yelled !
It was such a sudden yell and such a loud yell that it startled Chatterer so that he nearly fell from his place in the tree , and it made Reddy Fox jump to his feet ready to run .
And that yell was a yell of fright .
There was no doubt about it , for with the yell Farmer Brown ' s boy turned and ran for home , as no one ever had seen him run before .
He ran just as Peter Rabbit runs when he has got to reach the dear Old Briar - patch before Reddy Fox can catch him , which , you know , is as fast as he can run .
Once he stumbled and fell , but he scrambled to his feet in a twinkling , and away he went without once turning his head to see if Buster Bear was after him .
There wasn ' t any doubt that he was afraid , very much afraid .
Everybody leaned forward to watch him .
" What did I tell you ?
Didn ' t I say that he was afraid of Buster Bear ?"
cried Little Joe Otter , dancing about with excitement .
" You were right , Little Joe !
I ' m sorry that I doubted it .
See him go !
Caw , caw , caw !"
shrieked Blacky the Crow .
For a minute or two everybody forgot about Buster Bear .
Then there was a great crash which made everybody turn to look the other way .
What do you think they saw ?
Why , Buster Bear was running away too , and he was running twice as fast as Farmer Brown ' s boy !
He bumped into trees and crashed through bushes and jumped over logs , and in almost no time at all he was out of sight .
Altogether it was the most surprising thing that the little people of the Green Forest ever had seen .
[ Illustration : Buster Bear was running away , too .
Page _71_ .]
Sammy Jay looked at Blacky the Crow , and Blacky looked at Chatterer , and Chatterer looked at Happy Jack , and Happy Jack looked at Peter Rabbit , and Peter looked at Unc ' Billy Possum , and Unc ' Billy looked at Bobby Coon , and Bobby looked at Johnny Chuck , and Johnny looked at Reddy Fox , and Reddy looked at Jimmy Skunk , and Jimmy looked at Billy Mink , and Billy looked at Little Joe Otter , and for a minute nobody could say a word .
Then Little Joe gave a funny little gasp .
" Why , why - e - e !"
said he , " I believe Buster Bear is afraid too !"
Unc ' Billy Possum chuckled .
" Ah believe yo ' are right again , Brer Otter ," said he .
" It cert ' nly does look so .
If Brer Bear isn ' t scared , he must have remembered something impo ' tant and has gone to attend to it in a powerful hurry ."
Then everybody began to laugh .
XV
BUSTER BEAR IS A FALLEN HERO
A fallen hero is some one to whom every one has looked up as very brave and then proves to be less brave than he was supposed to be .
That was the way with Buster Bear .
When Little Joe Otter had told how Farmer Brown ' s boy had been afraid at the mere sight of one of Buster Bear ' s big footprints , they had at once made a hero of Buster .
At least some of them had .
As this was the first time , the very first time , that they had ever known any one who lives in the Green Forest to make Farmer Brown ' s boy run away , they looked on Buster Bear with a great deal of respect and were very proud of him .
But now they had seen Buster Bear and Farmer Brown ' s boy meet face to face ; and while it was true that Farmer Brown ' s boy had run away as fast as ever he could , it was also true that Buster Bear had done the same thing .
He had run even faster than Farmer Brown ' s boy , and had hidden in the most lonely place he could find in the very deepest part of the Green Forest .
It was hard to believe , but it was true .
And right away everybody lost a great deal of the respect for Buster which they had felt .
It is always that way .
They began to say unkind things about him .
They said them among themselves , and some of them even said them to Buster when they met him , or said them so that he would hear them .
Of course Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay , who , because they can fly , have nothing to fear from Buster , and who always delight in making other people uncomfortable , never let a chance go by to tell Buster and everybody else within hearing what they thought of him .
They delighted in flying about through the Green Forest until they had found Buster Bear and then from the safety of the tree tops screaming at him .
" Buster Bear is big and strong ; His teeth are big ; his claws are long ; In spite of these he runs away And hides himself the livelong day !"
A dozen times a day Buster would hear them screaming this .
He would grind his teeth and glare up at them , but that was all he could do .
He couldn ' t get at them .
He just had to stand it and do nothing .
But when impudent little Chatterer the Red Squirrel shouted the same thing from a place just out of reach in a big pine - tree , Buster could stand it no longer .
He gave a deep , angry growl that made little shivers run over Chatterer , and then suddenly he started up that tree after Chatterer .
With a frightened little shriek Chatterer scampered to the top of the tree .
He hadn ' t known that Buster could climb .
But Buster is a splendid climber , especially when the tree is big and stout as this one was , and now he went up after Chatterer , growling angrily .
How Chatterer did wish that he had kept his tongue still !
He ran to the very top of the tree , so frightened that his teeth chattered , and when he looked down and saw Buster ' s great mouth coming nearer and nearer , he nearly tumbled down with terror .
The worst of it was there wasn ' t another tree near enough for him to jump to .
He was in trouble this time , was Chatterer , sure enough !
And there was no one to help him .
XVI
CHATTERER THE RED SQUIRREL JUMPS FOR HIS LIFE
It isn ' t very often that Chatterer the Red Squirrel knows fear .
That is one reason that he is so often impudent and saucy .
But once in a while a great fear takes possession of him , as when he knows that Shadow the Weasel is looking for him .
You see , he knows that Shadow can go wherever he can go .
There are very few of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows who do not know fear at some time or other , but it comes to Chatterer as seldom as to any one , because he is very sure of himself and his ability to hide or run away from danger .
But now as he clung to a little branch near the top of a tall pine - tree in the Green Forest and looked down at the big sharp teeth of Buster Bear drawing nearer and nearer , and listened to the deep , angry growls that made his hair stand on end , Chatterer was too frightened to think .
If only he had kept his tongue still instead of saying hateful things to Buster Bear !
If only he had known that Buster could climb a tree !
If only he had chosen a tree near enough to other trees for him to jump across !
But he _had_ said hateful things , he _had_ chosen to sit in a tree which stood quite by itself , and Buster Bear _could_ climb !
Chatterer was in the worst kind of trouble , and there was no one to blame but himself .
That is usually the case with those who get into trouble .
Nearer and nearer came Buster Bear , and deeper and angrier sounded his voice .
Chatterer gave a little frightened gasp and looked this way and looked that way .
What should he do ?
What _could_ he do !
The ground seemed a terrible distance below .
If only he had wings like Sammy Jay !
But he hadn ' t .
" Gr - r - r - r !"
growled Buster Bear .
" I ' ll teach you manners !
I ' ll teach you to treat your betters with respect !
I ' ll swallow you whole , that ' s what I ' ll do .
Gr - r - r - r !"
" Oh !"
cried Chatterer .
" Gr - r - r - r !
I ' ll eat you all up to the last hair on your tail !"
growled Buster , scrambling a little nearer .
" Oh !
Oh !"
cried Chatterer , and ran out to the very tip of the little branch to which he had been clinging .
Now if Chatterer had only known it , Buster Bear couldn ' t reach him way up there , because the tree was too small at the top for such a big fellow as Buster .
But Chatterer didn ' t think of that .
He gave one more frightened look down at those big teeth , then he shut his eyes and jumped -- jumped straight out for the far - away ground .
It was a long , long , long way down to the ground , and it certainly looked as if such a little fellow as Chatterer must be killed .
But Chatterer had learned from Old Mother Nature that she had given him certain things to help him at just such times , and one of them is the power to spread himself very flat .
He did it now .
He spread his arms and legs out just as far as he could , and that kept him from falling as fast and as hard as he otherwise would have done , because being spread out so flat that way , the air held him up a little .
And then there was his tail , that funny little tail he is so fond of jerking when he scolds .
This helped him too .
It helped him keep his balance and keep from turning over and over .
Down , down , down he sailed and landed on his feet .
Of course , he hit the ground pretty hard , and for just a second he quite lost his breath .
But it was only for a second , and then he was scurrying off as fast as a frightened Squirrel could .
Buster Bear watched him and grinned .
" I didn ' t catch him that time ," he growled , " but I guess I gave him a good fright and taught him a lesson ."
XVII
BUSTER BEAR GOES BERRYING
Buster Bear is a great hand to talk to himself when he thinks no one is around to overhear .
It ' s a habit .
However , it isn ' t a bad habit unless it is carried too far .
Any habit becomes bad , if it is carried too far .
Suppose you had a secret , a real secret , something that nobody else knew and that you didn ' t want anybody else to know .
And suppose you had the habit of talking to yourself .
You might , without thinking , you know , tell that secret out loud to yourself , and some one might , just might happen to overhear !
Then there wouldn ' t be any secret .
That is the way that a habit which isn ' t bad in itself can become bad when it is carried too far .
Now Buster Bear had lived by himself in the Great Woods so long that this habit of talking to himself had grown and grown .
He did it just to keep from being lonesome .
Of course , when he came down to the Green Forest to live , he brought all his habits with him .
That is one thing about habits ,-- you always take them with you wherever you go .
So Buster brought this habit of talking to himself down to the Green Forest , where he had many more neighbors than he had in the Great Woods .
" Let me see , let me see , what is there to tempt my appetite ?"
said Buster in his deep , grumbly - rumbly voice .
" I find my appetite isn ' t what it ought to be .
I need a change .
Yes , Sir , I need a change .
There is something I ought to have at this time of year , and I haven ' t got it .
There is something that I used to have and don ' t have now .
Ha !
I know !
I need some fresh fruit .
That ' s it -- fresh fruit !
It must be about berry time now , and I ' d forgotten all about it .
My , my , my , how good some berries would taste !
Now if I were back up there in the Great Woods I could have all I could eat .
Um - m - m - m !
Makes my mouth water just to think of it .
There ought to be some up in the Old Pasture .
There ought to be a lot of ' em up there .
If I wasn ' t afraid that some one would see me , I ' d go up there ."
Buster sighed .
Then he sighed again .
The more he thought about those berries he felt sure were growing in the Old Pasture , the more he wanted some .
It seemed to him that never in all his life had he wanted berries as he did now .
He wandered about uneasily .
He was hungry -- hungry for berries and nothing else .
By and by he began talking to himself again .
" If I wasn ' t afraid of being seen , I ' d go up to the Old Pasture this very minute .
Seems as if I could taste those berries ."
He licked his lips hungrily as he spoke .
Then his face brightened .
" I know what I ' ll do !
I ' ll go up there at the very first peep of day to - morrow .
I can eat all I want and get back to the Green Forest before there is any danger that Farmer Brown ' s boy or any one else I ' m afraid of will see me .
That ' s just what I ' ll do .
My , I wish to - morrow morning would hurry up and come ."
Now though Buster didn ' t know it , some one had been listening , and that some one was none other than Sammy Jay .
When at last Buster lay down for a nap , Sammy flew away , chuckling to himself .
" I believe I ' ll visit the Old Pasture to - morrow morning myself ," thought he .
" I have an idea that something interesting may happen if Buster doesn ' t change his mind ."
Sammy was on the lookout very early the next morning .
The first Jolly Little Sunbeams had only reached the Green Meadows and had not started to creep into the Green Forest , when he saw a big , dark form steal out of the Green Forest where it joins the Old Pasture .
It moved very swiftly and silently , as if in a great hurry .
Sammy knew who it was : it was Buster Bear , and he was going berrying .
Sammy waited a little until he could see better .
Then he too started for the Old Pasture .
XVIII
SOMEBODY ELSE GOES BERRYING
Isn ' t it funny how two people will often think of the same thing at the same time , and neither one know that the other is thinking of it ?
That is just what happened the day that Buster Bear first thought of going berrying .
While he was walking around in the Green Forest , talking to himself about how hungry he was for some berries and how sure he was that there must be some up in the Old Pasture , some one else was thinking about berries and about the Old Pasture too .
" Will you make me a berry pie if I will get the berries to - morrow ?"
asked Farmer Brown ' s boy of his mother .
Of course Mrs . Brown promised that she would , and so that night Farmer Brown ' s boy went to bed very early that he might get up early in the morning , and all night long he dreamed of berries and berry pies .
He was awake even before jolly , round , red Mr . Sun thought it was time to get up , and he was all ready to start for the Old Pasture when the first Jolly Little Sunbeams came dancing across the Green Meadows .
He carried a big tin pail , and in the bottom of it , wrapped up in a piece of paper , was a lunch , for he meant to stay until he filled that pail , if it took all day .
Now the Old Pasture is very large .
It lies at the foot of the Big Mountain , and even extends a little way up on the Big Mountain .
There is room in it for many people to pick berries all day without even seeing each other , unless they roam about a great deal .
You see , the bushes grow very thick there , and you cannot see very far in any direction .
Jolly , round , red Mr . Sun had climbed a little way up in the sky by the time Farmer Brown ' s boy reached the Old Pasture , and was smiling down on all the Great World , and all the Great World seemed to be smiling back .
Farmer Brown ' s boy started to whistle , and then he stopped .
" If I whistle ," thought he , " everybody will know just where I am , and will keep out of sight , and I never can get acquainted with folks if they keep out of sight ."
You see , Farmer Brown ' s boy was just beginning to understand something that Peter Rabbit and the other little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest learned almost as soon as they learned to walk ,-- that if you don ' t want to be seen , you mustn ' t be heard .
So he didn ' t whistle as he felt like doing , and he tried not to make a bit of noise as he followed an old cow - path towards a place where he knew the berries grew thick and oh , so big , and all the time he kept his eyes wide open , and he kept his ears open too .
That is how he happened to hear a little cry , a very faint little cry .
If he had been whistling , he wouldn ' t have heard it at all .
He stopped to listen .
He never had heard a cry just like it before .
At first he couldn ' t make out just what it was or where it came from .
But one thing he was sure of , and that was that it was a cry of fright .
He stood perfectly still and listened with all his might .
There it was again --" Help !
Help !
Help "-- and it was very faint and sounded terribly frightened .
He waited a minute or two , but heard nothing more .
Then he put down his pail and began a hurried look here , there , and everywhere .
He was sure that it had come from somewhere on the ground , so he peered behind bushes and peeped behind logs and stones , and then just as he had about given up hope of finding where it came from , he went around a little turn in the old cow - path , and there right in front of him was little Mr . Gartersnake , and what do you think he was doing ?
Well , I don ' t like to tell you , but he was trying to swallow one of the children of Stickytoes the Tree Toad .
Of course Farmer Brown ' s Boy didn ' t let him .
He made little Mr . Gartersnake set Master Stickytoes free and held Mr . Gartersnake until Master Stickytoes was safely out of reach .
XIX
BUSTER BEAR HAS A FINE TIME
Buster Bear was having the finest time he had had since he came down from the Great Woods to live in the Green Forest .
To be sure , he wasn ' t in the Green Forest now , but he wasn ' t far from it .
He was in the Old Pasture , one edge of which touches one edge of the Green Forest .
And where do you think he was , in the Old Pasture ?
Why , right in the middle of the biggest patch of the biggest blueberries he ever had seen in all his life !
Now if there is any one thing that Buster Bear had rather have above another , it is all the berries he can eat , unless it be honey .
Nothing can quite equal honey in Buster ' s mind .
But next to honey give him berries .
He isn ' t particular what kind of berries .
Raspberries , blackberries , or blueberries , either kind , will make him perfectly happy .
" Um - m - m , my , my , but these are good !"
he mumbled in his deep grumbly - rumbly voice , as he sat on his haunches stripping off the berries greedily .
His little eyes twinkled with enjoyment , and he didn ' t mind at all if now and then he got leaves , and some green berries in his mouth with the big ripe berries .
He didn ' t try to get them out .
Oh , my , no !
He just chomped them all up together and patted his stomach from sheer delight .
Now Buster had reached the Old Pasture just as jolly , round , red Mr . Sun had crept out of bed , and he had fully made up his mind that he would be back in the Green Forest before Mr . Sun had climbed very far up in the blue , blue sky .
You see , big as he is and strong as he is , Buster Bear is very shy and bashful , and he has no desire to meet Farmer Brown , or Farmer Brown ' s boy , or any other of those two - legged creatures called men .
It seems funny but he actually is afraid of them .
And he had a feeling that he was a great deal more likely to meet one of them in the Old Pasture than deep in the Green Forest .
So when he started to look for berries , he made up his mind that he would eat what he could in a great hurry and get back to the Green Forest before Farmer Brown ' s boy was more than out of bed .
But when he found those berries he was so hungry that he forgot his fears and everything else .
They tasted so good that he just had to eat and eat and eat .
Now you know that Buster is a very big fellow , and it takes a lot to fill him up .
He kept eating and eating and eating , and the more he ate the more he wanted .
You know how it is .
So he wandered from one patch of berries to another in the Old Pasture , and never once thought of the time .
Somehow , time is the hardest thing in the world to remember , when you are having a good time .
Jolly , round , red Mr . Sun climbed higher and higher in the blue , blue sky .
He looked down on all the Great World and saw all that was going on .
He saw Buster Bear in the Old Pasture , and smiled as he saw what a perfectly glorious time Buster was having .
And he saw something else in the Old Pasture that made his smile still broader .
He saw Farmer Brown ' s boy filling a great tin pail with blueberries , and he knew that Farmer Brown ' s boy didn ' t know that Buster Bear was anywhere about , and he knew that Buster Bear didn ' t know that Farmer Brown ' s boy was anywhere about , and somehow he felt very sure that he would see something funny happen if they should chance to meet .
" Um - m - m , um - m - m ," mumbled Buster Bear with his mouth full , as he moved along to another patch of berries .
And then he gave a little gasp of surprise and delight .
Right in front of him was a shiny thing just full of the finest , biggest , bluest berries !
There were no leaves or green ones there .
Buster blinked his greedy little eyes rapidly and looked again .
No , he wasn ' t dreaming .
They were real berries , and all he had got to do was to help himself .
Buster looked sharply at the shiny thing that held the berries .
It seemed perfectly harmless .
He reached out a big paw and pushed it gently .
It tipped over and spilled out a lot of the berries .
Yes , it was perfectly harmless .
Buster gave a little sigh of pure happiness .
He would eat those berries to the last one , and then he would go home to the Green Forest .
XX
BUSTER BEAR CARRIES OFF THE PAIL OF FARMER BROWN ' S BOY
The question is , did Buster Bear steal Farmer Brown ' s boy ' s pail ?
To steal is to take something which belongs to some one else .
There is no doubt that he stole the berries that were in the pail when he found it , for he deliberately ate them .
He knew well enough that some one must have picked them -- for whoever heard of blueberries growing in tin pails ?
So there is no doubt that when Buster took them , he stole them .
But with the pail it was different .
He took the pail , but he didn ' t mean to take it .
In fact , he didn ' t want that pail at all .
You see it was this way : When Buster found that big tin pail brimming full of delicious berries in the shade of that big bush in the Old Pasture , he didn ' t stop to think whether or not he had a right to them .
Buster is so fond of berries that from the very second that his greedy little eyes saw that pailful , he forgot everything but the feast that was waiting for him right under his very nose .
He didn ' t think anything about the right or wrong of helping himself .
There before him were more berries than he had ever seen together at one time in all his life , and all he had to do was to eat and eat and eat .
And that is just what he did do .
Of course he upset the pail , but he didn ' t mind a little thing like that .
When he had gobbled up all the berries that rolled out , he thrust his nose into the pail to get all that were left in it .
Just then he heard a little noise , as if some one were coming .
He threw up his head to listen , and somehow , he never did know just how , the handle of the pail slipped back over his ears and caught there .
This was bad enough , but to make matters worse , just at that very minute he heard a shrill , angry voice shout , " Hi , there !
Get out of there !"
He didn ' t need to be told whose voice that was .
It was the voice of Farmer Brown ' s boy .
Right then and there Buster Bear nearly had a fit .
There was that awful pail fast over his head so that he couldn ' t see a thing .
Of course , that meant that he couldn ' t run away , which was the thing of all things he most wanted to do , for big as he is and strong as he is , Buster is very shy and bashful when human beings are around .
He growled and whined and squealed .
He tried to back out of the pail and couldn ' t .
He tried to shake it off and couldn ' t .
He tried to pull it off , but somehow he couldn ' t get hold of it .
Then there was another yell .
If Buster hadn ' t been so frightened himself , he might have recognized that second yell as one of fright , for that is what it was .
You see Farmer Brown ' s boy had just discovered Buster Bear .
When he had yelled the first time , he had supposed that it was one of the young cattle who live in the Old Pasture all summer , but when he saw Buster , he was just as badly frightened as Buster himself .
In fact , he was too surprised and frightened even to run .
After that second yell he just stood still and stared .
Buster clawed at that awful thing on his head more frantically than ever .
Suddenly it slipped off , so that he could see .
He gave one frightened look at Farmer Brown ' s boy , and then with a mighty " Woof !"
he started for the Green Forest as fast as his legs could take him , and this was very fast indeed , let me tell you .
He didn ' t stop to pick out a path , but just crashed through the bushes as if they were nothing at all , just nothing at all .
But the funniest thing of all is this -- he took that pail with him !
Yes , Sir , Buster Bear ran away with the big tin pail of Farmer Brown ' s boy !
You see when it slipped off his head , the handle was still around his neck , and there he was running away with a pail hanging from his neck !
He didn ' t want it .
He would have given anything to get rid of it .
But he took it because he couldn ' t help it .
And that brings us back to the question , did Buster steal Farmer Brown ' s boy ' s pail ?
What do you think ?
XXI
SAMMY JAY MAKES THINGS WORSE FOR BUSTER BEAR
" Thief , thief , thief !
Thief , thief , thief !"
Sammy Jay was screaming at the top of his lungs , as he followed Buster Bear across the Old Pasture towards the Green Forest .
Never had he screamed so loud , and never had his voice sounded so excited .
The little people of the Green Forest , the Green Meadows , and the Smiling Pool are so used to hearing Sammy cry thief that usually they think very little about it .
But every blessed one who heard Sammy this morning stopped whatever he was doing and pricked up his ears to listen .
Sammy ' s cousin , Blacky the Crow , just happened to be flying along the edge of the Old Pasture , and the minute he heard Sammy ' s voice , he turned and flew over to see what it was all about .
Just as soon as he caught sight of Buster Bear running for the Green Forest as hard as ever he could , he understood what had excited Sammy so .
He was so surprised that he almost forgot to keep his wings moving .
Buster Bear had what looked to Blacky very much like a tin pail hanging from his neck !
No wonder Sammy was excited .
Blacky beat his wings fiercely and started after Sammy .
And so they reached the edge of the Green Forest , Buster Bear running as hard as ever he could , Sammy Jay flying just behind him and screaming , " Thief , thief , thief !"
at the top of his lungs , and behind him Blacky the Crow , trying to catch up and yelling as loud as he could , " Caw , caw , caw !
Come on , everybody !
Come on !
Come on !"
Poor Buster !
It was bad enough to be frightened almost to death as he had been up in the Old Pasture when the pail had caught over his head just as Farmer Brown ' s boy had yelled at him .
Then to have the handle of the pail slip down around his neck so that he couldn ' t get rid of the pail but had to take it with him as he ran , was making a bad matter worse .
Now to have all his neighbors of the Green Forest see him in such a fix and make fun of him , was more than he could stand .
He felt humiliated .
That is just another way of saying shamed .
Yes , Sir , Buster felt that he was shamed in the eyes of his neighbors , and he wanted nothing so much as to get away by himself , where no one could see him , and try to get rid of that dreadful pail .
But Buster is so big that it is not easy for him to find a hiding place .
So , when he reached the Green Forest , he kept right on to the deepest , darkest , most lonesome part and crept under the thickest hemlock - tree he could find .
But it was of no use .
The sharp eyes of Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow saw him .
They actually flew into the very tree under which he was hiding , and how they did scream !
Pretty soon Ol ' Mistah Buzzard came dropping down out of the blue , blue sky and took a seat on a convenient dead tree , where he could see all that went on .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard began to grin as soon as he saw that tin pail on Buster ' s neck .
Then came others ,-- Redtail the Hawk , Scrapper the Kingbird , Redwing the Blackbird , Drummer the Woodpecker , Welcome Robin , Tommy Tit the Chickadee , Jenny Wren , Redeye the Vireo , and ever so many more .
They came from the Old Orchard , the Green Meadows , and even down by the Smiling Pool , for the voices of Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow carried far , and at the sound of them everybody hurried over , sure that something exciting was going on .
Presently Buster heard light footsteps , and peeping out , he saw Billy Mink and Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare and Prickly Porky and Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk .
Even timid little Whitefoot the Wood Mouse was where he could peer out and see without being seen .
Of course , Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel were there .
There they all sat in a great circle around him , each where he felt safe , but where he could see , and every one of them laughing and making fun of Buster .
" Thief , thief , thief !"
screamed Sammy until his throat was sore .
The worst of it was Buster knew that everybody knew that it was true .
That awful pail was proof of it .
" I wish I never had thought of berries ," growled Buster to himself .
XXII
BUSTER BEAR HAS A FIT OF TEMPER
A temper is a bad , bad thing When once it gets away .
There ' s nothing quite at all like it To spoil a pleasant day .
Buster Bear was in a terrible temper .
Yes , Sir , Buster Bear was having the worst fit of temper ever seen in the Green Forest .
And the worst part of it all was that all his neighbors of the Green Forest and a whole lot from the Green Meadows and the Smiling Pool were also there to see it .
It is bad enough to give way to temper when you are all alone , and there is no one to watch you , but when you let temper get the best of you right where others see you , oh , dear , dear , it certainly is a sorry sight .
Now ordinarily Buster is one of the most good - natured persons in the world .
It takes a great deal to rouse his temper .
He isn ' t one tenth so quick tempered as Chatterer the Red Squirrel , or Sammy Jay , or Reddy Fox .
But when his temper is aroused and gets away from him , then watch out !
It seemed to Buster that he had had all that he could stand that day and a little more .
First had come the fright back there in the Old Pasture .
Then the pail had slipped down behind his ears and held fast , so he had run all the way to the Green Forest with it hanging about his neck .
This was bad enough , for he knew just how funny he must look , and besides , it was very uncomfortable .
But to have Sammy Jay call everybody within hearing to come and see him was more than he could stand .
It seemed to Buster as if everybody who lives in the Green Forest , on the Green Meadows , or around the Smiling Brook , was sitting around his hiding place , laughing and making fun of him .
It was more than any self - respecting Bear could stand .
With a roar of anger Buster Bear charged out of his hiding place .
He rushed this way and that way !
He roared with all his might !
He was very terrible to see .
Those who could fly , flew .
Those who could climb , climbed .
And those who were swift of foot , ran .
A few who could neither fly nor climb nor run fast , hid and lay shaking and trembling for fear that Buster would find them .
In less time than it takes to tell about it , Buster was alone .
At least , he couldn ' t see any one .
[ Illustration : Those who could fly , flew .
Those who could climb , climbed .
_Page 112 . _ ]
Then he vented his temper on the tin pail .
He cuffed at it and pulled at it , all the time growling angrily .
He lay down and clawed at it with his hind feet .
At last the handle broke , and he was free !
He shook himself .
Then he jumped on the helpless pail .
With a blow of a big paw he sent it clattering against a tree .
He tried to bite it .
Then he once more fell to knocking it this way and that way , until it was pounded flat , and no one would ever have guessed that it had once been a pail .
Then , and not till then , did Buster recover his usual good nature .
Little by little , as he thought it all over , a look of shame crept into his face .
" I -- I guess it wasn ' t the fault of that thing .
I ought to have known enough to keep my head out of it ," he said slowly and thoughtfully .
" You got no more than you deserve for stealing Farmer Brown ' s boy ' s berries ," said Sammy Jay , who had come back and was looking on from the top of a tree .
" You ought to know by this time that no good comes of stealing ."
Buster Bear looked up and grinned , and there was a twinkle in his eyes .
" You ought to know , Sammy Jay ," said he .
" I hope you ' ll always remember it ."
" Thief , thief , thief !"
screamed Sammy , and flew away .
XXIII
FARMER BROWN ' S BOY LUNCHES ON BERRIES
When things go wrong in spite of you To smile ' s the best thing you can do -- To smile and say , " I ' m mighty glad They are no worse ; they ' re not so bad !"
That is what Farmer Brown ' s boy said when he found that Buster Bear had stolen the berries he had worked so hard to pick and then had run off with the pail .
You see , Farmer Brown ' s boy is learning to be something of a philosopher , one of those people who accept bad things cheerfully and right away see how they are better than they might have been .
When he had first heard some one in the bushes where he had hidden his pail of berries , he had been very sure that it was one of the cows or young cattle who live in the Old Pasture during the summer .
He had been afraid that they might stupidly kick over the pail and spill the berries , and he had hurried to drive whoever it was away .
It hadn ' t entered his head that it could be anybody who would eat those berries .
When he had yelled and Buster Bear had suddenly appeared , struggling to get off the pail which had caught over his head , Farmer Brown ' s boy had been too frightened to even move .
Then he had seen Buster tear away through the brush even more frightened than he was , and right away his courage had begun to come back .
" If he is so afraid of me , I guess I needn ' t be afraid of him ," said he .
" I ' ve lost my berries , but it is worth it to find out that he is afraid of me .
There are plenty more on the bushes , and all I ' ve got to do is to pick them .
It might be worse ."
He walked over to the place where the pail had been , and then he remembered that when Buster ran away he had carried the pail with him , hanging about his neck .
He whistled .
It was a comical little whistle of chagrin as he realized that he had nothing in which to put more berries , even if he picked them .
" It ' s worse than I thought ," cried he .
" That bear has cheated me out of that berry pie my mother promised me ."
Then he began to laugh , as he thought of how funny Buster Bear had looked with the pail about his neck , and then because , you know he is learning to be a philosopher , he once more repeated , " It might have been worse .
Yes , indeed , it might have been worse .
That bear might have tried to eat me instead of the berries .
I guess I ' ll go eat that lunch I left back by the spring , and then I ' ll go home .
I can pick berries some other day ."
Chuckling happily over Buster Bear ' s great fright , Farmer Brown ' s boy tramped back to the spring where he had left two thick sandwiches on a flat stone when he started to save his pail of berries .
" My , but those sandwiches will taste good ," thought he .
" I ' m glad they are big and thick .
I never was hungrier in my life .
Hello !"
This he exclaimed right out loud , for he had just come in sight of the flat stone where the sandwiches should have been , and they were not there .
No , Sir , there wasn ' t so much as a crumb left of those two thick sandwiches .
You see , Old Man Coyote had found them and gobbled them up while Farmer Brown ' s boy was away .
But Farmer Brown ' s boy didn ' t know anything about Old Man Coyote .
He rubbed his eyes and stared everywhere , even up in the trees , as if he thought those sandwiches might be hanging up there .
They had disappeared as completely as if they never had been , and Old Man Coyote had taken care to leave no trace of his visit .
Farmer Brown ' s boy gaped foolishly this way and that way .
Then , instead of growing angry , a slow smile stole over his freckled face .
" I guess some one else was hungry too ," he muttered .
" Wonder who it was ?
Guess this Old Pasture is no place for me to - day .
I ' ll fill up on berries and then I ' ll go home ."
So Farmer Brown ' s boy made his lunch on blueberries and then rather sheepishly he started for home to tell of all the strange things that had happened to him in the Old Pasture .
Two or three times , as he trudged along , he stopped to scratch his head thoughtfully .
" I guess ," said he at last , " that I ' m not so smart as I thought I was , and I ' ve got a lot to learn yet ."
This is the end of the adventures of Buster Bear in this book because -- guess why .
Because Old Mr . Toad insists that I must write a book about his adventures , and Old Mr . Toad is such a good friend of all of us that I am going to do it .
[ Alice ' s Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll 1865 ]
CHAPTER I .
Down the Rabbit - Hole
Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the bank , and of having nothing to do : once or twice she had peeped into the book her sister was reading , but it had no pictures or conversations in it , ' and what is the use of a book ,' thought Alice ' without pictures or conversation ?'
So she was considering in her own mind ( as well as she could , for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid ), whether the pleasure of making a daisy - chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies , when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her .
There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that ; nor did Alice think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself , ' Oh dear !
Oh dear !
I shall be late !'
( when she thought it over afterwards , it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this , but at the time it all seemed quite natural ); but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT - POCKET , and looked at it , and then hurried on , Alice started to her feet , for it flashed across her mind that she had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat - pocket , or a watch to take out of it , and burning with curiosity , she ran across the field after it , and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit - hole under the hedge .
In another moment down went Alice after it , never once considering how in the world she was to get out again .
The rabbit - hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way , and then dipped suddenly down , so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep well .
Either the well was very deep , or she fell very slowly , for she had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was going to happen next .
First , she tried to look down and make out what she was coming to , but it was too dark to see anything ; then she looked at the sides of the well , and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book - shelves ; here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs .
She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed ; it was labelled ' ORANGE MARMALADE ', but to her great disappointment it was empty : she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody , so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it .
' Well !'
thought Alice to herself , ' after such a fall as this , I shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs !
How brave they ' ll all think me at home !
Why , I wouldn ' t say anything about it , even if I fell off the top of the house !'
( Which was very likely true .)
Down , down , down .
Would the fall NEVER come to an end !
' I wonder how many miles I ' ve fallen by this time ?'
she said aloud .
' I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth .
Let me see : that would be four thousand miles down , I think --' ( for , you see , Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom , and though this was not a VERY good opportunity for showing off her knowledge , as there was no one to listen to her , still it was good practice to say it over ) '-- yes , that ' s about the right distance -- but then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude I ' ve got to ?'
( Alice had no idea what Latitude was , or Longitude either , but thought they were nice grand words to say .)
Presently she began again .
' I wonder if I shall fall right THROUGH the earth !
How funny it ' ll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads downward !
The Antipathies , I think --' ( she was rather glad there WAS no one listening , this time , as it didn ' t sound at all the right word ) '-- but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is , you know .
Please , Ma ' am , is this New Zealand or Australia ?'
( and she tried to curtsey as she spoke -- fancy CURTSEYING as you ' re falling through the air !
Do you think you could manage it ?)
' And what an ignorant little girl she ' ll think me for asking !
No , it ' ll never do to ask : perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere .'
Down , down , down .
There was nothing else to do , so Alice soon began talking again .
' Dinah ' ll miss me very much to - night , I should think !'
( Dinah was the cat .)
' I hope they ' ll remember her saucer of milk at tea - time .
Dinah my dear !
I wish you were down here with me !
There are no mice in the air , I ' m afraid , but you might catch a bat , and that ' s very like a mouse , you know .
But do cats eat bats , I wonder ?'
And here Alice began to get rather sleepy , and went on saying to herself , in a dreamy sort of way , ' Do cats eat bats ?
Do cats eat bats ?'
and sometimes , ' Do bats eat cats ?'
for , you see , as she couldn ' t answer either question , it didn ' t much matter which way she put it .
She felt that she was dozing off , and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah , and saying to her very earnestly , ' Now , Dinah , tell me the truth : did you ever eat a bat ?'
when suddenly , thump !
thump !
down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves , and the fall was over .
Alice was not a bit hurt , and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment : she looked up , but it was all dark overhead ; before her was another long passage , and the White Rabbit was still in sight , hurrying down it .
There was not a moment to be lost : away went Alice like the wind , and was just in time to hear it say , as it turned a corner , ' Oh my ears and whiskers , how late it ' s getting !'
She was close behind it when she turned the corner , but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen : she found herself in a long , low hall , which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof .
There were doors all round the hall , but they were all locked ; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other , trying every door , she walked sadly down the middle , wondering how she was ever to get out again .
Suddenly she came upon a little three - legged table , all made of solid glass ; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key , and Alice ' s first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall ; but , alas !
either the locks were too large , or the key was too small , but at any rate it would not open any of them .
However , on the second time round , she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before , and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high : she tried the little golden key in the lock , and to her great delight it fitted !
Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage , not much larger than a rat - hole : she knelt down and looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw .
How she longed to get out of that dark hall , and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains , but she could not even get her head through the doorway ; ' and even if my head would go through ,' thought poor Alice , ' it would be of very little use without my shoulders .
Oh , how I wish I could shut up like a telescope !
I think I could , if I only know how to begin .'
For , you see , so many out - of - the - way things had happened lately , that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible .
There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door , so she went back to the table , half hoping she might find another key on it , or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes : this time she found a little bottle on it , (' which certainly was not here before ,' said Alice ,) and round the neck of the bottle was a paper label , with the words ' DRINK ME ' beautifully printed on it in large letters .
It was all very well to say ' Drink me ,' but the wise little Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry .
' No , I ' ll look first ,' she said , ' and see whether it ' s marked " poison " or not '; for she had read several nice little histories about children who had got burnt , and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things , all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them : such as , that a red - hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long ; and that if you cut your finger VERY deeply with a knife , it usually bleeds ; and she had never forgotten that , if you drink much from a bottle marked ' poison ,' it is almost certain to disagree with you , sooner or later .
However , this bottle was NOT marked ' poison ,' so Alice ventured to taste it , and finding it very nice , ( it had , in fact , a sort of mixed flavour of cherry - tart , custard , pine - apple , roast turkey , toffee , and hot buttered toast ,) she very soon finished it off .
* * * * * * *
* * * * * *
* * * * * * *
' What a curious feeling !'
said Alice ; ' I must be shutting up like a telescope .'
And so it was indeed : she was now only ten inches high , and her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden .
First , however , she waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further : she felt a little nervous about this ; ' for it might end , you know ,' said Alice to herself , ' in my going out altogether , like a candle .
I wonder what I should be like then ?'
And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out , for she could not remember ever having seen such a thing .
After a while , finding that nothing more happened , she decided on going into the garden at once ; but , alas for poor Alice !
when she got to the door , she found she had forgotten the little golden key , and when she went back to the table for it , she found she could not possibly reach it : she could see it quite plainly through the glass , and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table , but it was too slippery ; and when she had tired herself out with trying , the poor little thing sat down and cried .
' Come , there ' s no use in crying like that !'
said Alice to herself , rather sharply ; ' I advise you to leave off this minute !'
She generally gave herself very good advice , ( though she very seldom followed it ), and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her eyes ; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself , for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people .
' But it ' s no use now ,' thought poor Alice , ' to pretend to be two people !
Why , there ' s hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable person !'
Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table : she opened it , and found in it a very small cake , on which the words ' EAT ME ' were beautifully marked in currants .
' Well , I ' ll eat it ,' said Alice , ' and if it makes me grow larger , I can reach the key ; and if it makes me grow smaller , I can creep under the door ; so either way I ' ll get into the garden , and I don ' t care which happens !'
She ate a little bit , and said anxiously to herself , ' Which way ?
Which way ?
', holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing , and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size : to be sure , this generally happens when one eats cake , but Alice had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out - of - the - way things to happen , that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way .
So she set to work , and very soon finished off the cake .
* * * * * * *
* * * * * *
* * * * * * *
CHAPTER II .
The Pool of Tears
' Curiouser and curiouser !'
cried Alice ( she was so much surprised , that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English ); ' now I ' m opening out like the largest telescope that ever was !
Good - bye , feet !'
( for when she looked down at her feet , they seemed to be almost out of sight , they were getting so far off ).
' Oh , my poor little feet , I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now , dears ?
I ' m sure _I_ shan ' t be able !
I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you : you must manage the best way you can ;-- but I must be kind to them ,' thought Alice , ' or perhaps they won ' t walk the way I want to go !
Let me see : I ' ll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas .'
And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it .
' They must go by the carrier ,' she thought ; ' and how funny it ' ll seem , sending presents to one ' s own feet !
And how odd the directions will look !
ALICE ' S RIGHT FOOT , ESQ .
HEARTHRUG , NEAR THE FENDER , ( WITH ALICE ' S LOVE ).
Oh dear , what nonsense I ' m talking !'
Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall : in fact she was now more than nine feet high , and she at once took up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door .
Poor Alice !
It was as much as she could do , lying down on one side , to look through into the garden with one eye ; but to get through was more hopeless than ever : she sat down and began to cry again .
' You ought to be ashamed of yourself ,' said Alice , ' a great girl like you ,' ( she might well say this ), ' to go on crying in this way !
Stop this moment , I tell you !'
But she went on all the same , shedding gallons of tears , until there was a large pool all round her , about four inches deep and reaching half down the hall .
After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance , and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming .
It was the White Rabbit returning , splendidly dressed , with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other : he came trotting along in a great hurry , muttering to himself as he came , ' Oh !
the Duchess , the Duchess !
Oh !
won ' t she be savage if I ' ve kept her waiting !'
Alice felt so desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one ; so , when the Rabbit came near her , she began , in a low , timid voice , ' If you please , sir --' The Rabbit started violently , dropped the white kid gloves and the fan , and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go .
Alice took up the fan and gloves , and , as the hall was very hot , she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking : ' Dear , dear !
How queer everything is to - day !
And yesterday things went on just as usual .
I wonder if I ' ve been changed in the night ?
Let me think : was I the same when I got up this morning ?
I almost think I can remember feeling a little different .
But if I ' m not the same , the next question is , Who in the world am I ?
Ah , THAT ' S the great puzzle !'
And she began thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age as herself , to see if she could have been changed for any of them .
' I ' m sure I ' m not Ada ,' she said , ' for her hair goes in such long ringlets , and mine doesn ' t go in ringlets at all ; and I ' m sure I can ' t be Mabel , for I know all sorts of things , and she , oh !
she knows such a very little !
Besides , SHE ' S she , and I ' m I , and -- oh dear , how puzzling it all is !
I ' ll try if I know all the things I used to know .
Let me see : four times five is twelve , and four times six is thirteen , and four times seven is -- oh dear !
I shall never get to twenty at that rate !
However , the Multiplication Table doesn ' t signify : let ' s try Geography .
London is the capital of Paris , and Paris is the capital of Rome , and Rome -- no , THAT ' S all wrong , I ' m certain !
I must have been changed for Mabel !
I ' ll try and say " How doth the little --"' and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons , and began to repeat it , but her voice sounded hoarse and strange , and the words did not come the same as they used to do :--
' How doth the little crocodile Improve his shining tail , And pour the waters of the Nile On every golden scale !
' How cheerfully he seems to grin , How neatly spread his claws , And welcome little fishes in With gently smiling jaws !'
' I ' m sure those are not the right words ,' said poor Alice , and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on , ' I must be Mabel after all , and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house , and have next to no toys to play with , and oh !
ever so many lessons to learn !
No , I ' ve made up my mind about it ; if I ' m Mabel , I ' ll stay down here !
It ' ll be no use their putting their heads down and saying " Come up again , dear !"
I shall only look up and say " Who am I then ?
Tell me that first , and then , if I like being that person , I ' ll come up : if not , I ' ll stay down here till I ' m somebody else "-- but , oh dear !'
cried Alice , with a sudden burst of tears , ' I do wish they WOULD put their heads down !
I am so VERY tired of being all alone here !'
As she said this she looked down at her hands , and was surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit ' s little white kid gloves while she was talking .
' How CAN I have done that ?'
she thought .
' I must be growing small again .'
She got up and went to the table to measure herself by it , and found that , as nearly as she could guess , she was now about two feet high , and was going on shrinking rapidly : she soon found out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding , and she dropped it hastily , just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether .
' That WAS a narrow escape !'
said Alice , a good deal frightened at the sudden change , but very glad to find herself still in existence ; ' and now for the garden !'
and she ran with all speed back to the little door : but , alas !
the little door was shut again , and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before , ' and things are worse than ever ,' thought the poor child , ' for I never was so small as this before , never !
And I declare it ' s too bad , that it is !'
As she said these words her foot slipped , and in another moment , splash !
she was up to her chin in salt water .
Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea , ' and in that case I can go back by railway ,' she said to herself .
( Alice had been to the seaside once in her life , and had come to the general conclusion , that wherever you go to on the English coast you find a number of bathing machines in the sea , some children digging in the sand with wooden spades , then a row of lodging houses , and behind them a railway station .)
However , she soon made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high .
' I wish I hadn ' t cried so much !'
said Alice , as she swam about , trying to find her way out .
' I shall be punished for it now , I suppose , by being drowned in my own tears !
That WILL be a queer thing , to be sure !
However , everything is queer to - day .'
Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off , and she swam nearer to make out what it was : at first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus , but then she remembered how small she was now , and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself .
' Would it be of any use , now ,' thought Alice , ' to speak to this mouse ?
Everything is so out - of - the - way down here , that I should think very likely it can talk : at any rate , there ' s no harm in trying .'
So she began : ' O Mouse , do you know the way out of this pool ?
I am very tired of swimming about here , O Mouse !'
( Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse : she had never done such a thing before , but she remembered having seen in her brother ' s Latin Grammar , ' A mouse -- of a mouse -- to a mouse -- a mouse -- O mouse !')
The Mouse looked at her rather inquisitively , and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes , but it said nothing .
' Perhaps it doesn ' t understand English ,' thought Alice ; ' I daresay it ' s a French mouse , come over with William the Conqueror .'
( For , with all her knowledge of history , Alice had no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened .)
So she began again : ' Ou est ma chatte ?'
which was the first sentence in her French lesson - book .
The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water , and seemed to quiver all over with fright .
' Oh , I beg your pardon !'
cried Alice hastily , afraid that she had hurt the poor animal ' s feelings .
' I quite forgot you didn ' t like cats .'
' Not like cats !'
cried the Mouse , in a shrill , passionate voice .
' Would YOU like cats if you were me ?'
' Well , perhaps not ,' said Alice in a soothing tone : ' don ' t be angry about it .
And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah : I think you ' d take a fancy to cats if you could only see her .
She is such a dear quiet thing ,' Alice went on , half to herself , as she swam lazily about in the pool , ' and she sits purring so nicely by the fire , licking her paws and washing her face -- and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse -- and she ' s such a capital one for catching mice -- oh , I beg your pardon !'
cried Alice again , for this time the Mouse was bristling all over , and she felt certain it must be really offended .
' We won ' t talk about her any more if you ' d rather not .'
' We indeed !'
cried the Mouse , who was trembling down to the end of his tail .
' As if I would talk on such a subject !
Our family always HATED cats : nasty , low , vulgar things !
Don ' t let me hear the name again !'
' I won ' t indeed !'
said Alice , in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation .
' Are you -- are you fond -- of -- of dogs ?'
The Mouse did not answer , so Alice went on eagerly : ' There is such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you !
A little bright - eyed terrier , you know , with oh , such long curly brown hair !
And it ' ll fetch things when you throw them , and it ' ll sit up and beg for its dinner , and all sorts of things -- I can ' t remember half of them -- and it belongs to a farmer , you know , and he says it ' s so useful , it ' s worth a hundred pounds !
He says it kills all the rats and -- oh dear !'
cried Alice in a sorrowful tone , ' I ' m afraid I ' ve offended it again !'
For the Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go , and making quite a commotion in the pool as it went .
So she called softly after it , ' Mouse dear !
Do come back again , and we won ' t talk about cats or dogs either , if you don ' t like them !'
When the Mouse heard this , it turned round and swam slowly back to her : its face was quite pale ( with passion , Alice thought ), and it said in a low trembling voice , ' Let us get to the shore , and then I ' ll tell you my history , and you ' ll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs .'
It was high time to go , for the pool was getting quite crowded with the birds and animals that had fallen into it : there were a Duck and a Dodo , a Lory and an Eaglet , and several other curious creatures .
Alice led the way , and the whole party swam to the shore .
CHAPTER III .
A Caucus - Race and a Long Tale
They were indeed a queer - looking party that assembled on the bank -- the birds with draggled feathers , the animals with their fur clinging close to them , and all dripping wet , cross , and uncomfortable .
The first question of course was , how to get dry again : they had a consultation about this , and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them , as if she had known them all her life .
Indeed , she had quite a long argument with the Lory , who at last turned sulky , and would only say , ' I am older than you , and must know better '; and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was , and , as the Lory positively refused to tell its age , there was no more to be said .
At last the Mouse , who seemed to be a person of authority among them , called out , ' Sit down , all of you , and listen to me !
I ' LL soon make you dry enough !'
They all sat down at once , in a large ring , with the Mouse in the middle .
Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it , for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon .
' Ahem !'
said the Mouse with an important air , ' are you all ready ?
This is the driest thing I know .
Silence all round , if you please !
" William the Conqueror , whose cause was favoured by the pope , was soon submitted to by the English , who wanted leaders , and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest .
Edwin and Morcar , the earls of Mercia and Northumbria --"'
' Ugh !'
said the Lory , with a shiver .
' I beg your pardon !'
said the Mouse , frowning , but very politely : ' Did you speak ?'
' Not I !'
said the Lory hastily .
' I thought you did ,' said the Mouse . '
-- I proceed .
" Edwin and Morcar , the earls of Mercia and Northumbria , declared for him : and even Stigand , the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury , found it advisable --"'
' Found WHAT ?'
said the Duck .
' Found IT ,' the Mouse replied rather crossly : ' of course you know what " it " means .'
' I know what " it " means well enough , when I find a thing ,' said the Duck : ' it ' s generally a frog or a worm .
The question is , what did the archbishop find ?'
The Mouse did not notice this question , but hurriedly went on , '"-- found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the crown .
William ' s conduct at first was moderate .
But the insolence of his Normans --" How are you getting on now , my dear ?'
it continued , turning to Alice as it spoke .
' As wet as ever ,' said Alice in a melancholy tone : ' it doesn ' t seem to dry me at all .'
' In that case ,' said the Dodo solemnly , rising to its feet , ' I move that the meeting adjourn , for the immediate adoption of more energetic remedies --'
' Speak English !'
said the Eaglet .
' I don ' t know the meaning of half those long words , and , what ' s more , I don ' t believe you do either !'
And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile : some of the other birds tittered audibly .
' What I was going to say ,' said the Dodo in an offended tone , ' was , that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus - race .'
' What IS a Caucus - race ?'
said Alice ; not that she wanted much to know , but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY ought to speak , and no one else seemed inclined to say anything .
' Why ,' said the Dodo , ' the best way to explain it is to do it .'
( And , as you might like to try the thing yourself , some winter day , I will tell you how the Dodo managed it .)
First it marked out a race - course , in a sort of circle , (' the exact shape doesn ' t matter ,' it said ,) and then all the party were placed along the course , here and there .
There was no ' One , two , three , and away ,' but they began running when they liked , and left off when they liked , so that it was not easy to know when the race was over .
However , when they had been running half an hour or so , and were quite dry again , the Dodo suddenly called out ' The race is over !'
and they all crowded round it , panting , and asking , ' But who has won ?'
This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought , and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead ( the position in which you usually see Shakespeare , in the pictures of him ), while the rest waited in silence .
At last the Dodo said , ' EVERYBODY has won , and all must have prizes .'
' But who is to give the prizes ?'
quite a chorus of voices asked .
' Why , SHE , of course ,' said the Dodo , pointing to Alice with one finger ; and the whole party at once crowded round her , calling out in a confused way , ' Prizes !
Prizes !'
Alice had no idea what to do , and in despair she put her hand in her pocket , and pulled out a box of comfits , ( luckily the salt water had not got into it ), and handed them round as prizes .
There was exactly one a - piece all round .
' But she must have a prize herself , you know ,' said the Mouse .
' Of course ,' the Dodo replied very gravely .
' What else have you got in your pocket ?'
he went on , turning to Alice .
' Only a thimble ,' said Alice sadly .
' Hand it over here ,' said the Dodo .
Then they all crowded round her once more , while the Dodo solemnly presented the thimble , saying ' We beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble '; and , when it had finished this short speech , they all cheered .
Alice thought the whole thing very absurd , but they all looked so grave that she did not dare to laugh ; and , as she could not think of anything to say , she simply bowed , and took the thimble , looking as solemn as she could .
The next thing was to eat the comfits : this caused some noise and confusion , as the large birds complained that they could not taste theirs , and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back .
However , it was over at last , and they sat down again in a ring , and begged the Mouse to tell them something more .
' You promised to tell me your history , you know ,' said Alice , ' and why it is you hate -- C and D ,' she added in a whisper , half afraid that it would be offended again .
' Mine is a long and a sad tale !'
said the Mouse , turning to Alice , and sighing .
' It IS a long tail , certainly ,' said Alice , looking down with wonder at the Mouse ' s tail ; ' but why do you call it sad ?'
And she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking , so that her idea of the tale was something like this :--
' Fury said to a mouse , That he met in the house , " Let us both go to law : I will prosecute YOU .-- Come , I ' ll take no denial ; We must have a trial : For really this morning I ' ve nothing to do ."
Said the mouse to the cur , " Such a trial , dear Sir , With no jury or judge , would be wasting our breath ."
" I ' ll be judge , I ' ll be jury ," Said cunning old Fury : " I ' ll try the whole cause , and condemn you to death ."'
' You are not attending !'
said the Mouse to Alice severely .
' What are you thinking of ?'
' I beg your pardon ,' said Alice very humbly : ' you had got to the fifth bend , I think ?'
' I had NOT !'
cried the Mouse , sharply and very angrily .
' A knot !'
said Alice , always ready to make herself useful , and looking anxiously about her .
' Oh , do let me help to undo it !'
' I shall do nothing of the sort ,' said the Mouse , getting up and walking away .
' You insult me by talking such nonsense !'
' I didn ' t mean it !'
pleaded poor Alice .
' But you ' re so easily offended , you know !'
The Mouse only growled in reply .
' Please come back and finish your story !'
Alice called after it ; and the others all joined in chorus , ' Yes , please do !'
but the Mouse only shook its head impatiently , and walked a little quicker .
' What a pity it wouldn ' t stay !'
sighed the Lory , as soon as it was quite out of sight ; and an old Crab took the opportunity of saying to her daughter ' Ah , my dear !
Let this be a lesson to you never to lose YOUR temper !'
' Hold your tongue , Ma !'
said the young Crab , a little snappishly .
' You ' re enough to try the patience of an oyster !'
' I wish I had our Dinah here , I know I do !'
said Alice aloud , addressing nobody in particular .
' She ' d soon fetch it back !'
' And who is Dinah , if I might venture to ask the question ?'
said the Lory .
Alice replied eagerly , for she was always ready to talk about her pet : ' Dinah ' s our cat .
And she ' s such a capital one for catching mice you can ' t think !
And oh , I wish you could see her after the birds !
Why , she ' ll eat a little bird as soon as look at it !'
This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party .
Some of the birds hurried off at once : one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very carefully , remarking , ' I really must be getting home ; the night - air doesn ' t suit my throat !'
and a Canary called out in a trembling voice to its children , ' Come away , my dears !
It ' s high time you were all in bed !'
On various pretexts they all moved off , and Alice was soon left alone .
' I wish I hadn ' t mentioned Dinah !'
she said to herself in a melancholy tone .
' Nobody seems to like her , down here , and I ' m sure she ' s the best cat in the world !
Oh , my dear Dinah !
I wonder if I shall ever see you any more !'
And here poor Alice began to cry again , for she felt very lonely and low - spirited .
In a little while , however , she again heard a little pattering of footsteps in the distance , and she looked up eagerly , half hoping that the Mouse had changed his mind , and was coming back to finish his story .
CHAPTER IV .
The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill
It was the White Rabbit , trotting slowly back again , and looking anxiously about as it went , as if it had lost something ; and she heard it muttering to itself ' The Duchess !
The Duchess !
Oh my dear paws !
Oh my fur and whiskers !
She ' ll get me executed , as sure as ferrets are ferrets !
Where CAN I have dropped them , I wonder ?'
Alice guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves , and she very good - naturedly began hunting about for them , but they were nowhere to be seen -- everything seemed to have changed since her swim in the pool , and the great hall , with the glass table and the little door , had vanished completely .
Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice , as she went hunting about , and called out to her in an angry tone , ' Why , Mary Ann , what ARE you doing out here ?
Run home this moment , and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan !
Quick , now !'
And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to , without trying to explain the mistake it had made .
' He took me for his housemaid ,' she said to herself as she ran .
' How surprised he ' ll be when he finds out who I am !
But I ' d better take him his fan and gloves -- that is , if I can find them .'
As she said this , she came upon a neat little house , on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name ' W .
RABBIT ' engraved upon it .
She went in without knocking , and hurried upstairs , in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann , and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and gloves .
' How queer it seems ,' Alice said to herself , ' to be going messages for a rabbit !
I suppose Dinah ' ll be sending me on messages next !'
And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen : '" Miss Alice !
Come here directly , and get ready for your walk !"
" Coming in a minute , nurse !
But I ' ve got to see that the mouse doesn ' t get out ."
Only I don ' t think ,' Alice went on , ' that they ' d let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering people about like that !'
By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the window , and on it ( as she had hoped ) a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves : she took up the fan and a pair of the gloves , and was just going to leave the room , when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking - glass .
There was no label this time with the words ' DRINK ME ,' but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips .
' I know SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen ,' she said to herself , ' whenever I eat or drink anything ; so I ' ll just see what this bottle does .
I do hope it ' ll make me grow large again , for really I ' m quite tired of being such a tiny little thing !'
It did so indeed , and much sooner than she had expected : before she had drunk half the bottle , she found her head pressing against the ceiling , and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken .
She hastily put down the bottle , saying to herself ' That ' s quite enough -- I hope I shan ' t grow any more -- As it is , I can ' t get out at the door -- I do wish I hadn ' t drunk quite so much !'
Alas !
it was too late to wish that !
She went on growing , and growing , and very soon had to kneel down on the floor : in another minute there was not even room for this , and she tried the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door , and the other arm curled round her head .
Still she went on growing , and , as a last resource , she put one arm out of the window , and one foot up the chimney , and said to herself ' Now I can do no more , whatever happens .
What WILL become of me ?'
Luckily for Alice , the little magic bottle had now had its full effect , and she grew no larger : still it was very uncomfortable , and , as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room again , no wonder she felt unhappy .
' It was much pleasanter at home ,' thought poor Alice , ' when one wasn ' t always growing larger and smaller , and being ordered about by mice and rabbits .
I almost wish I hadn ' t gone down that rabbit - hole -- and yet -- and yet -- it ' s rather curious , you know , this sort of life !
I do wonder what CAN have happened to me !
When I used to read fairy - tales , I fancied that kind of thing never happened , and now here I am in the middle of one !
There ought to be a book written about me , that there ought !
And when I grow up , I ' ll write one -- but I ' m grown up now ,' she added in a sorrowful tone ; ' at least there ' s no room to grow up any more HERE .'
' But then ,' thought Alice , ' shall I NEVER get any older than I am now ?
That ' ll be a comfort , one way -- never to be an old woman -- but then -- always to have lessons to learn !
Oh , I shouldn ' t like THAT !'
' Oh , you foolish Alice !'
she answered herself .
' How can you learn lessons in here ?
Why , there ' s hardly room for YOU , and no room at all for any lesson - books !'
And so she went on , taking first one side and then the other , and making quite a conversation of it altogether ; but after a few minutes she heard a voice outside , and stopped to listen .
' Mary Ann !
Mary Ann !'
said the voice .
' Fetch me my gloves this moment !'
Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs .
Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her , and she trembled till she shook the house , quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit , and had no reason to be afraid of it .
Presently the Rabbit came up to the door , and tried to open it ; but , as the door opened inwards , and Alice ' s elbow was pressed hard against it , that attempt proved a failure .
Alice heard it say to itself ' Then I ' ll go round and get in at the window .'
' THAT you won ' t ' thought Alice , and , after waiting till she fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window , she suddenly spread out her hand , and made a snatch in the air .
She did not get hold of anything , but she heard a little shriek and a fall , and a crash of broken glass , from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a cucumber - frame , or something of the sort .
Next came an angry voice -- the Rabbit ' s --' Pat !
Pat !
Where are you ?'
And then a voice she had never heard before , ' Sure then I ' m here !
Digging for apples , yer honour !'
' Digging for apples , indeed !'
said the Rabbit angrily .
' Here !
Come and help me out of THIS !'
( Sounds of more broken glass .)
' Now tell me , Pat , what ' s that in the window ?'
' Sure , it ' s an arm , yer honour !'
( He pronounced it ' arrum .')
' An arm , you goose !
Who ever saw one that size ?
Why , it fills the whole window !'
' Sure , it does , yer honour : but it ' s an arm for all that .'
' Well , it ' s got no business there , at any rate : go and take it away !'
There was a long silence after this , and Alice could only hear whispers now and then ; such as , ' Sure , I don ' t like it , yer honour , at all , at all !'
' Do as I tell you , you coward !'
and at last she spread out her hand again , and made another snatch in the air .
This time there were TWO little shrieks , and more sounds of broken glass .
' What a number of cucumber - frames there must be !'
thought Alice .
' I wonder what they ' ll do next !
As for pulling me out of the window , I only wish they COULD !
I ' m sure I don ' t want to stay in here any longer !'
She waited for some time without hearing anything more : at last came a rumbling of little cartwheels , and the sound of a good many voices all talking together : she made out the words : ' Where ' s the other ladder ?-- Why , I hadn ' t to bring but one ; Bill ' s got the other -- Bill !
fetch it here , lad !-- Here , put ' em up at this corner -- No , tie ' em together first -- they don ' t reach half high enough yet -- Oh !
they ' ll do well enough ; don ' t be particular -- Here , Bill !
catch hold of this rope -- Will the roof bear ?-- Mind that loose slate -- Oh , it ' s coming down !
Heads below !'
( a loud crash )--' Now , who did that ?-- It was Bill , I fancy -- Who ' s to go down the chimney ?-- Nay , I shan ' t !
YOU do it !-- That I won ' t , then !-- Bill ' s to go down -- Here , Bill !
the master says you ' re to go down the chimney !'
' Oh !
So Bill ' s got to come down the chimney , has he ?'
said Alice to herself .
' Shy , they seem to put everything upon Bill !
I wouldn ' t be in Bill ' s place for a good deal : this fireplace is narrow , to be sure ; but I THINK I can kick a little !'
She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could , and waited till she heard a little animal ( she couldn ' t guess of what sort it was ) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her : then , saying to herself ' This is Bill ,' she gave one sharp kick , and waited to see what would happen next .
The first thing she heard was a general chorus of ' There goes Bill !'
then the Rabbit ' s voice along --' Catch him , you by the hedge !'
then silence , and then another confusion of voices --' Hold up his head -- Brandy now -- Don ' t choke him -- How was it , old fellow ?
What happened to you ?
Tell us all about it !'
Last came a little feeble , squeaking voice , (' That ' s Bill ,' thought Alice ,) ' Well , I hardly know -- No more , thank ye ; I ' m better now -- but I ' m a deal too flustered to tell you -- all I know is , something comes at me like a Jack - in - the - box , and up I goes like a sky - rocket !'
' So you did , old fellow !'
said the others .
' We must burn the house down !'
said the Rabbit ' s voice ; and Alice called out as loud as she could , ' If you do .
I ' ll set Dinah at you !'
There was a dead silence instantly , and Alice thought to herself , ' I wonder what they WILL do next !
If they had any sense , they ' d take the roof off .'
After a minute or two , they began moving about again , and Alice heard the Rabbit say , ' A barrowful will do , to begin with .'
' A barrowful of WHAT ?'
thought Alice ; but she had not long to doubt , for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the window , and some of them hit her in the face .
' I ' ll put a stop to this ,' she said to herself , and shouted out , ' You ' d better not do that again !'
which produced another dead silence .
Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor , and a bright idea came into her head .
' If I eat one of these cakes ,' she thought , ' it ' s sure to make SOME change in my size ; and as it can ' t possibly make me larger , it must make me smaller , I suppose .'
So she swallowed one of the cakes , and was delighted to find that she began shrinking directly .
As soon as she was small enough to get through the door , she ran out of the house , and found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside .
The poor little Lizard , Bill , was in the middle , being held up by two guinea - pigs , who were giving it something out of a bottle .
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared ; but she ran off as hard as she could , and soon found herself safe in a thick wood .
' The first thing I ' ve got to do ,' said Alice to herself , as she wandered about in the wood , ' is to grow to my right size again ; and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden .
I think that will be the best plan .'
It sounded an excellent plan , no doubt , and very neatly and simply arranged ; the only difficulty was , that she had not the smallest idea how to set about it ; and while she was peering about anxiously among the trees , a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a great hurry .
An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes , and feebly stretching out one paw , trying to touch her .
' Poor little thing !'
said Alice , in a coaxing tone , and she tried hard to whistle to it ; but she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be hungry , in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing .
Hardly knowing what she did , she picked up a little bit of stick , and held it out to the puppy ; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once , with a yelp of delight , and rushed at the stick , and made believe to worry it ; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle , to keep herself from being run over ; and the moment she appeared on the other side , the puppy made another rush at the stick , and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it ; then Alice , thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart - horse , and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet , ran round the thistle again ; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick , running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back , and barking hoarsely all the while , till at last it sat down a good way off , panting , with its tongue hanging out of its mouth , and its great eyes half shut .
This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape ; so she set off at once , and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath , and till the puppy ' s bark sounded quite faint in the distance .
' And yet what a dear little puppy it was !'
said Alice , as she leant against a buttercup to rest herself , and fanned herself with one of the leaves : ' I should have liked teaching it tricks very much , if -- if I ' d only been the right size to do it !
Oh dear !
I ' d nearly forgotten that I ' ve got to grow up again !
Let me see -- how IS it to be managed ?
I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other ; but the great question is , what ?'
The great question certainly was , what ?
Alice looked all round her at the flowers and the blades of grass , but she did not see anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances .
There was a large mushroom growing near her , about the same height as herself ; and when she had looked under it , and on both sides of it , and behind it , it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it .
She stretched herself up on tiptoe , and peeped over the edge of the mushroom , and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar , that was sitting on the top with its arms folded , quietly smoking a long hookah , and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else .
CHAPTER V . Advice from a Caterpillar
The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in silence : at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth , and addressed her in a languid , sleepy voice .
' Who are YOU ?'
said the Caterpillar .
This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation .
Alice replied , rather shyly , ' I -- I hardly know , sir , just at present -- at least I know who I WAS when I got up this morning , but I think I must have been changed several times since then .'
' What do you mean by that ?'
said the Caterpillar sternly .
' Explain yourself !'
' I can ' t explain MYSELF , I ' m afraid , sir ' said Alice , ' because I ' m not myself , you see .'
' I don ' t see ,' said the Caterpillar .
' I ' m afraid I can ' t put it more clearly ,' Alice replied very politely , ' for I can ' t understand it myself to begin with ; and being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing .'
' It isn ' t ,' said the Caterpillar .
' Well , perhaps you haven ' t found it so yet ,' said Alice ; ' but when you have to turn into a chrysalis -- you will some day , you know -- and then after that into a butterfly , I should think you ' ll feel it a little queer , won ' t you ?'
' Not a bit ,' said the Caterpillar .
' Well , perhaps your feelings may be different ,' said Alice ; ' all I know is , it would feel very queer to ME .'
' You !'
said the Caterpillar contemptuously .
' Who are YOU ?'
Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation .
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar ' s making such VERY short remarks , and she drew herself up and said , very gravely , ' I think , you ought to tell me who YOU are , first .'
' Why ?'
said the Caterpillar .
Here was another puzzling question ; and as Alice could not think of any good reason , and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a VERY unpleasant state of mind , she turned away .
' Come back !'
the Caterpillar called after her .
' I ' ve something important to say !'
This sounded promising , certainly : Alice turned and came back again .
' Keep your temper ,' said the Caterpillar .
' Is that all ?'
said Alice , swallowing down her anger as well as she could .
' No ,' said the Caterpillar .
Alice thought she might as well wait , as she had nothing else to do , and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing .
For some minutes it puffed away without speaking , but at last it unfolded its arms , took the hookah out of its mouth again , and said , ' So you think you ' re changed , do you ?'
' I ' m afraid I am , sir ,' said Alice ; ' I can ' t remember things as I used -- and I don ' t keep the same size for ten minutes together !'
' Can ' t remember WHAT things ?'
said the Caterpillar .
' Well , I ' ve tried to say " HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE ," but it all came different !'
Alice replied in a very melancholy voice .
' Repeat , " YOU ARE OLD , FATHER WILLIAM ,"' said the Caterpillar .
Alice folded her hands , and began :--
' You are old , Father William ,' the young man said , ' And your hair has become very white ; And yet you incessantly stand on your head -- Do you think , at your age , it is right ?'
' In my youth ,' Father William replied to his son , ' I feared it might injure the brain ; But , now that I ' m perfectly sure I have none , Why , I do it again and again .'
' You are old ,' said the youth , ' as I mentioned before , And have grown most uncommonly fat ; Yet you turned a back - somersault in at the door -- Pray , what is the reason of that ?'
' In my youth ,' said the sage , as he shook his grey locks , ' I kept all my limbs very supple By the use of this ointment -- one shilling the box -- Allow me to sell you a couple ?'
' You are old ,' said the youth , ' and your jaws are too weak For anything tougher than suet ; Yet you finished the goose , with the bones and the beak -- Pray how did you manage to do it ?'
' In my youth ,' said his father , ' I took to the law , And argued each case with my wife ; And the muscular strength , which it gave to my jaw , Has lasted the rest of my life .'
' You are old ,' said the youth , ' one would hardly suppose That your eye was as steady as ever ; Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose -- What made you so awfully clever ?'
' I have answered three questions , and that is enough ,' Said his father ; ' don ' t give yourself airs !
Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff ?
Be off , or I ' ll kick you down stairs !'
' That is not said right ,' said the Caterpillar .
' Not QUITE right , I ' m afraid ,' said Alice , timidly ; ' some of the words have got altered .'
' It is wrong from beginning to end ,' said the Caterpillar decidedly , and there was silence for some minutes .
The Caterpillar was the first to speak .
' What size do you want to be ?'
it asked .
' Oh , I ' m not particular as to size ,' Alice hastily replied ; ' only one doesn ' t like changing so often , you know .'
' I DON ' T know ,' said the Caterpillar .
Alice said nothing : she had never been so much contradicted in her life before , and she felt that she was losing her temper .
' Are you content now ?'
said the Caterpillar .
' Well , I should like to be a LITTLE larger , sir , if you wouldn ' t mind ,' said Alice : ' three inches is such a wretched height to be .'
' It is a very good height indeed !'
said the Caterpillar angrily , rearing itself upright as it spoke ( it was exactly three inches high ).
' But I ' m not used to it !'
pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone .
And she thought of herself , ' I wish the creatures wouldn ' t be so easily offended !'
' You ' ll get used to it in time ,' said the Caterpillar ; and it put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again .
This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again .
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice , and shook itself .
Then it got down off the mushroom , and crawled away in the grass , merely remarking as it went , ' One side will make you grow taller , and the other side will make you grow shorter .'
' One side of WHAT ?
The other side of WHAT ?'
thought Alice to herself .
' Of the mushroom ,' said the Caterpillar , just as if she had asked it aloud ; and in another moment it was out of sight .
Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute , trying to make out which were the two sides of it ; and as it was perfectly round , she found this a very difficult question .
However , at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they would go , and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand .
' And now which is which ?'
she said to herself , and nibbled a little of the right - hand bit to try the effect : the next moment she felt a violent blow underneath her chin : it had struck her foot !
She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change , but she felt that there was no time to be lost , as she was shrinking rapidly ; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit .
Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot , that there was hardly room to open her mouth ; but she did it at last , and managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit .
* * * * * * *
* * * * * *
* * * * * * *
' Come , my head ' s free at last !'
said Alice in a tone of delight , which changed into alarm in another moment , when she found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found : all she could see , when she looked down , was an immense length of neck , which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below her .
' What CAN all that green stuff be ?'
said Alice .
' And where HAVE my shoulders got to ?
And oh , my poor hands , how is it I can ' t see you ?'
She was moving them about as she spoke , but no result seemed to follow , except a little shaking among the distant green leaves .
As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head , she tried to get her head down to them , and was delighted to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction , like a serpent .
She had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag , and was going to dive in among the leaves , which she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she had been wandering , when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a hurry : a large pigeon had flown into her face , and was beating her violently with its wings .
' Serpent !'
screamed the Pigeon .
' I ' m NOT a serpent !'
said Alice indignantly .
' Let me alone !'
' Serpent , I say again !'
repeated the Pigeon , but in a more subdued tone , and added with a kind of sob , ' I ' ve tried every way , and nothing seems to suit them !'
' I haven ' t the least idea what you ' re talking about ,' said Alice .
' I ' ve tried the roots of trees , and I ' ve tried banks , and I ' ve tried hedges ,' the Pigeon went on , without attending to her ; ' but those serpents !
There ' s no pleasing them !'
Alice was more and more puzzled , but she thought there was no use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished .
' As if it wasn ' t trouble enough hatching the eggs ,' said the Pigeon ; ' but I must be on the look - out for serpents night and day !
Why , I haven ' t had a wink of sleep these three weeks !'
' I ' m very sorry you ' ve been annoyed ,' said Alice , who was beginning to see its meaning .
' And just as I ' d taken the highest tree in the wood ,' continued the Pigeon , raising its voice to a shriek , ' and just as I was thinking I should be free of them at last , they must needs come wriggling down from the sky !
Ugh , Serpent !'
' But I ' m NOT a serpent , I tell you !'
said Alice .
' I ' m a -- I ' m a --'
' Well !
WHAT are you ?'
said the Pigeon .
' I can see you ' re trying to invent something !'
' I -- I ' m a little girl ,' said Alice , rather doubtfully , as she remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day .
' A likely story indeed !'
said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest contempt .
' I ' ve seen a good many little girls in my time , but never ONE with such a neck as that !
No , no !
You ' re a serpent ; and there ' s no use denying it .
I suppose you ' ll be telling me next that you never tasted an egg !'
' I HAVE tasted eggs , certainly ,' said Alice , who was a very truthful child ; ' but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do , you know .'
' I don ' t believe it ,' said the Pigeon ; ' but if they do , why then they ' re a kind of serpent , that ' s all I can say .'
This was such a new idea to Alice , that she was quite silent for a minute or two , which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding , ' You ' re looking for eggs , I know THAT well enough ; and what does it matter to me whether you ' re a little girl or a serpent ?'
' It matters a good deal to ME ,' said Alice hastily ; ' but I ' m not looking for eggs , as it happens ; and if I was , I shouldn ' t want YOURS : I don ' t like them raw .'
' Well , be off , then !'
said the Pigeon in a sulky tone , as it settled down again into its nest .
Alice crouched down among the trees as well as she could , for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches , and every now and then she had to stop and untwist it .
After a while she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands , and she set to work very carefully , nibbling first at one and then at the other , and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter , until she had succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height .
It was so long since she had been anything near the right size , that it felt quite strange at first ; but she got used to it in a few minutes , and began talking to herself , as usual .
' Come , there ' s half my plan done now !
How puzzling all these changes are !
I ' m never sure what I ' m going to be , from one minute to another !
However , I ' ve got back to my right size : the next thing is , to get into that beautiful garden -- how IS that to be done , I wonder ?'
As she said this , she came suddenly upon an open place , with a little house in it about four feet high .
' Whoever lives there ,' thought Alice , ' it ' ll never do to come upon them THIS size : why , I should frighten them out of their wits !'
So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again , and did not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself down to nine inches high .
CHAPTER VI .
Pig and Pepper
For a minute or two she stood looking at the house , and wondering what to do next , when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the wood --( she considered him to be a footman because he was in livery : otherwise , judging by his face only , she would have called him a fish )-- and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles .
It was opened by another footman in livery , with a round face , and large eyes like a frog ; and both footmen , Alice noticed , had powdered hair that curled all over their heads .
She felt very curious to know what it was all about , and crept a little way out of the wood to listen .
The Fish - Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter , nearly as large as himself , and this he handed over to the other , saying , in a solemn tone , ' For the Duchess .
An invitation from the Queen to play croquet .'
The Frog - Footman repeated , in the same solemn tone , only changing the order of the words a little , ' From the Queen .
An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet .'
Then they both bowed low , and their curls got entangled together .
Alice laughed so much at this , that she had to run back into the wood for fear of their hearing her ; and when she next peeped out the Fish - Footman was gone , and the other was sitting on the ground near the door , staring stupidly up into the sky .
Alice went timidly up to the door , and knocked .
' There ' s no sort of use in knocking ,' said the Footman , ' and that for two reasons .
First , because I ' m on the same side of the door as you are ; secondly , because they ' re making such a noise inside , no one could possibly hear you .'
And certainly there was a most extraordinary noise going on within -- a constant howling and sneezing , and every now and then a great crash , as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces .
' Please , then ,' said Alice , ' how am I to get in ?'
' There might be some sense in your knocking ,' the Footman went on without attending to her , ' if we had the door between us .
For instance , if you were INSIDE , you might knock , and I could let you out , you know .'
He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking , and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil .
' But perhaps he can ' t help it ,' she said to herself ; ' his eyes are so VERY nearly at the top of his head .
But at any rate he might answer questions .-- How am I to get in ?'
she repeated , aloud .
' I shall sit here ,' the Footman remarked , ' till tomorrow --'
At this moment the door of the house opened , and a large plate came skimming out , straight at the Footman ' s head : it just grazed his nose , and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him .
'-- or next day , maybe ,' the Footman continued in the same tone , exactly as if nothing had happened .
' How am I to get in ?'
asked Alice again , in a louder tone .
' ARE you to get in at all ?'
said the Footman .
' That ' s the first question , you know .'
It was , no doubt : only Alice did not like to be told so .
' It ' s really dreadful ,' she muttered to herself , ' the way all the creatures argue .
It ' s enough to drive one crazy !'
The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his remark , with variations .
' I shall sit here ,' he said , ' on and off , for days and days .'
' But what am I to do ?'
said Alice .
' Anything you like ,' said the Footman , and began whistling .
' Oh , there ' s no use in talking to him ,' said Alice desperately : ' he ' s perfectly idiotic !'
And she opened the door and went in .
The door led right into a large kitchen , which was full of smoke from one end to the other : the Duchess was sitting on a three - legged stool in the middle , nursing a baby ; the cook was leaning over the fire , stirring a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup .
' There ' s certainly too much pepper in that soup !'
Alice said to herself , as well as she could for sneezing .
There was certainly too much of it in the air .
Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally ; and as for the baby , it was sneezing and howling alternately without a moment ' s pause .
The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze , were the cook , and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from ear to ear .
' Please would you tell me ,' said Alice , a little timidly , for she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first , ' why your cat grins like that ?'
' It ' s a Cheshire cat ,' said the Duchess , ' and that ' s why .
Pig !'
She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite jumped ; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the baby , and not to her , so she took courage , and went on again :--
' I didn ' t know that Cheshire cats always grinned ; in fact , I didn ' t know that cats COULD grin .'
' They all can ,' said the Duchess ; ' and most of ' em do .'
' I don ' t know of any that do ,' Alice said very politely , feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation .
' You don ' t know much ,' said the Duchess ; ' and that ' s a fact .'
Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark , and thought it would be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation .
While she was trying to fix on one , the cook took the cauldron of soup off the fire , and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby -- the fire - irons came first ; then followed a shower of saucepans , plates , and dishes .
The Duchess took no notice of them even when they hit her ; and the baby was howling so much already , that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not .
' Oh , PLEASE mind what you ' re doing !'
cried Alice , jumping up and down in an agony of terror .
' Oh , there goes his PRECIOUS nose '; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it , and very nearly carried it off .
' If everybody minded their own business ,' the Duchess said in a hoarse growl , ' the world would go round a deal faster than it does .'
' Which would NOT be an advantage ,' said Alice , who felt very glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge .
' Just think of what work it would make with the day and night !
You see the earth takes twenty - four hours to turn round on its axis --'
' Talking of axes ,' said the Duchess , ' chop off her head !'
Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook , to see if she meant to take the hint ; but the cook was busily stirring the soup , and seemed not to be listening , so she went on again : ' Twenty - four hours , I THINK ; or is it twelve ?
I --'
' Oh , don ' t bother ME ,' said the Duchess ; ' I never could abide figures !'
And with that she began nursing her child again , singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so , and giving it a violent shake at the end of every line :
' Speak roughly to your little boy , And beat him when he sneezes : He only does it to annoy , Because he knows it teases .'
CHORUS .
( In which the cook and the baby joined ):--
' Wow !
wow !
wow !'
While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song , she kept tossing the baby violently up and down , and the poor little thing howled so , that Alice could hardly hear the words :--
' I speak severely to my boy , I beat him when he sneezes ; For he can thoroughly enjoy The pepper when he pleases !'
CHORUS .
' Wow !
wow !
wow !'
' Here !
you may nurse it a bit , if you like !'
the Duchess said to Alice , flinging the baby at her as she spoke .
' I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen ,' and she hurried out of the room .
The cook threw a frying - pan after her as she went out , but it just missed her .
Alice caught the baby with some difficulty , as it was a queer - shaped little creature , and held out its arms and legs in all directions , ' just like a star - fish ,' thought Alice .
The poor little thing was snorting like a steam - engine when she caught it , and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again , so that altogether , for the first minute or two , it was as much as she could do to hold it .
As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it , ( which was to twist it up into a sort of knot , and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot , so as to prevent its undoing itself ,) she carried it out into the open air .
' IF I don ' t take this child away with me ,' thought Alice , ' they ' re sure to kill it in a day or two : wouldn ' t it be murder to leave it behind ?'
She said the last words out loud , and the little thing grunted in reply ( it had left off sneezing by this time ).
' Don ' t grunt ,' said Alice ; ' that ' s not at all a proper way of expressing yourself .'
The baby grunted again , and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to see what was the matter with it .
There could be no doubt that it had a VERY turn - up nose , much more like a snout than a real nose ; also its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby : altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at all .
' But perhaps it was only sobbing ,' she thought , and looked into its eyes again , to see if there were any tears .
No , there were no tears .
' If you ' re going to turn into a pig , my dear ,' said Alice , seriously , ' I ' ll have nothing more to do with you .
Mind now !'
The poor little thing sobbed again ( or grunted , it was impossible to say which ), and they went on for some while in silence .
Alice was just beginning to think to herself , ' Now , what am I to do with this creature when I get it home ?'
when it grunted again , so violently , that she looked down into its face in some alarm .
This time there could be NO mistake about it : it was neither more nor less than a pig , and she felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it further .
So she set the little creature down , and felt quite relieved to see it trot away quietly into the wood .
' If it had grown up ,' she said to herself , ' it would have made a dreadfully ugly child : but it makes rather a handsome pig , I think .'
And she began thinking over other children she knew , who might do very well as pigs , and was just saying to herself , ' if one only knew the right way to change them --' when she was a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off .
The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice .
It looked good - natured , she thought : still it had VERY long claws and a great many teeth , so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect .
' Cheshire Puss ,' she began , rather timidly , as she did not at all know whether it would like the name : however , it only grinned a little wider .
' Come , it ' s pleased so far ,' thought Alice , and she went on .
' Would you tell me , please , which way I ought to go from here ?'
' That depends a good deal on where you want to get to ,' said the Cat .
' I don ' t much care where --' said Alice .
' Then it doesn ' t matter which way you go ,' said the Cat .
'-- so long as I get SOMEWHERE ,' Alice added as an explanation .
' Oh , you ' re sure to do that ,' said the Cat , ' if you only walk long enough .'
Alice felt that this could not be denied , so she tried another question .
' What sort of people live about here ?'
' In THAT direction ,' the Cat said , waving its right paw round , ' lives a Hatter : and in THAT direction ,' waving the other paw , ' lives a March Hare .
Visit either you like : they ' re both mad .'
' But I don ' t want to go among mad people ,' Alice remarked .
' Oh , you can ' t help that ,' said the Cat : ' we ' re all mad here .
I ' m mad .
You ' re mad .'
' How do you know I ' m mad ?'
said Alice .
' You must be ,' said the Cat , ' or you wouldn ' t have come here .'
Alice didn ' t think that proved it at all ; however , she went on ' And how do you know that you ' re mad ?'
' To begin with ,' said the Cat , ' a dog ' s not mad .
You grant that ?'
' I suppose so ,' said Alice .
' Well , then ,' the Cat went on , ' you see , a dog growls when it ' s angry , and wags its tail when it ' s pleased .
Now I growl when I ' m pleased , and wag my tail when I ' m angry .
Therefore I ' m mad .'
' I call it purring , not growling ,' said Alice .
' Call it what you like ,' said the Cat .
' Do you play croquet with the Queen to - day ?'
' I should like it very much ,' said Alice , ' but I haven ' t been invited yet .'
' You ' ll see me there ,' said the Cat , and vanished .
Alice was not much surprised at this , she was getting so used to queer things happening .
While she was looking at the place where it had been , it suddenly appeared again .
' By - the - bye , what became of the baby ?'
said the Cat .
' I ' d nearly forgotten to ask .'
' It turned into a pig ,' Alice quietly said , just as if it had come back in a natural way .
' I thought it would ,' said the Cat , and vanished again .
Alice waited a little , half expecting to see it again , but it did not appear , and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in which the March Hare was said to live .
' I ' ve seen hatters before ,' she said to herself ; ' the March Hare will be much the most interesting , and perhaps as this is May it won ' t be raving mad -- at least not so mad as it was in March .'
As she said this , she looked up , and there was the Cat again , sitting on a branch of a tree .
' Did you say pig , or fig ?'
said the Cat .
' I said pig ,' replied Alice ; ' and I wish you wouldn ' t keep appearing and vanishing so suddenly : you make one quite giddy .'
' All right ,' said the Cat ; and this time it vanished quite slowly , beginning with the end of the tail , and ending with the grin , which remained some time after the rest of it had gone .
' Well !
I ' ve often seen a cat without a grin ,' thought Alice ; ' but a grin without a cat !
It ' s the most curious thing I ever saw in my life !'
She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the house of the March Hare : she thought it must be the right house , because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur .
It was so large a house , that she did not like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom , and raised herself to about two feet high : even then she walked up towards it rather timidly , saying to herself ' Suppose it should be raving mad after all !
I almost wish I ' d gone to see the Hatter instead !'
CHAPTER VII .
A Mad Tea - Party
There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house , and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it : a Dormouse was sitting between them , fast asleep , and the other two were using it as a cushion , resting their elbows on it , and talking over its head .
' Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse ,' thought Alice ; ' only , as it ' s asleep , I suppose it doesn ' t mind .'
The table was a large one , but the three were all crowded together at one corner of it : ' No room !
No room !'
they cried out when they saw Alice coming .
' There ' s PLENTY of room !'
said Alice indignantly , and she sat down in a large arm - chair at one end of the table .
' Have some wine ,' the March Hare said in an encouraging tone .
Alice looked all round the table , but there was nothing on it but tea .
' I don ' t see any wine ,' she remarked .
' There isn ' t any ,' said the March Hare .
' Then it wasn ' t very civil of you to offer it ,' said Alice angrily .
' It wasn ' t very civil of you to sit down without being invited ,' said the March Hare .
' I didn ' t know it was YOUR table ,' said Alice ; ' it ' s laid for a great many more than three .'
' Your hair wants cutting ,' said the Hatter .
He had been looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity , and this was his first speech .
' You should learn not to make personal remarks ,' Alice said with some severity ; ' it ' s very rude .'
The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this ; but all he SAID was , ' Why is a raven like a writing - desk ?'
' Come , we shall have some fun now !'
thought Alice .
' I ' m glad they ' ve begun asking riddles .-- I believe I can guess that ,' she added aloud .
' Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it ?'
said the March Hare .
' Exactly so ,' said Alice .
' Then you should say what you mean ,' the March Hare went on .
' I do ,' Alice hastily replied ; ' at least -- at least I mean what I say -- that ' s the same thing , you know .'
' Not the same thing a bit !'
said the Hatter .
' You might just as well say that " I see what I eat " is the same thing as " I eat what I see "!'
' You might just as well say ,' added the March Hare , ' that " I like what I get " is the same thing as " I get what I like "!'
' You might just as well say ,' added the Dormouse , who seemed to be talking in his sleep , ' that " I breathe when I sleep " is the same thing as " I sleep when I breathe "!'
' It IS the same thing with you ,' said the Hatter , and here the conversation dropped , and the party sat silent for a minute , while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing - desks , which wasn ' t much .
The Hatter was the first to break the silence .
' What day of the month is it ?'
he said , turning to Alice : he had taken his watch out of his pocket , and was looking at it uneasily , shaking it every now and then , and holding it to his ear .
Alice considered a little , and then said ' The fourth .'
' Two days wrong !'
sighed the Hatter .
' I told you butter wouldn ' t suit the works !'
he added looking angrily at the March Hare .
' It was the BEST butter ,' the March Hare meekly replied .
' Yes , but some crumbs must have got in as well ,' the Hatter grumbled : ' you shouldn ' t have put it in with the bread - knife .'
The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily : then he dipped it into his cup of tea , and looked at it again : but he could think of nothing better to say than his first remark , ' It was the BEST butter , you know .'
Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity .
' What a funny watch !'
she remarked .
' It tells the day of the month , and doesn ' t tell what o ' clock it is !'
' Why should it ?'
muttered the Hatter .
' Does YOUR watch tell you what year it is ?'
' Of course not ,' Alice replied very readily : ' but that ' s because it stays the same year for such a long time together .'
' Which is just the case with MINE ,' said the Hatter .
Alice felt dreadfully puzzled .
The Hatter ' s remark seemed to have no sort of meaning in it , and yet it was certainly English .
' I don ' t quite understand you ,' she said , as politely as she could .
' The Dormouse is asleep again ,' said the Hatter , and he poured a little hot tea upon its nose .
The Dormouse shook its head impatiently , and said , without opening its eyes , ' Of course , of course ; just what I was going to remark myself .'
' Have you guessed the riddle yet ?'
the Hatter said , turning to Alice again .
' No , I give it up ,' Alice replied : ' what ' s the answer ?'
' I haven ' t the slightest idea ,' said the Hatter .
' Nor I ,' said the March Hare .
Alice sighed wearily .
' I think you might do something better with the time ,' she said , ' than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers .'
' If you knew Time as well as I do ,' said the Hatter , ' you wouldn ' t talk about wasting IT .
It ' s HIM .'
' I don ' t know what you mean ,' said Alice .
' Of course you don ' t !'
the Hatter said , tossing his head contemptuously .
' I dare say you never even spoke to Time !'
' Perhaps not ,' Alice cautiously replied : ' but I know I have to beat time when I learn music .'
' Ah !
that accounts for it ,' said the Hatter .
' He won ' t stand beating .
Now , if you only kept on good terms with him , he ' d do almost anything you liked with the clock .
For instance , suppose it were nine o ' clock in the morning , just time to begin lessons : you ' d only have to whisper a hint to Time , and round goes the clock in a twinkling !
Half - past one , time for dinner !'
(' I only wish it was ,' the March Hare said to itself in a whisper .)
' That would be grand , certainly ,' said Alice thoughtfully : ' but then -- I shouldn ' t be hungry for it , you know .'
' Not at first , perhaps ,' said the Hatter : ' but you could keep it to half - past one as long as you liked .'
' Is that the way YOU manage ?'
Alice asked .
The Hatter shook his head mournfully .
' Not I !'
he replied .
' We quarrelled last March -- just before HE went mad , you know --' ( pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare ,) '-- it was at the great concert given by the Queen of Hearts , and I had to sing
" Twinkle , twinkle , little bat !
How I wonder what you ' re at !"
You know the song , perhaps ?'
' I ' ve heard something like it ,' said Alice .
' It goes on , you know ,' the Hatter continued , ' in this way :--
" Up above the world you fly , Like a tea - tray in the sky .
Twinkle , twinkle --"'
Here the Dormouse shook itself , and began singing in its sleep ' Twinkle , twinkle , twinkle , twinkle --' and went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop .
' Well , I ' d hardly finished the first verse ,' said the Hatter , ' when the Queen jumped up and bawled out , " He ' s murdering the time !
Off with his head !"'
' How dreadfully savage !'
exclaimed Alice .
' And ever since that ,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone , ' he won ' t do a thing I ask !
It ' s always six o ' clock now .'
A bright idea came into Alice ' s head .
' Is that the reason so many tea - things are put out here ?'
she asked .
' Yes , that ' s it ,' said the Hatter with a sigh : ' it ' s always tea - time , and we ' ve no time to wash the things between whiles .'
' Then you keep moving round , I suppose ?'
said Alice .
' Exactly so ,' said the Hatter : ' as the things get used up .'
' But what happens when you come to the beginning again ?'
Alice ventured to ask .
' Suppose we change the subject ,' the March Hare interrupted , yawning .
' I ' m getting tired of this .
I vote the young lady tells us a story .'
' I ' m afraid I don ' t know one ,' said Alice , rather alarmed at the proposal .
' Then the Dormouse shall !'
they both cried .
' Wake up , Dormouse !'
And they pinched it on both sides at once .
The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes .
' I wasn ' t asleep ,' he said in a hoarse , feeble voice : ' I heard every word you fellows were saying .'
' Tell us a story !'
said the March Hare .
' Yes , please do !'
pleaded Alice .
' And be quick about it ,' added the Hatter , ' or you ' ll be asleep again before it ' s done .'
' Once upon a time there were three little sisters ,' the Dormouse began in a great hurry ; ' and their names were Elsie , Lacie , and Tillie ; and they lived at the bottom of a well --'
' What did they live on ?'
said Alice , who always took a great interest in questions of eating and drinking .
' They lived on treacle ,' said the Dormouse , after thinking a minute or two .
' They couldn ' t have done that , you know ,' Alice gently remarked ; ' they ' d have been ill .'
' So they were ,' said the Dormouse ; ' VERY ill .'
Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways of living would be like , but it puzzled her too much , so she went on : ' But why did they live at the bottom of a well ?'
' Take some more tea ,' the March Hare said to Alice , very earnestly .
' I ' ve had nothing yet ,' Alice replied in an offended tone , ' so I can ' t take more .'
' You mean you can ' t take LESS ,' said the Hatter : ' it ' s very easy to take MORE than nothing .'
' Nobody asked YOUR opinion ,' said Alice .
' Who ' s making personal remarks now ?'
the Hatter asked triumphantly .
Alice did not quite know what to say to this : so she helped herself to some tea and bread - and - butter , and then turned to the Dormouse , and repeated her question .
' Why did they live at the bottom of a well ?'
The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it , and then said , ' It was a treacle - well .'
' There ' s no such thing !'
Alice was beginning very angrily , but the Hatter and the March Hare went ' Sh !
sh !'
and the Dormouse sulkily remarked , ' If you can ' t be civil , you ' d better finish the story for yourself .'
' No , please go on !'
Alice said very humbly ; ' I won ' t interrupt again .
I dare say there may be ONE .'
' One , indeed !'
said the Dormouse indignantly .
However , he consented to go on .
' And so these three little sisters -- they were learning to draw , you know --'
' What did they draw ?'
said Alice , quite forgetting her promise .
' Treacle ,' said the Dormouse , without considering at all this time .
' I want a clean cup ,' interrupted the Hatter : ' let ' s all move one place on .'
He moved on as he spoke , and the Dormouse followed him : the March Hare moved into the Dormouse ' s place , and Alice rather unwillingly took the place of the March Hare .
The Hatter was the only one who got any advantage from the change : and Alice was a good deal worse off than before , as the March Hare had just upset the milk - jug into his plate .
Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again , so she began very cautiously : ' But I don ' t understand .
Where did they draw the treacle from ?'
' You can draw water out of a water - well ,' said the Hatter ; ' so I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle - well -- eh , stupid ?'
' But they were IN the well ,' Alice said to the Dormouse , not choosing to notice this last remark .
' Of course they were ', said the Dormouse ; '-- well in .'
This answer so confused poor Alice , that she let the Dormouse go on for some time without interrupting it .
' They were learning to draw ,' the Dormouse went on , yawning and rubbing its eyes , for it was getting very sleepy ; ' and they drew all manner of things -- everything that begins with an M --'
' Why with an M ?'
said Alice .
' Why not ?'
said the March Hare .
Alice was silent .
The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time , and was going off into a doze ; but , on being pinched by the Hatter , it woke up again with a little shriek , and went on : '-- that begins with an M , such as mouse - traps , and the moon , and memory , and muchness -- you know you say things are " much of a muchness "-- did you ever see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness ?'
' Really , now you ask me ,' said Alice , very much confused , ' I don ' t think --'
' Then you shouldn ' t talk ,' said the Hatter .
This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear : she got up in great disgust , and walked off ; the Dormouse fell asleep instantly , and neither of the others took the least notice of her going , though she looked back once or twice , half hoping that they would call after her : the last time she saw them , they were trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot .
' At any rate I ' ll never go THERE again !'
said Alice as she picked her way through the wood .
' It ' s the stupidest tea - party I ever was at in all my life !'
Just as she said this , she noticed that one of the trees had a door leading right into it .
' That ' s very curious !'
she thought .
' But everything ' s curious today .
I think I may as well go in at once .'
And in she went .
Once more she found herself in the long hall , and close to the little glass table .
' Now , I ' ll manage better this time ,' she said to herself , and began by taking the little golden key , and unlocking the door that led into the garden .
Then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom ( she had kept a piece of it in her pocket ) till she was about a foot high : then she walked down the little passage : and THEN -- she found herself at last in the beautiful garden , among the bright flower - beds and the cool fountains .
CHAPTER VIII .
The Queen ' s Croquet - Ground
A large rose - tree stood near the entrance of the garden : the roses growing on it were white , but there were three gardeners at it , busily painting them red .
Alice thought this a very curious thing , and she went nearer to watch them , and just as she came up to them she heard one of them say , ' Look out now , Five !
Don ' t go splashing paint over me like that !'
' I couldn ' t help it ,' said Five , in a sulky tone ; ' Seven jogged my elbow .'
On which Seven looked up and said , ' That ' s right , Five !
Always lay the blame on others !'
' YOU ' D better not talk !'
said Five .
' I heard the Queen say only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded !'
' What for ?'
said the one who had spoken first .
' That ' s none of YOUR business , Two !'
said Seven .
' Yes , it IS his business !'
said Five , ' and I ' ll tell him -- it was for bringing the cook tulip - roots instead of onions .'
Seven flung down his brush , and had just begun ' Well , of all the unjust things --' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice , as she stood watching them , and he checked himself suddenly : the others looked round also , and all of them bowed low .
' Would you tell me ,' said Alice , a little timidly , ' why you are painting those roses ?'
Five and Seven said nothing , but looked at Two .
Two began in a low voice , ' Why the fact is , you see , Miss , this here ought to have been a RED rose - tree , and we put a white one in by mistake ; and if the Queen was to find it out , we should all have our heads cut off , you know .
So you see , Miss , we ' re doing our best , afore she comes , to --' At this moment Five , who had been anxiously looking across the garden , called out ' The Queen !
The Queen !'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces .
There was a sound of many footsteps , and Alice looked round , eager to see the Queen .
First came ten soldiers carrying clubs ; these were all shaped like the three gardeners , oblong and flat , with their hands and feet at the corners : next the ten courtiers ; these were ornamented all over with diamonds , and walked two and two , as the soldiers did .
After these came the royal children ; there were ten of them , and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand in hand , in couples : they were all ornamented with hearts .
Next came the guests , mostly Kings and Queens , and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit : it was talking in a hurried nervous manner , smiling at everything that was said , and went by without noticing her .
Then followed the Knave of Hearts , carrying the King ' s crown on a crimson velvet cushion ; and , last of all this grand procession , came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS .
Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face like the three gardeners , but she could not remember ever having heard of such a rule at processions ; ' and besides , what would be the use of a procession ,' thought she , ' if people had all to lie down upon their faces , so that they couldn ' t see it ?'
So she stood still where she was , and waited .
When the procession came opposite to Alice , they all stopped and looked at her , and the Queen said severely ' Who is this ?'
She said it to the Knave of Hearts , who only bowed and smiled in reply .
' Idiot !'
said the Queen , tossing her head impatiently ; and , turning to Alice , she went on , ' What ' s your name , child ?'
' My name is Alice , so please your Majesty ,' said Alice very politely ; but she added , to herself , ' Why , they ' re only a pack of cards , after all .
I needn ' t be afraid of them !'
' And who are THESE ?'
said the Queen , pointing to the three gardeners who were lying round the rosetree ; for , you see , as they were lying on their faces , and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the pack , she could not tell whether they were gardeners , or soldiers , or courtiers , or three of her own children .
' How should I know ?'
said Alice , surprised at her own courage .
' It ' s no business of MINE .'
The Queen turned crimson with fury , and , after glaring at her for a moment like a wild beast , screamed ' Off with her head !
Off --'
' Nonsense !'
said Alice , very loudly and decidedly , and the Queen was silent .
The King laid his hand upon her arm , and timidly said ' Consider , my dear : she is only a child !'
The Queen turned angrily away from him , and said to the Knave ' Turn them over !'
The Knave did so , very carefully , with one foot .
' Get up !'
said the Queen , in a shrill , loud voice , and the three gardeners instantly jumped up , and began bowing to the King , the Queen , the royal children , and everybody else .
' Leave off that !'
screamed the Queen .
' You make me giddy .'
And then , turning to the rose - tree , she went on , ' What HAVE you been doing here ?'
' May it please your Majesty ,' said Two , in a very humble tone , going down on one knee as he spoke , ' we were trying --'
' I see !'
said the Queen , who had meanwhile been examining the roses .
' Off with their heads !'
and the procession moved on , three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners , who ran to Alice for protection .
' You shan ' t be beheaded !'
said Alice , and she put them into a large flower - pot that stood near .
The three soldiers wandered about for a minute or two , looking for them , and then quietly marched off after the others .
' Are their heads off ?'
shouted the Queen .
' Their heads are gone , if it please your Majesty !'
the soldiers shouted in reply .
' That ' s right !'
shouted the Queen .
' Can you play croquet ?'
The soldiers were silent , and looked at Alice , as the question was evidently meant for her .
' Yes !'
shouted Alice .
' Come on , then !'
roared the Queen , and Alice joined the procession , wondering very much what would happen next .
' It ' s -- it ' s a very fine day !'
said a timid voice at her side .
She was walking by the White Rabbit , who was peeping anxiously into her face .
' Very ,' said Alice : '-- where ' s the Duchess ?'
' Hush !
Hush !'
said the Rabbit in a low , hurried tone .
He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke , and then raised himself upon tiptoe , put his mouth close to her ear , and whispered ' She ' s under sentence of execution .'
' What for ?'
said Alice .
' Did you say " What a pity !"?'
the Rabbit asked .
' No , I didn ' t ,' said Alice : ' I don ' t think it ' s at all a pity .
I said " What for ?"'
' She boxed the Queen ' s ears --' the Rabbit began .
Alice gave a little scream of laughter .
' Oh , hush !'
the Rabbit whispered in a frightened tone .
' The Queen will hear you !
You see , she came rather late , and the Queen said --'
' Get to your places !'
shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder , and people began running about in all directions , tumbling up against each other ; however , they got settled down in a minute or two , and the game began .
Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet - ground in her life ; it was all ridges and furrows ; the balls were live hedgehogs , the mallets live flamingoes , and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet , to make the arches .
The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo : she succeeded in getting its body tucked away , comfortably enough , under her arm , with its legs hanging down , but generally , just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out , and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head , it WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face , with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing : and when she had got its head down , and was going to begin again , it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself , and was in the act of crawling away : besides all this , there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to , and , as the doubled - up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground , Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed .
The players all played at once without waiting for turns , quarrelling all the while , and fighting for the hedgehogs ; and in a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion , and went stamping about , and shouting ' Off with his head !'
or ' Off with her head !'
about once in a minute .
Alice began to feel very uneasy : to be sure , she had not as yet had any dispute with the Queen , but she knew that it might happen any minute , ' and then ,' thought she , ' what would become of me ?
They ' re dreadfully fond of beheading people here ; the great wonder is , that there ' s any one left alive !'
She was looking about for some way of escape , and wondering whether she could get away without being seen , when she noticed a curious appearance in the air : it puzzled her very much at first , but , after watching it a minute or two , she made it out to be a grin , and she said to herself ' It ' s the Cheshire Cat : now I shall have somebody to talk to .'
' How are you getting on ?'
said the Cat , as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with .
Alice waited till the eyes appeared , and then nodded .
' It ' s no use speaking to it ,' she thought , ' till its ears have come , or at least one of them .'
In another minute the whole head appeared , and then Alice put down her flamingo , and began an account of the game , feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her .
The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight , and no more of it appeared .
' I don ' t think they play at all fairly ,' Alice began , in rather a complaining tone , ' and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can ' t hear oneself speak -- and they don ' t seem to have any rules in particular ; at least , if there are , nobody attends to them -- and you ' ve no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive ; for instance , there ' s the arch I ' ve got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground -- and I should have croqueted the Queen ' s hedgehog just now , only it ran away when it saw mine coming !'
' How do you like the Queen ?'
said the Cat in a low voice .
' Not at all ,' said Alice : ' she ' s so extremely --' Just then she noticed that the Queen was close behind her , listening : so she went on , '-- likely to win , that it ' s hardly worth while finishing the game .'
The Queen smiled and passed on .
' Who ARE you talking to ?'
said the King , going up to Alice , and looking at the Cat ' s head with great curiosity .
' It ' s a friend of mine -- a Cheshire Cat ,' said Alice : ' allow me to introduce it .'
' I don ' t like the look of it at all ,' said the King : ' however , it may kiss my hand if it likes .'
' I ' d rather not ,' the Cat remarked .
' Don ' t be impertinent ,' said the King , ' and don ' t look at me like that !'
He got behind Alice as he spoke .
' A cat may look at a king ,' said Alice .
' I ' ve read that in some book , but I don ' t remember where .'
' Well , it must be removed ,' said the King very decidedly , and he called the Queen , who was passing at the moment , ' My dear !
I wish you would have this cat removed !'
The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties , great or small .
' Off with his head !'
she said , without even looking round .
' I ' ll fetch the executioner myself ,' said the King eagerly , and he hurried off .
Alice thought she might as well go back , and see how the game was going on , as she heard the Queen ' s voice in the distance , screaming with passion .
She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns , and she did not like the look of things at all , as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not .
So she went in search of her hedgehog .
The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog , which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other : the only difficulty was , that her flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden , where Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree .
By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back , the fight was over , and both the hedgehogs were out of sight : ' but it doesn ' t matter much ,' thought Alice , ' as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground .'
So she tucked it away under her arm , that it might not escape again , and went back for a little more conversation with her friend .
When she got back to the Cheshire Cat , she was surprised to find quite a large crowd collected round it : there was a dispute going on between the executioner , the King , and the Queen , who were all talking at once , while all the rest were quite silent , and looked very uncomfortable .
The moment Alice appeared , she was appealed to by all three to settle the question , and they repeated their arguments to her , though , as they all spoke at once , she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said .
The executioner ' s argument was , that you couldn ' t cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from : that he had never had to do such a thing before , and he wasn ' t going to begin at HIS time of life .
The King ' s argument was , that anything that had a head could be beheaded , and that you weren ' t to talk nonsense .
The Queen ' s argument was , that if something wasn ' t done about it in less than no time she ' d have everybody executed , all round .
( It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious .)
Alice could think of nothing else to say but ' It belongs to the Duchess : you ' d better ask HER about it .'
' She ' s in prison ,' the Queen said to the executioner : ' fetch her here .'
And the executioner went off like an arrow .
The Cat ' s head began fading away the moment he was gone , and , by the time he had come back with the Duchess , it had entirely disappeared ; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it , while the rest of the party went back to the game .
CHAPTER IX .
The Mock Turtle ' s Story
' You can ' t think how glad I am to see you again , you dear old thing !'
said the Duchess , as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice ' s , and they walked off together .
Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper , and thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so savage when they met in the kitchen .
' When I ' M a Duchess ,' she said to herself , ( not in a very hopeful tone though ), ' I won ' t have any pepper in my kitchen AT ALL .
Soup does very well without -- Maybe it ' s always pepper that makes people hot - tempered ,' she went on , very much pleased at having found out a new kind of rule , ' and vinegar that makes them sour -- and camomile that makes them bitter -- and -- and barley - sugar and such things that make children sweet - tempered .
I only wish people knew that : then they wouldn ' t be so stingy about it , you know --'
She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time , and was a little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear .
' You ' re thinking about something , my dear , and that makes you forget to talk .
I can ' t tell you just now what the moral of that is , but I shall remember it in a bit .'
' Perhaps it hasn ' t one ,' Alice ventured to remark .
' Tut , tut , child !'
said the Duchess .
' Everything ' s got a moral , if only you can find it .'
And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice ' s side as she spoke .
Alice did not much like keeping so close to her : first , because the Duchess was VERY ugly ; and secondly , because she was exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice ' s shoulder , and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin .
However , she did not like to be rude , so she bore it as well as she could .
' The game ' s going on rather better now ,' she said , by way of keeping up the conversation a little .
'' Tis so ,' said the Duchess : ' and the moral of that is --" Oh , ' tis love , ' tis love , that makes the world go round !"'
' Somebody said ,' Alice whispered , ' that it ' s done by everybody minding their own business !'
' Ah , well !
It means much the same thing ,' said the Duchess , digging her sharp little chin into Alice ' s shoulder as she added , ' and the moral of THAT is --" Take care of the sense , and the sounds will take care of themselves ."'
' How fond she is of finding morals in things !'
Alice thought to herself .
' I dare say you ' re wondering why I don ' t put my arm round your waist ,' the Duchess said after a pause : ' the reason is , that I ' m doubtful about the temper of your flamingo .
Shall I try the experiment ?'
' HE might bite ,' Alice cautiously replied , not feeling at all anxious to have the experiment tried .
' Very true ,' said the Duchess : ' flamingoes and mustard both bite .
And the moral of that is --" Birds of a feather flock together ."'
' Only mustard isn ' t a bird ,' Alice remarked .
' Right , as usual ,' said the Duchess : ' what a clear way you have of putting things !'
' It ' s a mineral , I THINK ,' said Alice .
' Of course it is ,' said the Duchess , who seemed ready to agree to everything that Alice said ; ' there ' s a large mustard - mine near here .
And the moral of that is --" The more there is of mine , the less there is of yours ."'
' Oh , I know !'
exclaimed Alice , who had not attended to this last remark , ' it ' s a vegetable .
It doesn ' t look like one , but it is .'
' I quite agree with you ,' said the Duchess ; ' and the moral of that is --" Be what you would seem to be "-- or if you ' d like it put more simply --" Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise ."'
' I think I should understand that better ,' Alice said very politely , ' if I had it written down : but I can ' t quite follow it as you say it .'
' That ' s nothing to what I could say if I chose ,' the Duchess replied , in a pleased tone .
' Pray don ' t trouble yourself to say it any longer than that ,' said Alice .
' Oh , don ' t talk about trouble !'
said the Duchess .
' I make you a present of everything I ' ve said as yet .'
' A cheap sort of present !'
thought Alice .
' I ' m glad they don ' t give birthday presents like that !'
But she did not venture to say it out loud .
' Thinking again ?'
the Duchess asked , with another dig of her sharp little chin .
' I ' ve a right to think ,' said Alice sharply , for she was beginning to feel a little worried .
' Just about as much right ,' said the Duchess , ' as pigs have to fly ; and the m --'
But here , to Alice ' s great surprise , the Duchess ' s voice died away , even in the middle of her favourite word ' moral ,' and the arm that was linked into hers began to tremble .
Alice looked up , and there stood the Queen in front of them , with her arms folded , frowning like a thunderstorm .
' A fine day , your Majesty !'
the Duchess began in a low , weak voice .
' Now , I give you fair warning ,' shouted the Queen , stamping on the ground as she spoke ; ' either you or your head must be off , and that in about half no time !
Take your choice !'
The Duchess took her choice , and was gone in a moment .
' Let ' s go on with the game ,' the Queen said to Alice ; and Alice was too much frightened to say a word , but slowly followed her back to the croquet - ground .
The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen ' s absence , and were resting in the shade : however , the moment they saw her , they hurried back to the game , the Queen merely remarking that a moment ' s delay would cost them their lives .
All the time they were playing the Queen never left off quarrelling with the other players , and shouting ' Off with his head !'
or ' Off with her head !'
Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by the soldiers , who of course had to leave off being arches to do this , so that by the end of half an hour or so there were no arches left , and all the players , except the King , the Queen , and Alice , were in custody and under sentence of execution .
Then the Queen left off , quite out of breath , and said to Alice , ' Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet ?'
' No ,' said Alice .
' I don ' t even know what a Mock Turtle is .'
' It ' s the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from ,' said the Queen .
' I never saw one , or heard of one ,' said Alice .
' Come on , then ,' said the Queen , ' and he shall tell you his history ,'
As they walked off together , Alice heard the King say in a low voice , to the company generally , ' You are all pardoned .'
' Come , THAT ' S a good thing !'
she said to herself , for she had felt quite unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered .
They very soon came upon a Gryphon , lying fast asleep in the sun .
( IF you don ' t know what a Gryphon is , look at the picture .)
' Up , lazy thing !'
said the Queen , ' and take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle , and to hear his history .
I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered '; and she walked off , leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon .
Alice did not quite like the look of the creature , but on the whole she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage Queen : so she waited .
The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes : then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight : then it chuckled .
' What fun !'
said the Gryphon , half to itself , half to Alice .
' What IS the fun ?'
said Alice .
' Why , SHE ,' said the Gryphon .
' It ' s all her fancy , that : they never executes nobody , you know .
Come on !'
' Everybody says " come on !"
here ,' thought Alice , as she went slowly after it : ' I never was so ordered about in all my life , never !'
They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance , sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock , and , as they came nearer , Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart would break .
She pitied him deeply .
' What is his sorrow ?'
she asked the Gryphon , and the Gryphon answered , very nearly in the same words as before , ' It ' s all his fancy , that : he hasn ' t got no sorrow , you know .
Come on !'
So they went up to the Mock Turtle , who looked at them with large eyes full of tears , but said nothing .
' This here young lady ,' said the Gryphon , ' she wants for to know your history , she do .'
' I ' ll tell it her ,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep , hollow tone : ' sit down , both of you , and don ' t speak a word till I ' ve finished .'
So they sat down , and nobody spoke for some minutes .
Alice thought to herself , ' I don ' t see how he can EVEN finish , if he doesn ' t begin .'
But she waited patiently .
' Once ,' said the Mock Turtle at last , with a deep sigh , ' I was a real Turtle .'
These words were followed by a very long silence , broken only by an occasional exclamation of ' Hjckrrh !'
from the Gryphon , and the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle .
Alice was very nearly getting up and saying , ' Thank you , sir , for your interesting story ,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be more to come , so she sat still and said nothing .
' When we were little ,' the Mock Turtle went on at last , more calmly , though still sobbing a little now and then , ' we went to school in the sea .
The master was an old Turtle -- we used to call him Tortoise --'
' Why did you call him Tortoise , if he wasn ' t one ?'
Alice asked .
' We called him Tortoise because he taught us ,' said the Mock Turtle angrily : ' really you are very dull !'
' You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple question ,' added the Gryphon ; and then they both sat silent and looked at poor Alice , who felt ready to sink into the earth .
At last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle , ' Drive on , old fellow !
Don ' t be all day about it !'
and he went on in these words :
' Yes , we went to school in the sea , though you mayn ' t believe it --'
' I never said I didn ' t !'
interrupted Alice .
' You did ,' said the Mock Turtle .
' Hold your tongue !'
added the Gryphon , before Alice could speak again .
The Mock Turtle went on .
' We had the best of educations -- in fact , we went to school every day --'
' I ' VE been to a day - school , too ,' said Alice ; ' you needn ' t be so proud as all that .'
' With extras ?'
asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously .
' Yes ,' said Alice , ' we learned French and music .'
' And washing ?'
said the Mock Turtle .
' Certainly not !'
said Alice indignantly .
' Ah !
then yours wasn ' t a really good school ,' said the Mock Turtle in a tone of great relief .
' Now at OURS they had at the end of the bill , " French , music , AND WASHING -- extra ."'
' You couldn ' t have wanted it much ,' said Alice ; ' living at the bottom of the sea .'
' I couldn ' t afford to learn it .'
said the Mock Turtle with a sigh .
' I only took the regular course .'
' What was that ?'
inquired Alice .
' Reeling and Writhing , of course , to begin with ,' the Mock Turtle replied ; ' and then the different branches of Arithmetic -- Ambition , Distraction , Uglification , and Derision .'
' I never heard of " Uglification ,"' Alice ventured to say .
' What is it ?'
The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise .
' What !
Never heard of uglifying !'
it exclaimed .
' You know what to beautify is , I suppose ?'
' Yes ,' said Alice doubtfully : ' it means -- to -- make -- anything -- prettier .'
' Well , then ,' the Gryphon went on , ' if you don ' t know what to uglify is , you ARE a simpleton .'
Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it , so she turned to the Mock Turtle , and said ' What else had you to learn ?'
' Well , there was Mystery ,' the Mock Turtle replied , counting off the subjects on his flappers , '-- Mystery , ancient and modern , with Seaography : then Drawling -- the Drawling - master was an old conger - eel , that used to come once a week : HE taught us Drawling , Stretching , and Fainting in Coils .'
' What was THAT like ?'
said Alice .
' Well , I can ' t show it you myself ,' the Mock Turtle said : ' I ' m too stiff .
And the Gryphon never learnt it .'
' Hadn ' t time ,' said the Gryphon : ' I went to the Classics master , though .
He was an old crab , HE was .'
' I never went to him ,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh : ' he taught Laughing and Grief , they used to say .'
' So he did , so he did ,' said the Gryphon , sighing in his turn ; and both creatures hid their faces in their paws .
' And how many hours a day did you do lessons ?'
said Alice , in a hurry to change the subject .
' Ten hours the first day ,' said the Mock Turtle : ' nine the next , and so on .'
' What a curious plan !'
exclaimed Alice .
' That ' s the reason they ' re called lessons ,' the Gryphon remarked : ' because they lessen from day to day .'
This was quite a new idea to Alice , and she thought it over a little before she made her next remark .
' Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday ?'
' Of course it was ,' said the Mock Turtle .
' And how did you manage on the twelfth ?'
Alice went on eagerly .
' That ' s enough about lessons ,' the Gryphon interrupted in a very decided tone : ' tell her something about the games now .'
CHAPTER X .
The Lobster Quadrille
The Mock Turtle sighed deeply , and drew the back of one flapper across his eyes .
He looked at Alice , and tried to speak , but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice .
' Same as if he had a bone in his throat ,' said the Gryphon : and it set to work shaking him and punching him in the back .
At last the Mock Turtle recovered his voice , and , with tears running down his cheeks , he went on again :--
' You may not have lived much under the sea --' (' I haven ' t ,' said Alice )--' and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster --' ( Alice began to say ' I once tasted --' but checked herself hastily , and said ' No , never ') '-- so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille is !'
' No , indeed ,' said Alice .
' What sort of a dance is it ?'
' Why ,' said the Gryphon , ' you first form into a line along the sea - shore --'
' Two lines !'
cried the Mock Turtle .
' Seals , turtles , salmon , and so on ; then , when you ' ve cleared all the jelly - fish out of the way --'
' THAT generally takes some time ,' interrupted the Gryphon .
'-- you advance twice --'
' Each with a lobster as a partner !'
cried the Gryphon .
' Of course ,' the Mock Turtle said : ' advance twice , set to partners --'
'-- change lobsters , and retire in same order ,' continued the Gryphon .
' Then , you know ,' the Mock Turtle went on , ' you throw the --'
' The lobsters !'
shouted the Gryphon , with a bound into the air .
'-- as far out to sea as you can --'
' Swim after them !'
screamed the Gryphon .
' Turn a somersault in the sea !'
cried the Mock Turtle , capering wildly about .
' Change lobsters again !'
yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice .
' Back to land again , and that ' s all the first figure ,' said the Mock Turtle , suddenly dropping his voice ; and the two creatures , who had been jumping about like mad things all this time , sat down again very sadly and quietly , and looked at Alice .
' It must be a very pretty dance ,' said Alice timidly .
' Would you like to see a little of it ?'
said the Mock Turtle .
' Very much indeed ,' said Alice .
' Come , let ' s try the first figure !'
said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon .
' We can do without lobsters , you know .
Which shall sing ?'
' Oh , YOU sing ,' said the Gryphon .
' I ' ve forgotten the words .'
So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice , every now and then treading on her toes when they passed too close , and waving their forepaws to mark the time , while the Mock Turtle sang this , very slowly and sadly :--
'" Will you walk a little faster ?"
said a whiting to a snail .
" There ' s a porpoise close behind us , and he ' s treading on my tail .
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance !
They are waiting on the shingle -- will you come and join the dance ?
Will you , won ' t you , will you , won ' t you , will you join the dance ?
Will you , won ' t you , will you , won ' t you , won ' t you join the dance ?
" You can really have no notion how delightful it will be When they take us up and throw us , with the lobsters , out to sea !"
But the snail replied " Too far , too far !"
and gave a look askance -- Said he thanked the whiting kindly , but he would not join the dance .
Would not , could not , would not , could not , would not join the dance .
Would not , could not , would not , could not , could not join the dance .
'" What matters it how far we go ?"
his scaly friend replied .
" There is another shore , you know , upon the other side .
The further off from England the nearer is to France -- Then turn not pale , beloved snail , but come and join the dance .
Will you , won ' t you , will you , won ' t you , will you join the dance ?
Will you , won ' t you , will you , won ' t you , won ' t you join the dance ?"'
' Thank you , it ' s a very interesting dance to watch ,' said Alice , feeling very glad that it was over at last : ' and I do so like that curious song about the whiting !'
' Oh , as to the whiting ,' said the Mock Turtle , ' they -- you ' ve seen them , of course ?'
' Yes ,' said Alice , ' I ' ve often seen them at dinn --' she checked herself hastily .
' I don ' t know where Dinn may be ,' said the Mock Turtle , ' but if you ' ve seen them so often , of course you know what they ' re like .'
' I believe so ,' Alice replied thoughtfully .
' They have their tails in their mouths -- and they ' re all over crumbs .'
' You ' re wrong about the crumbs ,' said the Mock Turtle : ' crumbs would all wash off in the sea .
But they HAVE their tails in their mouths ; and the reason is --' here the Mock Turtle yawned and shut his eyes .--' Tell her about the reason and all that ,' he said to the Gryphon .
' The reason is ,' said the Gryphon , ' that they WOULD go with the lobsters to the dance .
So they got thrown out to sea .
So they had to fall a long way .
So they got their tails fast in their mouths .
So they couldn ' t get them out again .
That ' s all .'
' Thank you ,' said Alice , ' it ' s very interesting .
I never knew so much about a whiting before .'
' I can tell you more than that , if you like ,' said the Gryphon .
' Do you know why it ' s called a whiting ?'
' I never thought about it ,' said Alice .
' Why ?'
' IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES .'
the Gryphon replied very solemnly .
Alice was thoroughly puzzled .
' Does the boots and shoes !'
she repeated in a wondering tone .
' Why , what are YOUR shoes done with ?'
said the Gryphon .
' I mean , what makes them so shiny ?'
Alice looked down at them , and considered a little before she gave her answer .
' They ' re done with blacking , I believe .'
' Boots and shoes under the sea ,' the Gryphon went on in a deep voice , ' are done with a whiting .
Now you know .'
' And what are they made of ?'
Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity .
' Soles and eels , of course ,' the Gryphon replied rather impatiently : ' any shrimp could have told you that .'
' If I ' d been the whiting ,' said Alice , whose thoughts were still running on the song , ' I ' d have said to the porpoise , " Keep back , please : we don ' t want YOU with us !"'
' They were obliged to have him with them ,' the Mock Turtle said : ' no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise .'
' Wouldn ' t it really ?'
said Alice in a tone of great surprise .
' Of course not ,' said the Mock Turtle : ' why , if a fish came to ME , and told me he was going a journey , I should say " With what porpoise ?"'
' Don ' t you mean " purpose "?'
said Alice .
' I mean what I say ,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone .
And the Gryphon added ' Come , let ' s hear some of YOUR adventures .'
' I could tell you my adventures -- beginning from this morning ,' said Alice a little timidly : ' but it ' s no use going back to yesterday , because I was a different person then .'
' Explain all that ,' said the Mock Turtle .
' No , no !
The adventures first ,' said the Gryphon in an impatient tone : ' explanations take such a dreadful time .'
So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the White Rabbit .
She was a little nervous about it just at first , the two creatures got so close to her , one on each side , and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide , but she gained courage as she went on .
Her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to the part about her repeating ' YOU ARE OLD , FATHER WILLIAM ,' to the Caterpillar , and the words all coming different , and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath , and said ' That ' s very curious .'
' It ' s all about as curious as it can be ,' said the Gryphon .
' It all came different !'
the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully .
' I should like to hear her try and repeat something now .
Tell her to begin .'
He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice .
' Stand up and repeat "' TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD ,"' said the Gryphon .
' How the creatures order one about , and make one repeat lessons !'
thought Alice ; ' I might as well be at school at once .'
However , she got up , and began to repeat it , but her head was so full of the Lobster Quadrille , that she hardly knew what she was saying , and the words came very queer indeed :--
'' Tis the voice of the Lobster ; I heard him declare , " You have baked me too brown , I must sugar my hair ."
As a duck with its eyelids , so he with his nose Trims his belt and his buttons , and turns out his toes .'
[ later editions continued as follows When the sands are all dry , he is gay as a lark , And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark , But , when the tide rises and sharks are around , His voice has a timid and tremulous sound .]
' That ' s different from what I used to say when I was a child ,' said the Gryphon .
' Well , I never heard it before ,' said the Mock Turtle ; ' but it sounds uncommon nonsense .'
Alice said nothing ; she had sat down with her face in her hands , wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way again .
' I should like to have it explained ,' said the Mock Turtle .
' She can ' t explain it ,' said the Gryphon hastily .
' Go on with the next verse .'
' But about his toes ?'
the Mock Turtle persisted .
' How COULD he turn them out with his nose , you know ?'
' It ' s the first position in dancing .'
Alice said ; but was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing , and longed to change the subject .
' Go on with the next verse ,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently : ' it begins " I passed by his garden ."'
Alice did not dare to disobey , though she felt sure it would all come wrong , and she went on in a trembling voice :--
' I passed by his garden , and marked , with one eye , How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie --'
[ later editions continued as follows The Panther took pie - crust , and gravy , and meat , While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat .
When the pie was all finished , the Owl , as a boon , Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon : While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl , And concluded the banquet --]
' What IS the use of repeating all that stuff ,' the Mock Turtle interrupted , ' if you don ' t explain it as you go on ?
It ' s by far the most confusing thing I ever heard !'
' Yes , I think you ' d better leave off ,' said the Gryphon : and Alice was only too glad to do so .
' Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille ?'
the Gryphon went on .
' Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song ?'
' Oh , a song , please , if the Mock Turtle would be so kind ,' Alice replied , so eagerly that the Gryphon said , in a rather offended tone , ' Hm !
No accounting for tastes !
Sing her " Turtle Soup ," will you , old fellow ?'
The Mock Turtle sighed deeply , and began , in a voice sometimes choked with sobs , to sing this :--
' Beautiful Soup , so rich and green , Waiting in a hot tureen !
Who for such dainties would not stoop ?
Soup of the evening , beautiful Soup !
Soup of the evening , beautiful Soup !
Beau -- ootiful Soo -- oop !
Beau -- ootiful Soo -- oop !
Soo -- oop of the e -- e -- evening , Beautiful , beautiful Soup !
' Beautiful Soup !
Who cares for fish , Game , or any other dish ?
Who would not give all else for two Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup ?
Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup ?
Beau -- ootiful Soo -- oop !
Beau -- ootiful Soo -- oop !
Soo -- oop of the e -- e -- evening , Beautiful , beauti -- FUL SOUP !'
' Chorus again !'
cried the Gryphon , and the Mock Turtle had just begun to repeat it , when a cry of ' The trial ' s beginning !'
was heard in the distance .
' Come on !'
cried the Gryphon , and , taking Alice by the hand , it hurried off , without waiting for the end of the song .
' What trial is it ?'
Alice panted as she ran ; but the Gryphon only answered ' Come on !'
and ran the faster , while more and more faintly came , carried on the breeze that followed them , the melancholy words :--
' Soo -- oop of the e -- e -- evening , Beautiful , beautiful Soup !'
CHAPTER XI .
Who Stole the Tarts ?
The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived , with a great crowd assembled about them -- all sorts of little birds and beasts , as well as the whole pack of cards : the Knave was standing before them , in chains , with a soldier on each side to guard him ; and near the King was the White Rabbit , with a trumpet in one hand , and a scroll of parchment in the other .
In the very middle of the court was a table , with a large dish of tarts upon it : they looked so good , that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them --' I wish they ' d get the trial done ,' she thought , ' and hand round the refreshments !'
But there seemed to be no chance of this , so she began looking at everything about her , to pass away the time .
Alice had never been in a court of justice before , but she had read about them in books , and she was quite pleased to find that she knew the name of nearly everything there .
' That ' s the judge ,' she said to herself , ' because of his great wig .'
The judge , by the way , was the King ; and as he wore his crown over the wig , ( look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it ,) he did not look at all comfortable , and it was certainly not becoming .
' And that ' s the jury - box ,' thought Alice , ' and those twelve creatures ,' ( she was obliged to say ' creatures ,' you see , because some of them were animals , and some were birds ,) ' I suppose they are the jurors .'
She said this last word two or three times over to herself , being rather proud of it : for she thought , and rightly too , that very few little girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all .
However , ' jury - men ' would have done just as well .
The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates .
' What are they doing ?'
Alice whispered to the Gryphon .
' They can ' t have anything to put down yet , before the trial ' s begun .'
' They ' re putting down their names ,' the Gryphon whispered in reply , ' for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial .'
' Stupid things !'
Alice began in a loud , indignant voice , but she stopped hastily , for the White Rabbit cried out , ' Silence in the court !'
and the King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round , to make out who was talking .
Alice could see , as well as if she were looking over their shoulders , that all the jurors were writing down ' stupid things !'
on their slates , and she could even make out that one of them didn ' t know how to spell ' stupid ,' and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him .
' A nice muddle their slates ' ll be in before the trial ' s over !'
thought Alice .
One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked .
This of course , Alice could not stand , and she went round the court and got behind him , and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away .
She did it so quickly that the poor little juror ( it was Bill , the Lizard ) could not make out at all what had become of it ; so , after hunting all about for it , he was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day ; and this was of very little use , as it left no mark on the slate .
' Herald , read the accusation !'
said the King .
On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet , and then unrolled the parchment scroll , and read as follows :--
' The Queen of Hearts , she made some tarts , All on a summer day : The Knave of Hearts , he stole those tarts , And took them quite away !'
' Consider your verdict ,' the King said to the jury .
' Not yet , not yet !'
the Rabbit hastily interrupted .
' There ' s a great deal to come before that !'
' Call the first witness ,' said the King ; and the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet , and called out , ' First witness !'
The first witness was the Hatter .
He came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread - and - butter in the other .
' I beg pardon , your Majesty ,' he began , ' for bringing these in : but I hadn ' t quite finished my tea when I was sent for .'
' You ought to have finished ,' said the King .
' When did you begin ?'
The Hatter looked at the March Hare , who had followed him into the court , arm - in - arm with the Dormouse .
' Fourteenth of March , I think it was ,' he said .
' Fifteenth ,' said the March Hare .
' Sixteenth ,' added the Dormouse .
' Write that down ,' the King said to the jury , and the jury eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates , and then added them up , and reduced the answer to shillings and pence .
' Take off your hat ,' the King said to the Hatter .
' It isn ' t mine ,' said the Hatter .
' Stolen !'
the King exclaimed , turning to the jury , who instantly made a memorandum of the fact .
' I keep them to sell ,' the Hatter added as an explanation ; ' I ' ve none of my own .
I ' m a hatter .'
Here the Queen put on her spectacles , and began staring at the Hatter , who turned pale and fidgeted .
' Give your evidence ,' said the King ; ' and don ' t be nervous , or I ' ll have you executed on the spot .'
This did not seem to encourage the witness at all : he kept shifting from one foot to the other , looking uneasily at the Queen , and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread - and - butter .
Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation , which puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was : she was beginning to grow larger again , and she thought at first she would get up and leave the court ; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for her .
' I wish you wouldn ' t squeeze so .'
said the Dormouse , who was sitting next to her .
' I can hardly breathe .'
' I can ' t help it ,' said Alice very meekly : ' I ' m growing .'
' You ' ve no right to grow here ,' said the Dormouse .
' Don ' t talk nonsense ,' said Alice more boldly : ' you know you ' re growing too .'
' Yes , but I grow at a reasonable pace ,' said the Dormouse : ' not in that ridiculous fashion .'
And he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court .
All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter , and , just as the Dormouse crossed the court , she said to one of the officers of the court , ' Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert !'
on which the wretched Hatter trembled so , that he shook both his shoes off .
' Give your evidence ,' the King repeated angrily , ' or I ' ll have you executed , whether you ' re nervous or not .'
' I ' m a poor man , your Majesty ,' the Hatter began , in a trembling voice , '-- and I hadn ' t begun my tea -- not above a week or so -- and what with the bread - and - butter getting so thin -- and the twinkling of the tea --'
' The twinkling of the what ?'
said the King .
' It began with the tea ,' the Hatter replied .
' Of course twinkling begins with a T !'
said the King sharply .
' Do you take me for a dunce ?
Go on !'
' I ' m a poor man ,' the Hatter went on , ' and most things twinkled after that -- only the March Hare said --'
' I didn ' t !'
the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry .
' You did !'
said the Hatter .
' I deny it !'
said the March Hare .
' He denies it ,' said the King : ' leave out that part .'
' Well , at any rate , the Dormouse said --' the Hatter went on , looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too : but the Dormouse denied nothing , being fast asleep .
' After that ,' continued the Hatter , ' I cut some more bread - and - butter --'
' But what did the Dormouse say ?'
one of the jury asked .
' That I can ' t remember ,' said the Hatter .
' You MUST remember ,' remarked the King , ' or I ' ll have you executed .'
The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread - and - butter , and went down on one knee .
' I ' m a poor man , your Majesty ,' he began .
' You ' re a very poor speaker ,' said the King .
Here one of the guinea - pigs cheered , and was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court .
( As that is rather a hard word , I will just explain to you how it was done .
They had a large canvas bag , which tied up at the mouth with strings : into this they slipped the guinea - pig , head first , and then sat upon it .)
' I ' m glad I ' ve seen that done ,' thought Alice .
' I ' ve so often read in the newspapers , at the end of trials , " There was some attempts at applause , which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court ," and I never understood what it meant till now .'
' If that ' s all you know about it , you may stand down ,' continued the King .
' I can ' t go no lower ,' said the Hatter : ' I ' m on the floor , as it is .'
' Then you may SIT down ,' the King replied .
Here the other guinea - pig cheered , and was suppressed .
' Come , that finished the guinea - pigs !'
thought Alice .
' Now we shall get on better .'
' I ' d rather finish my tea ,' said the Hatter , with an anxious look at the Queen , who was reading the list of singers .
' You may go ,' said the King , and the Hatter hurriedly left the court , without even waiting to put his shoes on .
'-- and just take his head off outside ,' the Queen added to one of the officers : but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get to the door .
' Call the next witness !'
said the King .
The next witness was the Duchess ' s cook .
She carried the pepper - box in her hand , and Alice guessed who it was , even before she got into the court , by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once .
' Give your evidence ,' said the King .
' Shan ' t ,' said the cook .
The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit , who said in a low voice , ' Your Majesty must cross - examine THIS witness .'
' Well , if I must , I must ,' the King said , with a melancholy air , and , after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were nearly out of sight , he said in a deep voice , ' What are tarts made of ?'
' Pepper , mostly ,' said the cook .
' Treacle ,' said a sleepy voice behind her .
' Collar that Dormouse ,' the Queen shrieked out .
' Behead that Dormouse !
Turn that Dormouse out of court !
Suppress him !
Pinch him !
Off with his whiskers !'
For some minutes the whole court was in confusion , getting the Dormouse turned out , and , by the time they had settled down again , the cook had disappeared .
' Never mind !'
said the King , with an air of great relief .
' Call the next witness .'
And he added in an undertone to the Queen , ' Really , my dear , YOU must cross - examine the next witness .
It quite makes my forehead ache !'
Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list , feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like , '-- for they haven ' t got much evidence YET ,' she said to herself .
Imagine her surprise , when the White Rabbit read out , at the top of his shrill little voice , the name ' Alice !'
CHAPTER XII
Alice ' s Evidence
' Here !'
cried Alice , quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes , and she jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury - box with the edge of her skirt , upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below , and there they lay sprawling about , reminding her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset the week before .
' Oh , I BEG your pardon !'
she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay , and began picking them up again as quickly as she could , for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head , and she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once and put back into the jury - box , or they would die .
' The trial cannot proceed ,' said the King in a very grave voice , ' until all the jurymen are back in their proper places -- ALL ,' he repeated with great emphasis , looking hard at Alice as he said do .
Alice looked at the jury - box , and saw that , in her haste , she had put the Lizard in head downwards , and the poor little thing was waving its tail about in a melancholy way , being quite unable to move .
She soon got it out again , and put it right ; ' not that it signifies much ,' she said to herself ; ' I should think it would be QUITE as much use in the trial one way up as the other .'
As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of being upset , and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to them , they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the accident , all except the Lizard , who seemed too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open , gazing up into the roof of the court .
' What do you know about this business ?'
the King said to Alice .
' Nothing ,' said Alice .
' Nothing WHATEVER ?'
persisted the King .
' Nothing whatever ,' said Alice .
' That ' s very important ,' the King said , turning to the jury .
They were just beginning to write this down on their slates , when the White Rabbit interrupted : ' UNimportant , your Majesty means , of course ,' he said in a very respectful tone , but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke .
' UNimportant , of course , I meant ,' the King hastily said , and went on to himself in an undertone ,
' important -- unimportant -- unimportant -- important --' as if he were trying which word sounded best .
Some of the jury wrote it down ' important ,' and some ' unimportant .'
Alice could see this , as she was near enough to look over their slates ; ' but it doesn ' t matter a bit ,' she thought to herself .
At this moment the King , who had been for some time busily writing in his note - book , cackled out ' Silence !'
and read out from his book , ' Rule Forty - two .
ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE HIGH TO LEAVE THE COURT .'
Everybody looked at Alice .
' I ' M not a mile high ,' said Alice .
' You are ,' said the King .
' Nearly two miles high ,' added the Queen .
' Well , I shan ' t go , at any rate ,' said Alice : ' besides , that ' s not a regular rule : you invented it just now .'
' It ' s the oldest rule in the book ,' said the King .
' Then it ought to be Number One ,' said Alice .
The King turned pale , and shut his note - book hastily .
' Consider your verdict ,' he said to the jury , in a low , trembling voice .
' There ' s more evidence to come yet , please your Majesty ,' said the White Rabbit , jumping up in a great hurry ; ' this paper has just been picked up .'
' What ' s in it ?'
said the Queen .
' I haven ' t opened it yet ,' said the White Rabbit , ' but it seems to be a letter , written by the prisoner to -- to somebody .'
' It must have been that ,' said the King , ' unless it was written to nobody , which isn ' t usual , you know .'
' Who is it directed to ?'
said one of the jurymen .
' It isn ' t directed at all ,' said the White Rabbit ; ' in fact , there ' s nothing written on the OUTSIDE .'
He unfolded the paper as he spoke , and added ' It isn ' t a letter , after all : it ' s a set of verses .'
' Are they in the prisoner ' s handwriting ?'
asked another of the jurymen .
' No , they ' re not ,' said the White Rabbit , ' and that ' s the queerest thing about it .'
( The jury all looked puzzled .)
' He must have imitated somebody else ' s hand ,' said the King .
( The jury all brightened up again .)
' Please your Majesty ,' said the Knave , ' I didn ' t write it , and they can ' t prove I did : there ' s no name signed at the end .'
' If you didn ' t sign it ,' said the King , ' that only makes the matter worse .
You MUST have meant some mischief , or else you ' d have signed your name like an honest man .'
There was a general clapping of hands at this : it was the first really clever thing the King had said that day .
' That PROVES his guilt ,' said the Queen .
' It proves nothing of the sort !'
said Alice .
' Why , you don ' t even know what they ' re about !'
' Read them ,' said the King .
The White Rabbit put on his spectacles .
' Where shall I begin , please your Majesty ?'
he asked .
' Begin at the beginning ,' the King said gravely , ' and go on till you come to the end : then stop .'
These were the verses the White Rabbit read :--
' They told me you had been to her , And mentioned me to him : She gave me a good character , But said I could not swim .
He sent them word I had not gone ( We know it to be true ): If she should push the matter on , What would become of you ?
I gave her one , they gave him two , You gave us three or more ; They all returned from him to you , Though they were mine before .
If I or she should chance to be Involved in this affair , He trusts to you to set them free , Exactly as we were .
My notion was that you had been ( Before she had this fit ) An obstacle that came between Him , and ourselves , and it .
Don ' t let him know she liked them best , For this must ever be A secret , kept from all the rest , Between yourself and me .'
' That ' s the most important piece of evidence we ' ve heard yet ,' said the King , rubbing his hands ; ' so now let the jury --'
' If any one of them can explain it ,' said Alice , ( she had grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn ' t a bit afraid of interrupting him ,) ' I ' ll give him sixpence .
_I_ don ' t believe there ' s an atom of meaning in it .'
The jury all wrote down on their slates , ' SHE doesn ' t believe there ' s an atom of meaning in it ,' but none of them attempted to explain the paper .
' If there ' s no meaning in it ,' said the King , ' that saves a world of trouble , you know , as we needn ' t try to find any .
And yet I don ' t know ,' he went on , spreading out the verses on his knee , and looking at them with one eye ; ' I seem to see some meaning in them , after all . "
-- SAID I COULD NOT SWIM --" you can ' t swim , can you ?'
he added , turning to the Knave .
The Knave shook his head sadly .
' Do I look like it ?'
he said .
( Which he certainly did NOT , being made entirely of cardboard .)
' All right , so far ,' said the King , and he went on muttering over the verses to himself : '" WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE --" that ' s the jury , of course --" I GAVE HER ONE , THEY GAVE HIM TWO --" why , that must be what he did with the tarts , you know --'
' But , it goes on " THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU ,"' said Alice .
' Why , there they are !'
said the King triumphantly , pointing to the tarts on the table .
' Nothing can be clearer than THAT .
Then again --" BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT --" you never had fits , my dear , I think ?'
he said to the Queen .
' Never !'
said the Queen furiously , throwing an inkstand at the Lizard as she spoke .
( The unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his slate with one finger , as he found it made no mark ; but he now hastily began again , using the ink , that was trickling down his face , as long as it lasted .)
' Then the words don ' t FIT you ,' said the King , looking round the court with a smile .
There was a dead silence .
' It ' s a pun !'
the King added in an offended tone , and everybody laughed , ' Let the jury consider their verdict ,' the King said , for about the twentieth time that day .
' No , no !'
said the Queen .
' Sentence first -- verdict afterwards .'
' Stuff and nonsense !'
said Alice loudly .
' The idea of having the sentence first !'
' Hold your tongue !'
said the Queen , turning purple .
' I won ' t !'
said Alice .
' Off with her head !'
the Queen shouted at the top of her voice .
Nobody moved .
' Who cares for you ?'
said Alice , ( she had grown to her full size by this time .)
' You ' re nothing but a pack of cards !'
At this the whole pack rose up into the air , and came flying down upon her : she gave a little scream , half of fright and half of anger , and tried to beat them off , and found herself lying on the bank , with her head in the lap of her sister , who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face .
' Wake up , Alice dear !'
said her sister ; ' Why , what a long sleep you ' ve had !'
' Oh , I ' ve had such a curious dream !'
said Alice , and she told her sister , as well as she could remember them , all these strange Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about ; and when she had finished , her sister kissed her , and said , ' It WAS a curious dream , dear , certainly : but now run in to your tea ; it ' s getting late .'
So Alice got up and ran off , thinking while she ran , as well she might , what a wonderful dream it had been .
But her sister sat still just as she left her , leaning her head on her hand , watching the setting sun , and thinking of little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures , till she too began dreaming after a fashion , and this was her dream :--
First , she dreamed of little Alice herself , and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee , and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers -- she could hear the very tones of her voice , and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes -- and still as she listened , or seemed to listen , the whole place around her became alive the strange creatures of her little sister ' s dream .
The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried by -- the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool -- she could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends shared their never - ending meal , and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution -- once more the pig - baby was sneezing on the Duchess ' s knee , while plates and dishes crashed around it -- once more the shriek of the Gryphon , the squeaking of the Lizard ' s slate - pencil , and the choking of the suppressed guinea - pigs , filled the air , mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock Turtle .
So she sat on , with closed eyes , and half believed herself in Wonderland , though she knew she had but to open them again , and all would change to dull reality -- the grass would be only rustling in the wind , and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds -- the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep - bells , and the Queen ' s shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd boy -- and the sneeze of the baby , the shriek of the Gryphon , and all the other queer noises , would change ( she knew ) to the confused clamour of the busy farm - yard -- while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle ' s heavy sobs .
Lastly , she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers would , in the after - time , be herself a grown woman ; and how she would keep , through all her riper years , the simple and loving heart of her childhood : and how she would gather about her other little children , and make THEIR eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale , perhaps even with the dream of Wonderland of long ago : and how she would feel with all their simple sorrows , and find a pleasure in all their simple joys , remembering her own child - life , and the happy summer days .
[ The Ball and The Cross by G . K . Chesterton 1909 ]
I .
A DISCUSSION SOMEWHAT IN THE AIR
The flying ship of Professor Lucifer sang through the skies like a silver arrow ; the bleak white steel of it , gleaming in the bleak blue emptiness of the evening .
That it was far above the earth was no expression for it ; to the two men in it , it seemed to be far above the stars .
The professor had himself invented the flying machine , and had also invented nearly everything in it .
Every sort of tool or apparatus had , in consequence , to the full , that fantastic and distorted look which belongs to the miracles of science .
For the world of science and evolution is far more nameless and elusive and like a dream than the world of poetry and religion ; since in the latter images and ideas remain themselves eternally , while it is the whole idea of evolution that identities melt into each other as they do in a nightmare .
All the tools of Professor Lucifer were the ancient human tools gone mad , grown into unrecognizable shapes , forgetful of their origin , forgetful of their names .
That thing which looked like an enormous key with three wheels was really a patent and very deadly revolver .
That object which seemed to be created by the entanglement of two corkscrews was really the key .
The thing which might have been mistaken for a tricycle turned upside - down was the inexpressibly important instrument to which the corkscrew was the key .
All these things , as I say , the professor had invented ; he had invented everything in the flying ship , with the exception , perhaps , of himself .
This he had been born too late actually to inaugurate , but he believed at least , that he had considerably improved it .
There was , however , another man on board , so to speak , at the time .
Him , also , by a curious coincidence , the professor had not invented , and him he had not even very greatly improved , though he had fished him up with a lasso out of his own back garden , in Western Bulgaria , with the pure object of improving him .
He was an exceedingly holy man , almost entirely covered with white hair .
You could see nothing but his eyes , and he seemed to talk with them .
A monk of immense learning and acute intellect he had made himself happy in a little stone hut and a little stony garden in the Balkans , chiefly by writing the most crushing refutations of exposures of certain heresies , the last professors of which had been burnt ( generally by each other ) precisely 1 , 119 years previously .
They were really very plausible and thoughtful heresies , and it was really a creditable or even glorious circumstance , that the old monk had been intellectual enough to detect their fallacy ; the only misfortune was that nobody in the modern world was intellectual enough even to understand their argument .
The old monk , one of whose names was Michael , and the other a name quite impossible to remember or repeat in our Western civilization , had , however , as I have said , made himself quite happy while he was in a mountain hermitage in the society of wild animals .
And now that his luck had lifted him above all the mountains in the society of a wild physicist , he made himself happy still .
" I have no intention , my good Michael ," said Professor Lucifer , " of endeavouring to convert you by argument .
The imbecility of your traditions can be quite finally exhibited to anybody with mere ordinary knowledge of the world , the same kind of knowledge which teaches us not to sit in draughts or not to encourage friendliness in impecunious people .
It is folly to talk of this or that demonstrating the rationalist philosophy .
Everything demonstrates it .
Rubbing shoulders with men of all kinds ----"
" You will forgive me ," said the monk , meekly from under loads of white beard , " but I fear I do not understand ; was it in order that I might rub my shoulder against men of all kinds that you put me inside this thing ?"
" An entertaining retort , in the narrow and deductive manner of the Middle Ages ," replied the Professor , calmly , " but even upon your own basis I will illustrate my point .
We are up in the sky .
In your religion and all the religions , as far as I know ( and I know everything ), the sky is made the symbol of everything that is sacred and merciful .
Well , now you are in the sky , you know better .
Phrase it how you like , twist it how you like , you know that you know better .
You know what are a man ' s real feelings about the heavens , when he finds himself alone in the heavens , surrounded by the heavens .
You know the truth , and the truth is this .
The heavens are evil , the sky is evil , the stars are evil .
This mere space , this mere quantity , terrifies a man more than tigers or the terrible plague .
You know that since our science has spoken , the bottom has fallen out of the Universe .
Now , heaven is the hopeless thing , more hopeless than any hell .
Now , if there be any comfort for all your miserable progeny of morbid apes , it must be in the earth , underneath you , under the roots of the grass , in the place where hell was of old .
The fiery crypts , the lurid cellars of the underworld , to which you once condemned the wicked , are hideous enough , but at least they are more homely than the heaven in which we ride .
And the time will come when you will all hide in them , to escape the horror of the stars ."
" I hope you will excuse my interrupting you ," said Michael , with a slight cough , " but I have always noticed ----"
" Go on , pray go on ," said Professor Lucifer , radiantly , " I really like to draw out your simple ideas ."
" Well , the fact is ," said the other , " that much as I admire your rhetoric and the rhetoric of your school , from a purely verbal point of view , such little study of you and your school in human history as I have been enabled to make has led me to -- er -- rather singular conclusion , which I find great difficulty in expressing , especially in a foreign language ."
" Come , come ," said the Professor , encouragingly , " I ' ll help you out .
How did my view strike you ?"
" Well , the truth is , I know I don ' t express it properly , but somehow it seemed to me that you always convey ideas of that kind with most eloquence , when -- er -- when ----"
" Oh !
get on ," cried Lucifer , boisterously .
" Well , in point of fact when your flying ship is just going to run into something .
I thought you wouldn ' t mind my mentioning it , but it ' s running into something now ."
Lucifer exploded with an oath and leapt erect , leaning hard upon the handle that acted as a helm to the vessel .
For the last ten minutes they had been shooting downwards into great cracks and caverns of cloud .
Now , through a sort of purple haze , could be seen comparatively near to them what seemed to be the upper part of a huge , dark orb or sphere , islanded in a sea of cloud .
The Professor ' s eyes were blazing like a maniac ' s .
" It is a new world ," he cried , with a dreadful mirth .
" It is a new planet and it shall bear my name .
This star and not that other vulgar one shall be ' Lucifer , sun of the morning .'
Here we will have no chartered lunacies , here we will have no gods .
Here man shall be as innocent as the daisies , as innocent and as cruel -- here the intellect ----"
" There seems ," said Michael , timidly , " to be something sticking up in the middle of it ."
" So there is ," said the Professor , leaning over the side of the ship , his spectacles shining with intellectual excitement .
" What can it be ?
It might of course be merely a ----"
Then a shriek indescribable broke out of him of a sudden , and he flung up his arms like a lost spirit .
The monk took the helm in a tired way ; he did not seem much astonished for he came from an ignorant part of the world in which it is not uncommon for lost spirits to shriek when they see the curious shape which the Professor had just seen on the top of the mysterious ball , but he took the helm only just in time , and by driving it hard to the left he prevented the flying ship from smashing into St . Paul ' s Cathedral .
A plain of sad - coloured cloud lay along the level of the top of the Cathedral dome , so that the ball and the cross looked like a buoy riding on a leaden sea .
As the flying ship swept towards it , this plain of cloud looked as dry and definite and rocky as any grey desert .
Hence it gave to the mind and body a sharp and unearthly sensation when the ship cut and sank into the cloud as into any common mist , a thing without resistance .
There was , as it were , a deadly shock in the fact that there was no shock .
It was as if they had cloven into ancient cliffs like so much butter .
But sensations awaited them which were much stranger than those of sinking through the solid earth .
For a moment their eyes and nostrils were stopped with darkness and opaque cloud ; then the darkness warmed into a kind of brown fog .
And far , far below them the brown fog fell until it warmed into fire .
Through the dense London atmosphere they could see below them the flaming London lights ; lights which lay beneath them in squares and oblongs of fire .
The fog and fire were mixed in a passionate vapour ; you might say that the fog was drowning the flames ; or you might say that the flames had set the fog on fire .
Beside the ship and beneath it ( for it swung just under the ball ), the immeasurable dome itself shot out and down into the dark like a combination of voiceless cataracts .
Or it was like some cyclopean sea - beast sitting above London and letting down its tentacles bewilderingly on every side , a monstrosity in that starless heaven .
For the clouds that belonged to London had closed over the heads of the voyagers sealing up the entrance of the upper air .
They had broken through a roof and come into a temple of twilight .
They were so near to the ball that Lucifer leaned his hand against it , holding the vessel away , as men push a boat off from a bank .
Above it the cross already draped in the dark mists of the borderland was shadowy and more awful in shape and size .
Professor Lucifer slapped his hand twice upon the surface of the great orb as if he were caressing some enormous animal .
" This is the fellow ," he said , " this is the one for my money ."
" May I with all respect inquire ," asked the old monk , " what on earth you are talking about ?"
" Why this ," cried Lucifer , smiting the ball again , " here is the only symbol , my boy .
So fat .
So satisfied .
Not like that scraggy individual , stretching his arms in stark weariness ."
And he pointed up to the cross , his face dark with a grin .
" I was telling you just now , Michael , that I can prove the best part of the rationalist case and the Christian humbug from any symbol you liked to give me , from any instance I came across .
Here is an instance with a vengeance .
What could possibly express your philosophy and my philosophy better than the shape of that cross and the shape of this ball ?
This globe is reasonable ; that cross is unreasonable .
It is a four - legged animal , with one leg longer than the others .
The globe is inevitable .
The cross is arbitrary .
Above all the globe is at unity with itself ; the cross is primarily and above all things at enmity with itself .
The cross is the conflict of two hostile lines , of irreconcilable direction .
That silent thing up there is essentially a collision , a crash , a struggle in stone .
Pah !
that sacred symbol of yours has actually given its name to a description of desperation and muddle .
When we speak of men at once ignorant of each other and frustrated by each other , we say they are at cross - purposes .
Away with the thing !
The very shape of it is a contradiction in terms ."
" What you say is perfectly true ," said Michael , with serenity .
" But we like contradictions in terms .
Man is a contradiction in terms ; he is a beast whose superiority to other beasts consists in having fallen .
That cross is , as you say , an eternal collision ; so am I .
That is a struggle in stone .
Every form of life is a struggle in flesh .
The shape of the cross is irrational , just as the shape of the human animal is irrational .
You say the cross is a quadruped with one limb longer than the rest .
I say man is a quadruped who only uses two of his legs ."
The Professor frowned thoughtfully for an instant , and said : " Of course everything is relative , and I would not deny that the element of struggle and self - contradiction , represented by that cross , has a necessary place at a certain evolutionary stage .
But surely the cross is the lower development and the sphere the higher .
After all it is easy enough to see what is really wrong with Wren ' s architectural arrangement ."
" And what is that , pray ?"
inquired Michael , meekly .
" The cross is on top of the ball ," said Professor Lucifer , simply .
" That is surely wrong .
The ball should be on top of the cross .
The cross is a mere barbaric prop ; the ball is perfection .
The cross at its best is but the bitter tree of man ' s history ; the ball is the rounded , the ripe and final fruit .
And the fruit should be at the top of the tree , not at the bottom of it ."
" Oh !"
said the monk , a wrinkle coming into his forehead , " so you think that in a rationalistic scheme of symbolism the ball should be on top of the cross ?"
" It sums up my whole allegory ," said the professor .
" Well , that is really very interesting ," resumed Michael slowly , " because I think in that case you would see a most singular effect , an effect that has generally been achieved by all those able and powerful systems which rationalism , or the religion of the ball , has produced to lead or teach mankind .
You would see , I think , that thing happen which is always the ultimate embodiment and logical outcome of your logical scheme ."
" What are you talking about ?"
asked Lucifer .
" What would happen ?"
" I mean it would fall down ," said the monk , looking wistfully into the void .
Lucifer made an angry movement and opened his mouth to speak , but Michael , with all his air of deliberation , was proceeding before he could bring out a word .
" I once knew a man like you , Lucifer ," he said , with a maddening monotony and slowness of articulation .
" He took this ----"
" There is no man like me ," cried Lucifer , with a violence that shook the ship .
" As I was observing ," continued Michael , " this man also took the view that the symbol of Christianity was a symbol of savagery and all unreason .
His history is rather amusing .
It is also a perfect allegory of what happens to rationalists like yourself .
He began , of course , by refusing to allow a crucifix in his house , or round his wife ' s neck , or even in a picture .
He said , as you say , that it was an arbitrary and fantastic shape , that it was a monstrosity , loved because it was paradoxical .
Then he began to grow fiercer and more eccentric ; he would batter the crosses by the roadside ; for he lived in a Roman Catholic country .
Finally in a height of frenzy he climbed the steeple of the Parish Church and tore down the cross , waving it in the air , and uttering wild soliloquies up there under the stars .
Then one still summer evening as he was wending his way homewards , along a lane , the devil of his madness came upon him with a violence and transfiguration which changes the world .
He was standing smoking , for a moment , in the front of an interminable line of palings , when his eyes were opened .
Not a light shifted , not a leaf stirred , but he saw as if by a sudden change in the eyesight that this paling was an army of innumerable crosses linked together over hill and dale .
And he whirled up his heavy stick and went at it as if at an army .
Mile after mile along his homeward path he broke it down and tore it up .
For he hated the cross and every paling is a wall of crosses .
When he returned to his house he was a literal madman .
He sat upon a chair and then started up from it for the cross - bars of the carpentry repeated the intolerable image .
He flung himself upon a bed only to remember that this , too , like all workmanlike things , was constructed on the accursed plan .
He broke his furniture because it was made of crosses .
He burnt his house because it was made of crosses .
He was found in the river ."
Lucifer was looking at him with a bitten lip .
" Is that story really true ?"
he asked .
" Oh , no ," said Michael , airily .
" It is a parable .
It is a parable of you and all your rationalists .
You begin by breaking up the Cross ; but you end by breaking up the habitable world .
We leave you saying that nobody ought to join the Church against his will .
When we meet you again you are saying that no one has any will to join it with .
We leave you saying that there is no such place as Eden .
We find you saying that there is no such place as Ireland .
You start by hating the irrational and you come to hate everything , for everything is irrational and so ----"
Lucifer leapt upon him with a cry like a wild beast ' s .
" Ah ," he screamed , " to every man his madness .
You are mad on the cross .
Let it save you ."
And with a herculean energy he forced the monk backwards out of the reeling car on to the upper part of the stone ball .
Michael , with as abrupt an agility , caught one of the beams of the cross and saved himself from falling .
At the same instant Lucifer drove down a lever and the ship shot up with him in it alone .
" Ha !
ha !"
he yelled , " what sort of a support do you find it , old fellow ?"
" For practical purposes of support ," replied Michael grimly , " it is at any rate a great deal better than the ball .
May I ask if you are going to leave me here ?"
" Yes , yes .
I mount !
I mount !"
cried the professor in ungovernable excitement .
" _Altiora peto_ .
My path is upward ."
" How often have you told me , Professor , that there is really no up or down in space ?"
said the monk .
" I shall mount up as much as you will ."
" Indeed ," said Lucifer , leering over the side of the flying ship .
" May I ask what you are going to do ?"
The monk pointed downward at Ludgate Hill .
" I am going ," he said , " to climb up into a star ."
Those who look at the matter most superficially regard paradox as something which belongs to jesting and light journalism .
Paradox of this kind is to be found in the saying of the dandy , in the decadent comedy , " Life is much too important to be taken seriously ."
Those who look at the matter a little more deeply or delicately see that paradox is a thing which especially belongs to all religions .
Paradox of this kind is to be found in such a saying as " The meek shall inherit the earth ."
But those who see and feel the fundamental fact of the matter know that paradox is a thing which belongs not to religion only , but to all vivid and violent practical crises of human living .
This kind of paradox may be clearly perceived by anybody who happens to be hanging in mid - space , clinging to one arm of the Cross of St . Paul ' s .
Father Michael in spite of his years , and in spite of his asceticism ( or because of it , for all I know ), was a very healthy and happy old gentleman .
And as he swung on a bar above the sickening emptiness of air , he realized , with that sort of dead detachment which belongs to the brains of those in peril , the deathless and hopeless contradiction which is involved in the mere idea of courage .
He was a happy and healthy old gentleman and therefore he was quite careless about it .
And he felt as every man feels in the taut moment of such terror that his chief danger was terror itself ; his only possible strength would be a coolness amounting to carelessness , a carelessness amounting almost to a suicidal swagger .
His one wild chance of coming out safely would be in not too desperately desiring to be safe .
There might be footholds down that awful facade , if only he could not care whether they were footholds or no .
If he were foolhardy he might escape ; if he were wise he would stop where he was till he dropped from the cross like a stone .
And this antinomy kept on repeating itself in his mind , a contradiction as large and staring as the immense contradiction of the Cross ; he remembered having often heard the words , " Whosoever shall lose his life the same shall save it ."
He remembered with a sort of strange pity that this had always been made to mean that whoever lost his physical life should save his spiritual life .
Now he knew the truth that is known to all fighters , and hunters , and climbers of cliffs .
He knew that even his animal life could only be saved by a considerable readiness to lose it .
Some will think it improbable that a human soul swinging desperately in mid - air should think about philosophical inconsistencies .
But such extreme states are dangerous things to dogmatize about .
Frequently they produce a certain useless and joyless activity of the mere intellect , thought not only divorced from hope but even from desire .
And if it is impossible to dogmatize about such states , it is still more impossible to describe them .
To this spasm of sanity and clarity in Michael ' s mind succeeded a spasm of the elemental terror ; the terror of the animal in us which regards the whole universe as its enemy ; which , when it is victorious , has no pity , and so , when it is defeated has no imaginable hope .
Of that ten minutes of terror it is not possible to speak in human words .
But then again in that damnable darkness there began to grow a strange dawn as of grey and pale silver .
And of this ultimate resignation or certainty it is even less possible to write ; it is something stranger than hell itself ; it is perhaps the last of the secrets of God .
At the highest crisis of some incurable anguish there will suddenly fall upon the man the stillness of an insane contentment .
It is not hope , for hope is broken and romantic and concerned with the future ; this is complete and of the present .
It is not faith , for faith by its very nature is fierce , and as it were at once doubtful and defiant ; but this is simply a satisfaction .
It is not knowledge , for the intellect seems to have no particular part in it .
Nor is it ( as the modern idiots would certainly say it is ) a mere numbness or negative paralysis of the powers of grief .
It is not negative in the least ; it is as positive as good news .
In some sense , indeed , it is good news .
It seems almost as if there were some equality among things , some balance in all possible contingencies which we are not permitted to know lest we should learn indifference to good and evil , but which is sometimes shown to us for an instant as a last aid in our last agony .
Michael certainly could not have given any sort of rational account of this vast unmeaning satisfaction which soaked through him and filled him to the brim .
He felt with a sort of half - witted lucidity that the cross was there , and the ball was there , and the dome was there , that he was going to climb down from them , and that he did not mind in the least whether he was killed or not .
This mysterious mood lasted long enough to start him on his dreadful descent and to force him to continue it .
But six times before he reached the highest of the outer galleries terror had returned on him like a flying storm of darkness and thunder .
By the time he had reached that place of safety he almost felt ( as in some impossible fit of drunkenness ) that he had two heads ; one was calm , careless , and efficient ; the other saw the danger like a deadly map , was wise , careful , and useless .
He had fancied that he would have to let himself vertically down the face of the whole building .
When he dropped into the upper gallery he still felt as far from the terrestrial globe as if he had only dropped from the sun to the moon .
He paused a little , panting in the gallery under the ball , and idly kicked his heels , moving a few yards along it .
And as he did so a thunderbolt struck his soul .
A man , a heavy , ordinary man , with a composed indifferent face , and a prosaic sort of uniform , with a row of buttons , blocked his way .
Michael had no mind to wonder whether this solid astonished man , with the brown moustache and the nickel buttons , had also come on a flying ship .
He merely let his mind float in an endless felicity about the man .
He thought how nice it would be if he had to live up in that gallery with that one man for ever .
He thought how he would luxuriate in the nameless shades of this man ' s soul and then hear with an endless excitement about the nameless shades of the souls of all his aunts and uncles .
A moment before he had been dying alone .
Now he was living in the same world with a man ; an inexhaustible ecstasy .
In the gallery below the ball Father Michael had found that man who is the noblest and most divine and most lovable of all men , better than all the saints , greater than all the heroes -- man Friday .
In the confused colour and music of his new paradise , Michael heard only in a faint and distant fashion some remarks that this beautiful solid man seemed to be making to him ; remarks about something or other being after hours and against orders .
He also seemed to be asking how Michael " got up " there .
This beautiful man evidently felt as Michael did that the earth was a star and was set in heaven .
At length Michael sated himself with the mere sensual music of the voice of the man in buttons .
He began to listen to what he said , and even to make some attempt at answering a question which appeared to have been put several times and was now put with some excess of emphasis .
Michael realized that the image of God in nickel buttons was asking him how he had come there .
He said that he had come in Lucifer ' s ship .
On his giving this answer the demeanour of the image of God underwent a remarkable change .
From addressing Michael gruffly , as if he were a malefactor , he began suddenly to speak to him with a sort of eager and feverish amiability as if he were a child .
He seemed particularly anxious to coax him away from the balustrade .
He led him by the arm towards a door leading into the building itself , soothing him all the time .
He gave what even Michael ( slight as was his knowledge of the world ) felt to be an improbable account of the sumptuous pleasures and varied advantages awaiting him downstairs .
Michael followed him , however , if only out of politeness , down an apparently interminable spiral of staircase .
At one point a door opened .
Michael stepped through it , and the unaccountable man in buttons leapt after him and pinioned him where he stood .
But he only wished to stand ; to stand and stare .
He had stepped as it were into another infinity , out under the dome of another heaven .
But this was a dome of heaven made by man .
The gold and green and crimson of its sunset were not in the shapeless clouds but in shapes of cherubim and seraphim , awful human shapes with a passionate plumage .
Its stars were not above but far below , like fallen stars still in unbroken constellations ; the dome itself was full of darkness .
And far below , lower even than the lights , could be seen creeping or motionless , great black masses of men .
The tongue of a terrible organ seemed to shake the very air in the whole void ; and through it there came up to Michael the sound of a tongue more terrible ; the dreadful everlasting voice of man , calling to his gods from the beginning to the end of the world .
Michael felt almost as if he were a god , and all the voices were hurled at him .
" No , the pretty things aren ' t here ," said the demi - god in buttons , caressingly .
" The pretty things are downstairs .
You come along with me .
There ' s something that will surprise you downstairs ; something you want very much to see ."
Evidently the man in buttons did not feel like a god , so Michael made no attempt to explain his feelings to him , but followed him meekly enough down the trail of the serpentine staircase .
He had no notion where or at what level he was .
He was still full of the cold splendour of space , and of what a French writer has brilliantly named the " vertigo of the infinite ," when another door opened , and with a shock indescribable he found himself on the familiar level , in a street full of faces , with the houses and even the lamp - posts above his head .
He felt suddenly happy and suddenly indescribably small .
He fancied he had been changed into a child again ; his eyes sought the pavement seriously as children ' s do , as if it were a thing with which something satisfactory could be done .
He felt the full warmth of that pleasure from which the proud shut themselves out ; the pleasure which not only goes with humiliation , but which almost is humiliation .
Men who have escaped death by a hair have it , and men whose love is returned by a woman unexpectedly , and men whose sins are forgiven them .
Everything his eye fell on it feasted on , not aesthetically , but with a plain , jolly appetite as of a boy eating buns .
He relished the squareness of the houses ; he liked their clean angles as if he had just cut them with a knife .
The lit squares of the shop windows excited him as the young are excited by the lit stage of some promising pantomime .
He happened to see in one shop which projected with a bulging bravery on to the pavement some square tins of potted meat , and it seemed like a hint of a hundred hilarious high teas in a hundred streets of the world .
He was , perhaps , the happiest of all the children of men .
For in that unendurable instant when he hung , half slipping , to the ball of St . Paul ' s , the whole universe had been destroyed and re - created .
Suddenly through all the din of the dark streets came a crash of glass .
With that mysterious suddenness of the Cockney mob , a rush was made in the right direction , a dingy office , next to the shop of the potted meat .
The pane of glass was lying in splinters about the pavement .
And the police already had their hands on a very tall young man , with dark , lank hair and dark , dazed eyes , with a grey plaid over his shoulder , who had just smashed the shop window with a single blow of his stick .
" I ' d do it again ," said the young man , with a furious white face .
" Anybody would have done it .
Did you see what it said ?
I swear I ' d do it again ."
Then his eyes encountered the monkish habit of Michael , and he pulled off his grey tam - o '- shanter with the gesture of a Catholic .
" Father , did you see what they said ?"
he cried , trembling .
" Did you see what they dared to say ?
I didn ' t understand it at first .
I read it half through before I broke the window ."
Michael felt he knew not how .
The whole peace of the world was pent up painfully in his heart .
The new and childlike world which he had seen so suddenly , men had not seen at all .
Here they were still at their old bewildering , pardonable , useless quarrels , with so much to be said on both sides , and so little that need be said at all .
A fierce inspiration fell on him suddenly ; he would strike them where they stood with the love of God .
They should not move till they saw their own sweet and startling existence .
They should not go from that place till they went home embracing like brothers and shouting like men delivered .
From the Cross from which he had fallen fell the shadow of its fantastic mercy ; and the first three words he spoke in a voice like a silver trumpet , held men as still as stones .
Perhaps if he had spoken there for an hour in his illumination he might have founded a religion on Ludgate Hill .
But the heavy hand of his guide fell suddenly on his shoulder .
" This poor fellow is dotty ," he said good - humouredly to the crowd .
" I found him wandering in the Cathedral .
Says he came in a flying ship .
Is there a constable to spare to take care of him ?"
There was a constable to spare .
Two other constables attended to the tall young man in grey ; a fourth concerned himself with the owner of the shop , who showed some tendency to be turbulent .
They took the tall young man away to a magistrate , whither we shall follow him in an ensuing chapter .
And they took the happiest man in the world away to an asylum .
II .
THE RELIGION OF THE STIPENDIARY MAGISTRATE
The editorial office of _The Atheist_ had for some years past become less and less prominently interesting as a feature of Ludgate Hill .
The paper was unsuited to the atmosphere .
It showed an interest in the Bible unknown in the district , and a knowledge of that volume to which nobody else on Ludgate Hill could make any conspicuous claim .
It was in vain that the editor of _The Atheist_ filled his front window with fierce and final demands as to what Noah in the Ark did with the neck of the giraffe .
It was in vain that he asked violently , as for the last time , how the statement " God is Spirit " could be reconciled with the statement " The earth is His footstool ."
It was in vain that he cried with an accusing energy that the Bishop of London was paid L12 , 000 a year for pretending to believe that the whale swallowed Jonah .
It was in vain that he hung in conspicuous places the most thrilling scientific calculations about the width of the throat of a whale .
Was it nothing to them all they that passed by ?
Did his sudden and splendid and truly sincere indignation never stir any of the people pouring down Ludgate Hill ?
Never .
The little man who edited _The Atheist_ would rush from his shop on starlit evenings and shake his fist at St . Paul ' s in the passion of his holy war upon the holy place .
He might have spared his emotion .
The cross at the top of St . Paul ' s and _The Atheist_ shop at the foot of it were alike remote from the world .
The shop and the Cross were equally uplifted and alone in the empty heavens .
To the little man who edited _The Atheist_ , a fiery little Scotchman , with fiery , red hair and beard , going by the name of Turnbull , all this decline in public importance seemed not so much sad or even mad , but merely bewildering and unaccountable .
He had said the worst thing that could be said ; and it seemed accepted and ignored like the ordinary second best of the politicians .
Every day his blasphemies looked more glaring , and every day the dust lay thicker upon them .
It made him feel as if he were moving in a world of idiots .
He seemed among a race of men who smiled when told of their own death , or looked vacantly at the Day of Judgement .
Year after year went by , and year after year the death of God in a shop in Ludgate became a less and less important occurrence .
All the forward men of his age discouraged Turnbull .
The socialists said he was cursing priests when he should be cursing capitalists .
The artists said that the soul was most spiritual , not when freed from religion , but when freed from morality .
Year after year went by , and at least a man came by who treated Mr . Turnbull ' s secularist shop with a real respect and seriousness .
He was a young man in a grey plaid , and he smashed the window .
He was a young man , born in the Bay of Arisaig , opposite Rum and the Isle of Skye .
His high , hawklike features and snaky black hair bore the mark of that unknown historic thing which is crudely called Celtic , but which is probably far older than the Celts , whoever they were .
He was in name and stock a Highlander of the Macdonalds ; but his family took , as was common in such cases , the name of a subordinate sept as a surname , and for all the purposes which could be answered in London , he called himself Evan MacIan .
He had been brought up in some loneliness and seclusion as a strict Roman Catholic , in the midst of that little wedge of Roman Catholics which is driven into the Western Highlands .
And he had found his way as far as Fleet Street , seeking some half - promised employment , without having properly realized that there were in the world any people who were not Roman Catholics .
He had uncovered himself for a few moments before the statue of Queen Anne , in front of St . Paul ' s Cathedral , under the firm impression that it was a figure of the Virgin Mary .
He was somewhat surprised at the lack of deference shown to the figure by the people bustling by .
He did not understand that their one essential historical principle , the one law truly graven on their hearts , was the great and comforting statement that Queen Anne is dead .
This faith was as fundamental as his faith , that Our Lady was alive .
Any persons he had talked to since he had touched the fringe of our fashion or civilization had been by a coincidence , sympathetic or hypocritical .
Or if they had spoken some established blasphemies , he had been unable to understand them merely owing to the preoccupied satisfaction of his mind .
On that fantastic fringe of the Gaelic land where he walked as a boy , the cliffs were as fantastic as the clouds .
Heaven seemed to humble itself and come closer to the earth .
The common paths of his little village began to climb quite suddenly and seemed resolved to go to heaven .
The sky seemed to fall down towards the hills ; the hills took hold upon the sky .
In the sumptuous sunset of gold and purple and peacock green cloudlets and islets were the same .
Evan lived like a man walking on a borderland , the borderland between this world and another .
Like so many men and nations who grow up with nature and the common things , he understood the supernatural before he understood the natural .
He had looked at dim angels standing knee - deep in the grass before he had looked at the grass .
He knew that Our Lady ' s robes were blue before he knew the wild roses round her feet were red .
The deeper his memory plunged into the dark house of childhood the nearer and nearer he came to the things that cannot be named .
All through his life he thought of the daylight world as a sort of divine debris , the broken remainder of his first vision .
The skies and mountains were the splendid off - scourings of another place .
The stars were lost jewels of the Queen .
Our Lady had gone and left the stars by accident .
His private tradition was equally wild and unworldly .
His great - grandfather had been cut down at Culloden , certain in his last instant that God would restore the King .
His grandfather , then a boy of ten , had taken the terrible claymore from the hand of the dead and hung it up in his house , burnishing it and sharpening it for sixty years , to be ready for the next rebellion .
His father , the youngest son and the last left alive , had refused to attend on Queen Victoria in Scotland .
And Evan himself had been of one piece with his progenitors ; and was not dead with them , but alive in the twentieth century .
He was not in the least the pathetic Jacobite of whom we read , left behind by a final advance of all things .
He was , in his own fancy , a conspirator , fierce and up to date .
In the long , dark afternoons of the Highland winter , he plotted and fumed in the dark .
He drew plans of the capture of London on the desolate sand of Arisaig .
When he came up to capture London , it was not with an army of white cockades , but with a stick and a satchel .
London overawed him a little , not because he thought it grand or even terrible , but because it bewildered him ; it was not the Golden City or even hell ; it was Limbo .
He had one shock of sentiment , when he turned that wonderful corner of Fleet Street and saw St . Paul ' s sitting in the sky .
" Ah ," he said , after a long pause , " that sort of thing was built under the Stuarts !"
Then with a sour grin he asked himself what was the corresponding monument of the Brunswicks and the Protestant Constitution .
After some warning , he selected a sky - sign of some pill .
Half an hour afterwards his emotions left him with an emptied mind on the same spot .
And it was in a mood of mere idle investigation that he happened to come to a standstill opposite the office of _The Atheist_ .
He did not see the word " atheist ", or if he did , it is quite possible that he did not know the meaning of the word .
Even as it was , the document would not have shocked even the innocent Highlander , but for the troublesome and quite unforeseen fact that the innocent Highlander read it stolidly to the end ; a thing unknown among the most enthusiastic subscribers to the paper , and calculated in any case to create a new situation .
With a smart journalistic instinct characteristic of all his school , the editor of _The Atheist_ had put first in his paper and most prominently in his window an article called " The Mesopotamian Mythology and its Effects on Syriac Folk Lore ."
Mr . Evan MacIan began to read this quite idly , as he would have read a public statement beginning with a young girl dying in Brighton and ending with Bile Beans .
He received the very considerable amount of information accumulated by the author with that tired clearness of the mind which children have on heavy summer afternoons -- that tired clearness which leads them to go on asking questions long after they have lost interest in the subject and are as bored as their nurse .
The streets were full of people and empty of adventures .
He might as well know about the gods of Mesopotamia as not ; so he flattened his long , lean face against the dim bleak pane of the window and read all there was to read about Mesopotamian gods .
He read how the Mesopotamians had a god named Sho ( sometimes pronounced Ji ), and that he was described as being very powerful , a striking similarity to some expressions about Jahveh , who is also described as having power .
Evan had never heard of Jahveh in his life , and imagining him to be some other Mesopotamian idol , read on with a dull curiosity .
He learnt that the name Sho , under its third form of Psa , occurs in an early legend which describes how the deity , after the manner of Jupiter on so many occasions , seduced a Virgin and begat a hero .
This hero , whose name is not essential to our existence , was , it was said , the chief hero and Saviour of the Mesopotamian ethical scheme .
Then followed a paragraph giving other examples of such heroes and Saviours being born of some profligate intercourse between God and mortal .
Then followed a paragraph -- but Evan did not understand it .
He read it again and then again .
Then he did understand it .
The glass fell in ringing fragments on to the pavement , and Evan sprang over the barrier into the shop , brandishing his stick .
" What is this ?"
cried little Mr . Turnbull , starting up with hair aflame .
" How dare you break my window ?"
" Because it was the quickest cut to you ," cried Evan , stamping .
" Stand up and fight , you crapulous coward .
You dirty lunatic , stand up , will you ?
Have you any weapons here ?"
" Are you mad ?"
asked Turnbull , glaring .
" Are you ?"
cried Evan .
" Can you be anything else when you plaster your own house with that God - defying filth ?
Stand up and fight , I say ."
A great light like dawn came into Mr . Turnbull ' s face .
Behind his red hair and beard he turned deadly pale with pleasure .
Here , after twenty lone years of useless toil , he had his reward .
Someone was angry with the paper .
He bounded to his feet like a boy ; he saw a new youth opening before him .
And as not unfrequently happens to middle - aged gentlemen when they see a new youth opening before them , he found himself in the presence of the police .
The policemen , after some ponderous questionings , collared both the two enthusiasts .
They were more respectful , however , to the young man who had smashed the window , than to the miscreant who had had his window smashed .
There was an air of refined mystery about Evan MacIan , which did not exist in the irate little shopkeeper , an air of refined mystery which appealed to the policemen , for policemen , like most other English types , are at once snobs and poets .
MacIan might possibly be a gentleman , they felt ; the editor manifestly was not .
And the editor ' s fine rational republican appeals to his respect for law , and his ardour to be tried by his fellow citizens , seemed to the police quite as much gibberish as Evan ' s mysticism could have done .
The police were not used to hearing principles , even the principles of their own existence .
The police magistrate , before whom they were hurried and tried , was a Mr . Cumberland Vane , a cheerful , middle - aged gentleman , honourably celebrated for the lightness of his sentences and the lightness of his conversation .
He occasionally worked himself up into a sort of theoretic rage about certain particular offenders , such as the men who took pokers to their wives , talked in a loose , sentimental way about the desirability of flogging them , and was hopelessly bewildered by the fact that the wives seemed even more angry with him than with their husbands .
He was a tall , spruce man , with a twist of black moustache and incomparable morning dress .
He looked like a gentleman , and yet , somehow , like a stage gentleman .
He had often treated serious crimes against mere order or property with a humane flippancy .
Hence , about the mere breaking of an editor ' s window , he was almost uproarious .
" Come , Mr . MacIan , come ," he said , leaning back in his chair , " do you generally enter you friends ' houses by walking through the glass ?"
( Laughter .)
" He is not my friend ," said Evan , with the stolidity of a dull child .
" Not your friend , eh ?"
said the magistrate , sparkling .
" Is he your brother - in - law ?"
( Loud and prolonged laughter .)
" He is my enemy ," said Evan , simply ; " he is the enemy of God ."
Mr . Vane shifted sharply in his seat , dropping the eye - glass out of his eye in a momentary and not unmanly embarrassment .
" You mustn ' t talk like that here ," he said , roughly , and in a kind of hurry , " that has nothing to do with us ."
Evan opened his great , blue eyes ; " God ," he began .
" Be quiet ," said the magistrate , angrily , " it is most undesirable that things of that sort should be spoken about -- a -- in public , and in an ordinary Court of Justice .
Religion is -- a -- too personal a matter to be mentioned in such a place ."
" Is it ?"
answered the Highlander , " then what did those policemen swear by just now ?"
" That is no parallel ," answered Vane , rather irritably ; " of course there is a form of oath -- to be taken reverently -- reverently , and there ' s an end of it .
But to talk in a public place about one ' s most sacred and private sentiments -- well , I call it bad taste .
( Slight applause .)
I call it irreverent .
I call it irreverent , and I ' m not specially orthodox either ."
" I see you are not ," said Evan , " but I am ."
" We are wondering from the point ," said the police magistrate , pulling himself together .
" May I ask why you smashed this worthy citizen ' s window ?"
Evan turned a little pale at the mere memory , but he answered with the same cold and deadly literalism that he showed throughout .
" Because he blasphemed Our Lady ."
" I tell you once and for all ," cried Mr . Cumberland Vane , rapping his knuckles angrily on the table , " I tell you , once and for all , my man , that I will not have you turning on any religious rant or cant here .
Don ' t imagine that it will impress me .
The most religious people are not those who talk about it .
( Applause .)
You answer the questions and do nothing else ."
" I did nothing else ," said Evan , with a slight smile .
" Eh ," cried Vane , glaring through his eye - glass .
" You asked me why I broke his window ," said MacIan , with a face of wood .
" I answered , ' Because he blasphemed Our Lady .'
I had no other reason .
So I have no other answer ."
Vane continued to gaze at him with a sternness not habitual to him .
" You are not going the right way to work , Sir ," he said , with severity .
" You are not going the right way to work to -- a -- have your case treated with special consideration .
If you had simply expressed regret for what you had done , I should have been strongly inclined to dismiss the matter as an outbreak of temper .
Even now , if you say that you are sorry I shall only ----"
" But I am not in the least sorry ," said Evan , " I am very pleased ."
" I really believe you are insane ," said the stipendiary , indignantly , for he had really been doing his best as a good - natured man , to compose the dispute .
" What conceivable right have you to break other people ' s windows because their opinions do not agree with yours ?
This man only gave expression to his sincere belief ."
" So did I ," said the Highlander .
" And who are you ?"
exploded Vane .
" Are your views necessarily the right ones ?
Are you necessarily in possession of the truth ?"
" Yes ," said MacIan .
The magistrate broke into a contemptuous laugh .
" Oh , you want a nurse to look after you ," he said .
" You must pay L10 ."
Evan MacIan plunged his hands into his loose grey garment and drew out a queer looking leather purse .
It contained exactly twelve sovereigns .
He paid down the ten , coin by coin , in silence , and equally silently returned the remaining two to the receptacle .
Then he said , " May I say a word , your worship ?"
Cumberland Vane seemed half hypnotized with the silence and automatic movements of the stranger ; he made a movement with his head which might have been either " yes " or " no ".
" I only wished to say , your worship ," said MacIan , putting back the purse in his trouser pocket , " that smashing that shop window was , I confess , a useless and rather irregular business .
It may be excused , however , as a mere preliminary to further proceedings , a sort of preface .
Wherever and whenever I meet that man ," and he pointed to the editor of _The Atheist_ , " whether it be outside this door in ten minutes from now , or twenty years hence in some distant country , wherever and whenever I meet that man , I will fight him .
Do not be afraid .
I will not rush at him like a bully , or bear him down with any brute superiority .
I will fight him like a gentleman ; I will fight him as our fathers fought .
He shall choose how , sword or pistol , horse or foot .
But if he refuses , I will write his cowardice on every wall in the world .
If he had said of my mother what he said of the Mother of God , there is not a club of clean men in Europe that would deny my right to call him out .
If he had said it of my wife , you English would yourselves have pardoned me for beating him like a dog in the market place .
Your worship , I have no mother ; I have no wife .
I have only that which the poor have equally with the rich ; which the lonely have equally with the man of many friends .
To me this whole strange world is homely , because in the heart of it there is a home ; to me this cruel world is kindly , because higher than the heavens there is something more human than humanity .
If a man must not fight for this , may he fight for anything ?
I would fight for my friend , but if I lost my friend , I should still be there .
I would fight for my country , but if I lost my country , I should still exist .
But if what that devil dreams were true , I should not be -- I should burst like a bubble and be gone .
I could not live in that imbecile universe .
Shall I not fight for my own existence ?"
The magistrate recovered his voice and his presence of mind .
The first part of the speech , the bombastic and brutally practical challenge , stunned him with surprise ; but the rest of Evan ' s remarks , branching off as they did into theoretic phrases , gave his vague and very English mind ( full of memories of the hedging and compromise in English public speaking ) an indistinct sensation of relief , as if the man , though mad , were not so dangerous as he had thought .
He went into a sort of weary laughter .
" For Heaven ' s sake , man ," he said , " don ' t talk so much .
Let other people have a chance ( laughter ).
I trust all that you said about asking Mr . Turnbull to fight , may be regarded as rubbish .
In case of accidents , however , I must bind you over to keep the peace ."
" To keep the peace ," repeated Evan , " with whom ?"
" With Mr . Turnbull ," said Vane .
" Certainly not ," answered MacIan .
" What has he to do with peace ?"
" Do you mean to say ," began the magistrate , " that you refuse to ..." The voice of Turnbull himself clove in for the first time .
" Might I suggest ," he said , " That I , your worship , can settle to some extent this absurd matter myself .
This rather wild gentleman promises that he will not attack me with any ordinary assault -- and if he does , you may be sure the police shall hear of it .
But he says he will not .
He says he will challenge me to a duel ; and I cannot say anything stronger about his mental state than to say that I think that it is highly probable that he will .
( Laughter .)
But it takes two to make a duel , your worship ( renewed laughter ).
I do not in the least mind being described on every wall in the world as the coward who would not fight a man in Fleet Street , about whether the Virgin Mary had a parallel in Mesopotamian mythology .
No , your worship .
You need not trouble to bind him over to keep the peace .
I bind myself over to keep the peace , and you may rest quite satisfied that there will be no duel with me in it ."
Mr . Cumberland Vane rolled about , laughing in a sort of relief .
" You ' re like a breath of April , sir ," he cried .
" You ' re ozone after that fellow .
You ' re perfectly right .
Perhaps I have taken the thing too seriously .
I should love to see him sending you challenges and to see you smiling .
Well , well ."
Evan went out of the Court of Justice free , but strangely shaken , like a sick man .
Any punishment of suppression he would have felt as natural ; but the sudden juncture between the laughter of his judge and the laughter of the man he had wronged , made him feel suddenly small , or at least , defeated .
It was really true that the whole modern world regarded his world as a bubble .
No cruelty could have shown it , but their kindness showed it with a ghastly clearness .
As he was brooding , he suddenly became conscious of a small , stern figure , fronting him in silence .
Its eyes were grey and awful , and its beard red .
It was Turnbull .
" Well , sir ," said the editor of _The Atheist_ , " where is the fight to be ?
Name the field , sir ."
Evan stood thunderstruck .
He stammered out something , he knew not what ; he only guessed it by the answer of the other .
" Do I want to fight ?
Do I want to fight ?"
cried the furious Free - thinker .
" Why , you moonstruck scarecrow of superstition , do you think your dirty saints are the only people who can die ?
Haven ' t you hung atheists , and burned them , and boiled them , and did they ever deny their faith ?
Do you think we don ' t want to fight ?
Night and day I have prayed -- I have longed -- for an atheist revolution -- I have longed to see your blood and ours on the streets .
Let it be yours or mine ?"
" But you said ..." began MacIan .
" I know ," said Turnbull scornfully .
" And what did you say ?
You damned fool , you said things that might have got us locked up for a year , and shadowed by the coppers for half a decade .
If you wanted to fight , why did you tell that ass you wanted to ?
I got you out , to fight if you want to .
Now , fight if you dare ."
" I swear to you , then ," said MacIan , after a pause .
" I swear to you that nothing shall come between us .
I swear to you that nothing shall be in my heart or in my head till our swords clash together .
I swear it by the God you have denied , by the Blessed Lady you have blasphemed ; I swear it by the seven swords in her heart .
I swear it by the Holy Island where my fathers are , by the honour of my mother , by the secret of my people , and by the chalice of the Blood of God ."
The atheist drew up his head .
" And I ," he said , " give my word ."
III .
SOME OLD CURIOSITIES
The evening sky , a dome of solid gold , unflaked even by a single sunset cloud , steeped the meanest sights of London in a strange and mellow light .
It made a little greasy street of St . Martin ' s Lane look as if it were paved with gold .
It made the pawnbroker ' s half - way down it shine as if it were really that Mountain of Piety that the French poetic instinct has named it ; it made the mean pseudo - French bookshop , next but one to it , a shop packed with dreary indecency , show for a moment a kind of Parisian colour .
And the shop that stood between the pawnshop and the shop of dreary indecency , showed with quite a blaze of old world beauty , for it was , by accident , a shop not unbeautiful in itself .
The front window had a glimmer of bronze and blue steel , lit , as by a few stars , by the sparks of what were alleged to be jewels ; for it was in brief , a shop of bric - a - brac and old curiosities .
A row of half - burnished seventeenth - century swords ran like an ornate railing along the front of the window ; behind was a darker glimmer of old oak and old armour ; and higher up hung the most extraordinary looking South Sea tools or utensils , whether designed for killing enemies or merely for cooking them , no mere white man could possibly conjecture .
But the romance of the eye , which really on this rich evening , clung about the shop , had its main source in the accident of two doors standing open , the front door that opened on the street and a back door that opened on an odd green square of garden , that the sun turned to a square of gold .
There is nothing more beautiful than thus to look as it were through the archway of a house ; as if the open sky were an interior chamber , and the sun a secret lamp of the place .
I have suggested that the sunset light made everything lovely .
To say that it made the keeper of the curiosity shop lovely would be a tribute to it perhaps too extreme .
It would easily have made him beautiful if he had been merely squalid ; if he had been a Jew of the Fagin type .
But he was a Jew of another and much less admirable type ; a Jew with a very well - sounding name .
For though there are no hard tests for separating the tares and the wheat of any people , one rude but efficient guide is that the nice Jew is called Moses Solomon , and the nasty Jew is called Thornton Percy .
The keeper of the curiosity shop was of the Thornton Percy branch of the chosen people ; he belonged to those Lost Ten Tribes whose industrious object is to lose themselves .
He was a man still young , but already corpulent , with sleek dark hair , heavy handsome clothes , and a full , fat , permanent smile , which looked at the first glance kindly , and at the second cowardly .
The name over his shop was Henry Gordon , but two Scotchmen who were in his shop that evening could come upon no trace of a Scotch accent .
These two Scotchmen in this shop were careful purchasers , but free - handed payers .
One of them who seemed to be the principal and the authority ( whom , indeed , Mr . Henry Gordon fancied he had seen somewhere before ), was a small , sturdy fellow , with fine grey eyes , a square red tie and a square red beard , that he carried aggressively forward as if he defied anyone to pull it .
The other kept so much in the background in comparison that he looked almost ghostly in his grey cloak or plaid , a tall , sallow , silent young man .
The two Scotchmen were interested in seventeenth - century swords .
They were fastidious about them .
They had a whole armoury of these weapons brought out and rolled clattering about the counter , until they found two of precisely the same length .
Presumably they desired the exact symmetry for some decorative trophy .
Even then they felt the points , poised the swords for balance and bent them in a circle to see that they sprang straight again ; which , for decorative purposes , seems carrying realism rather far .
" These will do ," said the strange person with the red beard .
" And perhaps I had better pay for them at once .
And as you are the challenger , Mr . MacIan , perhaps you had better explain the situation ."
The tall Scotchman in grey took a step forward and spoke in a voice quite clear and bold , and yet somehow lifeless , like a man going through an ancient formality .
" The fact is , Mr . Gordon , we have to place our honour in your hands .
Words have passed between Mr . Turnbull and myself on a grave and invaluable matter , which can only be atoned for by fighting .
Unfortunately , as the police are in some sense pursuing us , we are hurried , and must fight now and without seconds .
But if you will be so kind as to take us into your little garden and see far play , we shall feel how ----"
The shopman recovered himself from a stunning surprise and burst out :
" Gentlemen , are you drunk ?
A duel !
A duel in my garden .
Go home , gentlemen , go home .
Why , what did you quarrel about ?"
" We quarrelled ," said Evan , in the same dead voice , " about religion ."
The fat shopkeeper rolled about in his chair with enjoyment .
" Well , this is a funny game ," he said .
" So you want to commit murder on behalf of religion .
Well , well my religion is a little respect for humanity , and ----"
" Excuse me ," cut in Turnbull , suddenly and fiercely , pointing towards the pawnbroker ' s next door .
" Don ' t you own that shop ?"
" Why -- er -- yes ," said Gordon .
" And don ' t you own that shop ?"
repeated the secularist , pointing backward to the pornographic bookseller .
" What if I do ?"
" Why , then ," cried Turnbull , with grating contempt .
" I will leave the religion of humanity confidently in your hands ; but I am sorry I troubled you about such a thing as honour .
Look here , my man .
I do believe in humanity .
I do believe in liberty .
My father died for it under the swords of the Yeomanry .
I am going to die for it , if need be , under that sword on your counter .
But if there is one sight that makes me doubt it it is your foul fat face .
It is hard to believe you were not meant to be ruled like a dog or killed like a cockroach .
Don ' t try your slave ' s philosophy on me .
We are going to fight , and we are going to fight in your garden , with your swords .
Be still !
Raise your voice above a whisper , and I run you through the body ."
Turnbull put the bright point of the sword against the gay waistcoat of the dealer , who stood choking with rage and fear , and an astonishment so crushing as to be greater than either .
" MacIan ," said Turnbull , falling almost into the familiar tone of a business partner , " MacIan , tie up this fellow and put a gag in his mouth .
Be still , I say , or I kill you where you stand ."
The man was too frightened to scream , but he struggled wildly , while Evan MacIan , whose long , lean hands were unusually powerful , tightened some old curtain cords round him , strapped a rope gag in his mouth and rolled him on his back on the floor .
" There ' s nothing very strong here ," said Evan , looking about him .
" I ' m afraid he ' ll work through that gag in half an hour or so ."
" Yes ," said Turnbull , " but one of us will be killed by that time ."
" Well , let ' s hope so ," said the Highlander , glancing doubtfully at the squirming thing on the floor .
" And now ," said Turnbull , twirling his fiery moustache and fingering his sword , " let us go into the garden .
What an exquisite summer evening !"
MacIan said nothing , but lifting his sword from the counter went out into the sun .
The brilliant light ran along the blades , filling the channels of them with white fire ; the combatants stuck their swords in the turf and took off their hats , coats , waistcoats , and boots .
Evan said a short Latin prayer to himself , during which Turnbull made something of a parade of lighting a cigarette which he flung away the instant after , when he saw MacIan apparently standing ready .
Yet MacIan was not exactly ready .
He stood staring like a man stricken with a trance .
" What are you staring at ?"
asked Turnbull .
" Do you see the bobbies ?"
" I see Jerusalem ," said Evan , " all covered with the shields and standards of the Saracens ."
" Jerusalem !"
said Turnbull , laughing .
" Well , we ' ve taken the only inhabitant into captivity ."
And he picked up his sword and made it whistle like a boy ' s wand .
" I beg your pardon ," said MacIan , dryly .
" Let us begin ."
MacIan made a military salute with his weapon , which Turnbull copied or parodied with an impatient contempt ; and in the stillness of the garden the swords came together with a clear sound like a bell .
The instant the blades touched , each felt them tingle to their very points with a personal vitality , as if they were two naked nerves of steel .
Evan had worn throughout an air of apathy , which might have been the stale apathy of one who wants nothing .
But it was indeed the more dreadful apathy of one who wants something and will care for nothing else .
And this was seen suddenly ; for the instant Evan engaged he disengaged and lunged with an infernal violence .
His opponent with a desperate promptitude parried and riposted ; the parry only just succeeded , the riposte failed .
Something big and unbearable seemed to have broken finally out of Evan in that first murderous lunge , leaving him lighter and cooler and quicker upon his feet .
He fell to again , fiercely still , but now with a fierce caution .
The next moment Turnbull lunged ; MacIan seemed to catch the point and throw it away from him , and was thrusting back like a thunderbolt , when a sound paralysed him ; another sound beside their ringing weapons .
Turnbull , perhaps from an equal astonishment , perhaps from chivalry , stopped also and forebore to send his sword through his exposed enemy .
" What ' s that ?"
asked Evan , hoarsely .
A heavy scraping sound , as of a trunk being dragged along a littered floor , came from the dark shop behind them .
" The old Jew has broken one of his strings , and he ' s crawling about ," said Turnbull .
" Be quick !
We must finish before he gets his gag out ."
" Yes , yes , quick !
On guard !"
cried the Highlander .
The blades crossed again with the same sound like song , and the men went to work again with the same white and watchful faces .
Evan , in his impatience , went back a little to his wildness .
He made windmills , as the French duellists say , and though he was probably a shade the better fencer of the two , he found the other ' s point pass his face twice so close as almost to graze his cheek .
The second time he realized the actual possibility of defeat and pulled himself together under a shock of the sanity of anger .
He narrowed , and , so to speak , tightened his operations : he fenced ( as the swordsman ' s boast goes ), in a wedding ring ; he turned Turnbull ' s thrusts with a maddening and almost mechanical click , like that of a machine .
Whenever Turnbull ' s sword sought to go over that other mere white streak it seemed to be caught in a complex network of steel .
He turned one thrust , turned another , turned another .
Then suddenly he went forward at the lunge with his whole living weight .
Turnbull leaped back , but Evan lunged and lunged and lunged again like a devilish piston rod or battering ram .
And high above all the sound of the struggle there broke into the silent evening a bellowing human voice , nasal , raucous , at the highest pitch of pain .
" Help !
Help !
Police !
Murder !
Murder !"
The gag was broken ; and the tongue of terror was loose .
" Keep on !"
gasped Turnbull .
" One may be killed before they come ."
The voice of the screaming shopkeeper was loud enough to drown not only the noise of the swords but all other noises around it , but even through its rending din there seemed to be some other stir or scurry .
And Evan , in the very act of thrusting at Turnbull , saw something in his eyes that made him drop his sword .
The atheist , with his grey eyes at their widest and wildest , was staring straight over his shoulder at the little archway of shop that opened on the street beyond .
And he saw the archway blocked and blackened with strange figures .
" We must bolt , MacIan ," he said abruptly .
" And there isn ' t a damned second to lose either .
Do as I do ."
With a bound he was beside the little cluster of his clothes and boots that lay on the lawn ; he snatched them up , without waiting to put any of them on ; and tucking his sword under his other arm , went wildly at the wall at the bottom of the garden and swung himself over it .
Three seconds after he had alighted in his socks on the other side , MacIan alighted beside him , also in his socks and also carrying clothes and sword in a desperate bundle .
They were in a by - street , very lean and lonely itself , but so close to a crowded thoroughfare that they could see the vague masses of vehicles going by , and could even see an individual hansom cab passing the corner at the instant .
Turnbull put his fingers to his mouth like a gutter - snipe and whistled twice .
Even as he did so he could hear the loud voices of the neighbours and the police coming down the garden .
The hansom swung sharply and came tearing down the little lane at his call .
When the cabman saw his fares , however , two wild - haired men in their shirts and socks with naked swords under their arms , he not unnaturally brought his readiness to a rigid stop and stared suspiciously .
" You talk to him a minute ," whispered Turnbull , and stepped back into the shadow of the wall .
" We want you ," said MacIan to the cabman , with a superb Scotch drawl of indifference and assurance , " to drive us to St . Pancras Station -- verra quick ."
" Very sorry , sir ," said the cabman , " but I ' d like to know it was all right .
Might I arst where you come from , sir ?"
A second after he spoke MacIan heard a heavy voice on the other side of the wall , saying : " I suppose I ' d better get over and look for them .
Give me a back ."
" Cabby ," said MacIan , again assuming the most deliberate and lingering lowland Scotch intonation , " if ye ' re really verra anxious to ken whar a ' come fra ', I ' ll tell ye as a verra great secret .
A ' come from Scotland .
And a ' m gaein ' to St . Pancras Station .
Open the doors , cabby ."
The cabman stared , but laughed .
The heavy voice behind the wall said : " Now then , a better back this time , Mr .
Price ."
And from the shadow of the wall Turnbull crept out .
He had struggled wildly into his coat ( leaving his waistcoat on the pavement ), and he was with a fierce pale face climbing up the cab behind the cabman .
MacIan had no glimmering notion of what he was up to , but an instinct of discipline , inherited from a hundred men of war , made him stick to his own part and trust the other man ' s .
" Open the doors , cabby ," he repeated , with something of the obstinate solemnity of a drunkard , " open the doors .
Did ye no hear me say St . Pancras Station ?"
The top of a policeman ' s helmet appeared above the garden wall .
The cabman did not see it , but he was still suspicious and began :
" Very sorry , sir , but ..." and with that the catlike Turnbull tore him out of his seat and hurled him into the street below , where he lay suddenly stunned .
" Give me his hat ," said Turnbull in a silver voice , that the other obeyed like a bugle .
" And get inside with the swords ."
And just as the red and raging face of a policeman appeared above the wall , Turnbull struck the horse with a terrible cut of the whip and the two went whirling away like a boomerang .
They had spun through seven streets and three or four squares before anything further happened .
Then , in the neighbourhood of Maida Vale , the driver opened the trap and talked through it in a manner not wholly common in conversations through that aperture .
" Mr . MacIan ," he said shortly and civilly .
" Mr . Turnbull ," replied his motionless fare .
" Under circumstances such as those in which we were both recently placed there was no time for anything but very abrupt action .
I trust therefore that you have no cause to complain of me if I have deferred until this moment a consultation with you on our present position or future action .
Our present position , Mr . MacIan , I imagine that I am under no special necessity of describing .
We have broken the law and we are fleeing from its officers .
Our future action is a thing about which I myself entertain sufficiently strong views ; but I have no right to assume or to anticipate yours , though I may have formed a decided conception of your character and a decided notion of what they will probably be .
Still , by every principle of intellectual justice , I am bound to ask you now and seriously whether you wish to continue our interrupted relations ."
MacIan leant his white and rather weary face back upon the cushions in order to speak up through the open door .
" Mr . Turnbull ," he said , " I have nothing to add to what I have said before .
It is strongly borne in upon me that you and I , the sole occupants of this runaway cab , are at this moment the two most important people in London , possibly in Europe .
I have been looking at all the streets as we went past , I have been looking at all the shops as we went past , I have been looking at all the churches as we went past .
At first , I felt a little dazed with the vastness of it all .
I could not understand what it all meant .
But now I know exactly what it all means .
It means us .
This whole civilization is only a dream .
You and I are the realities ."
" Religious symbolism ," said Mr . Turnbull , through the trap , " does not , as you are probably aware , appeal ordinarily to thinkers of the school to which I belong .
But in symbolism as you use it in this instance , I must , I think , concede a certain truth .
We _must_ fight this thing out somewhere ; because , as you truly say , we have found each other ' s reality .
We _must_ kill each other -- or convert each other .
I used to think all Christians were hypocrites , and I felt quite mildly towards them really .
But I know you are sincere -- and my soul is mad against you .
In the same way you used , I suppose , to think that all atheists thought atheism would leave them free for immorality -- and yet in your heart you tolerated them entirely .
Now you _know_ that I am an honest man , and you are mad against me , as I am against you .
Yes , that ' s it .
You can ' t be angry with bad men .
But a good man in the wrong -- why one thirsts for his blood .
Yes , you open for me a vista of thought ."
" Don ' t run into anything ," said Evan , immovably .
" There ' s something in that view of yours , too ," said Turnbull , and shut down the trap .
They sped on through shining streets that shot by them like arrows .
Mr . Turnbull had evidently a great deal of unused practical talent which was unrolling itself in this ridiculous adventure .
They had got away with such stunning promptitude that the police chase had in all probability not even properly begun .
But in case it had , the amateur cabman chose his dizzy course through London with a strange dexterity .
He did not do what would have first occurred to any ordinary outsider desiring to destroy his tracks .
He did not cut into by - ways or twist his way through mean streets .
His amateur common sense told him that it was precisely the poor street , the side street , that would be likely to remember and report the passing of a hansom cab , like the passing of a royal procession .
He kept chiefly to the great roads , so full of hansoms that a wilder pair than they might easily have passed in the press .
In one of the quieter streets Evan put on his boots .
Towards the top of Albany Street the singular cabman again opened the trap .
" Mr . MacIan ," he said , " I understand that we have now definitely settled that in the conventional language honour is not satisfied .
Our action must at least go further than it has gone under recent interrupted conditions .
That , I believe , is understood ."
" Perfectly ," replied the other with his bootlace in his teeth .
" Under those conditions ," continued Turnbull , his voice coming through the hole with a slight note of trepidation very unusual with him , " I have a suggestion to make , if that can be called a suggestion , which has probably occurred to you as readily as to me .
Until the actual event comes off we are practically in the position if not of comrades , at least of business partners .
Until the event comes off , therefore I should suggest that quarrelling would be inconvenient and rather inartistic ; while the ordinary exchange of politeness between man and man would be not only elegant but uncommonly practical ."
" You are perfectly right ," answered MacIan , with his melancholy voice , " in saying that all this has occurred to me .
All duellists should behave like gentlemen to each other .
But we , by the queerness of our position , are something much more than either duellists or gentlemen .
We are , in the oddest and most exact sense of the term , brothers -- in arms ."
" Mr . MacIan ," replied Turnbull , calmly , " no more need be said ."
And he closed the trap once more .
They had reached Finchley Road before he opened it again .
Then he said , " Mr . MacIan , may I offer you a cigar .
It will be a touch of realism ."
" Thank you ," answered Evan .
" You are very kind ."
And he began to smoke in the cab .
IV .
A DISCUSSION AT DAWN
The duellists had from their own point of view escaped or conquered the chief powers of the modern world .
They had satisfied the magistrate , they had tied the tradesman neck and heels , and they had left the police behind .
As far as their own feelings went they had melted into a monstrous sea ; they were but the fare and driver of one of the million hansoms that fill London streets .
But they had forgotten something ; they had forgotten journalism .
They had forgotten that there exists in the modern world , perhaps for the first time in history , a class of people whose interest is not that things should happen well or happen badly , should happen successfully or happen unsuccessfully , should happen to the advantage of this party or the advantage of that part , but whose interest simply is that things should happen .
It is the one great weakness of journalism as a picture of our modern existence , that it must be a picture made up entirely of exceptions .
We announce on flaring posters that a man has fallen off a scaffolding .
We do not announce on flaring posters that a man has not fallen off a scaffolding .
Yet this latter fact is fundamentally more exciting , as indicating that that moving tower of terror and mystery , a man , is still abroad upon the earth .
That the man has not fallen off a scaffolding is really more sensational ; and it is also some thousand times more common .
But journalism cannot reasonably be expected thus to insist upon the permanent miracles .
Busy editors cannot be expected to put on their posters , " Mr . Wilkinson Still Safe ," or " Mr . Jones , of Worthing , Not Dead Yet ."
They cannot announce the happiness of mankind at all .
They cannot describe all the forks that are not stolen , or all the marriages that are not judiciously dissolved .
Hence the complete picture they give of life is of necessity fallacious ; they can only represent what is unusual .
However democratic they may be , they are only concerned with the minority .
The incident of the religious fanatic who broke a window on Ludgate Hill was alone enough to set them up in good copy for the night .
But when the same man was brought before a magistrate and defied his enemy to mortal combat in the open court , then the columns would hardly hold the excruciating information , and the headlines were so large that there was hardly room for any of the text .
The _Daily Telegraph_ headed a column , " A Duel on Divinity ," and there was a correspondence afterwards which lasted for months , about whether police magistrates ought to mention religion .
The _Daily Mail_ in its dull , sensible way , headed the events , " Wanted to fight for the Virgin ."
Mr . James Douglas , in _The Star_ , presuming on his knowledge of philosophical and theological terms , described the Christian ' s outbreak under the title of " Dualist and Duellist ."
The _Daily News_ inserted a colourless account of the matter , but was pursued and eaten up for some weeks , with letters from outlying ministers , headed " Murder and Mariolatry ."
But the journalistic temperature was steadily and consistently heated by all these influences ; the journalists had tasted blood , prospectively , and were in the mood for more ; everything in the matter prepared them for further outbursts of moral indignation .
And when a gasping reporter rushed in in the last hours of the evening with the announcement that the two heroes of the Police Court had literally been found fighting in a London back garden , with a shopkeeper bound and gagged in the front of the house , the editors and sub - editors were stricken still as men are by great beatitudes .
The next morning , five or six of the great London dailies burst out simultaneously into great blossoms of eloquent leader - writing .
Towards the end all the leaders tended to be the same , but they all began differently .
The _Daily Telegraph_ , for instance began , " There will be little difference among our readers or among all truly English and law - abiding men touching the , etc .
etc ."
The _Daily Mail_ said , " People must learn , in the modern world , to keep their theological differences to themselves .
The fracas , etc .
etc ."
The _Daily News_ started , " Nothing could be more inimical to the cause of true religion than , etc .
etc ."
The _Times_ began with something about Celtic disturbances of the equilibrium of Empire , and the _Daily Express_ distinguished itself splendidly by omitting altogether so controversial a matter and substituting a leader about goloshes .
And the morning after that , the editors and the newspapers were in such a state , that , as the phrase is , there was no holding them .
Whatever secret and elvish thing it is that broods over editors and suddenly turns their brains , that thing had seized on the story of the broken glass and the duel in the garden .
It became monstrous and omnipresent , as do in our time the unimportant doings of the sect of the Agapemonites , or as did at an earlier time the dreary dishonesties of the Rhodesian financiers .
Questions were asked about it , and even answered , in the House of Commons .
The Government was solemnly denounced in the papers for not having done something , nobody knew what , to prevent the window being broken .
An enormous subscription was started to reimburse Mr . Gordon , the man who had been gagged in the shop .
Mr . MacIan , one of the combatants , became for some mysterious reason , singly and hugely popular as a comic figure in the comic papers and on the stage of the music hall .
He was always represented ( in defiance of fact ), with red whiskers , and a very red nose , and in full Highland costume .
And a song , consisting of an unimaginable number of verses , in which his name was rhymed with flat iron , the British Lion , sly ' un , dandelion , Spion ( With Kop in the next line ), was sung to crowded houses every night .
The papers developed a devouring thirst for the capture of the fugitives ; and when they had not been caught for forty - eight hours , they suddenly turned the whole matter into a detective mystery .
Letters under the heading , " Where are They ," poured in to every paper , with every conceivable kind of explanation , running them to earth in the Monument , the Twopenny Tube , Epping Forest , Westminster Abbey , rolled up in carpets at Shoolbreds , locked up in safes in Chancery Lane .
Yes , the papers were very interesting , and Mr . Turnbull unrolled a whole bundle of them for the amusement of Mr . MacIan as they sat on a high common to the north of London , in the coming of the white dawn .
The darkness in the east had been broken with a bar of grey ; the bar of grey was split with a sword of silver and morning lifted itself laboriously over London .
From the spot where Turnbull and MacIan were sitting on one of the barren steeps behind Hampstead , they could see the whole of London shaping itself vaguely and largely in the grey and growing light , until the white sun stood over it and it lay at their feet , the splendid monstrosity that it is .
Its bewildering squares and parallelograms were compact and perfect as a Chinese puzzle ; an enormous hieroglyphic which man must decipher or die .
There fell upon both of them , but upon Turnbull more than the other , because he know more what the scene signified , that quite indescribable sense as of a sublime and passionate and heart - moving futility , which is never evoked by deserts or dead men or men neglected and barbarous , which can only be invoked by the sight of the enormous genius of man applied to anything other than the best .
Turnbull , the old idealistic democrat , had so often reviled the democracy and reviled them justly for their supineness , their snobbishness , their evil reverence for idle things .
He was right enough ; for our democracy has only one great fault ; it is not democratic .
And after denouncing so justly average modern men for so many years as sophists and as slaves , he looked down from an empty slope in Hampstead and saw what gods they are .
Their achievement seemed all the more heroic and divine , because it seemed doubtful whether it was worth doing at all .
There seemed to be something greater than mere accuracy in making such a mistake as London .
And what was to be the end of it all ?
what was to be the ultimate transformation of this common and incredible London man , this workman on a tram in Battersea , his clerk on an omnibus in Cheapside ?
Turnbull , as he stared drearily , murmured to himself the words of the old atheistic and revolutionary Swinburne who had intoxicated his youth :
" And still we ask if God or man Can loosen thee Lazarus ; Bid thee rise up republican , And save thyself and all of us .
But no disciple ' s tongue can say If thou can ' st take our sins away ."
Turnbull shivered slightly as if behind the earthly morning he felt the evening of the world , the sunset of so many hopes .
Those words were from " Songs before Sunrise ".
But Turnbull ' s songs at their best were songs after sunrise , and sunrise had been no such great thing after all .
Turnbull shivered again in the sharp morning air .
MacIan was also gazing with his face towards the city , but there was that about his blind and mystical stare that told one , so to speak , that his eyes were turned inwards .
When Turnbull said something to him about London , they seemed to move as at a summons and come out like two householders coming out into their doorways .
" Yes ," he said , with a sort of stupidity .
" It ' s a very big place ."
There was a somewhat unmeaning silence , and then MacIan said again :
" It ' s a very big place .
When I first came into it I was frightened of it .
Frightened exactly as one would be frightened at the sight of a man forty feet high .
I am used to big things where I come from , big mountains that seem to fill God ' s infinity , and the big sea that goes to the end of the world .
But then these things are all shapeless and confused things , not made in any familiar form .
But to see the plain , square , human things as large as that , houses so large and streets so large , and the town itself so large , was like having screwed some devil ' s magnifying glass into one ' s eye .
It was like seeing a porridge bowl as big as a house , or a mouse - trap made to catch elephants ."
" Like the land of the Brobdingnagians ," said Turnbull , smiling .
" Oh !
Where is that ?"
said MacIan .
Turnbull said bitterly , " In a book ," and the silence fell suddenly between them again .
They were sitting in a sort of litter on the hillside ; all the things they had hurriedly collected , in various places , for their flight , were strewn indiscriminately round them .
The two swords with which they had lately sought each other ' s lives were flung down on the grass at random , like two idle walking - sticks .
Some provisions they had bought last night , at a low public house , in case of undefined contingencies , were tossed about like the materials of an ordinary picnic , here a basket of chocolate , and there a bottle of wine .
And to add to the disorder finally , there were strewn on top of everything , the most disorderly of modern things , newspapers , and more newspapers , and yet again newspapers , the ministers of the modern anarchy .
Turnbull picked up one of them drearily , and took out a pipe .
" There ' s a lot about us ," he said .
" Do you mind if I light up ?"
" Why should I mind ?"
asked MacIan .
Turnbull eyed with a certain studious interest , the man who did not understand any of the verbal courtesies ; he lit his pipe and blew great clouds out of it .
" Yes ," he resumed .
" The matter on which you and I are engaged is at this moment really the best copy in England .
I am a journalist , and I know .
For the first time , perhaps , for many generations , the English are really more angry about a wrong thing done in England than they are about a wrong thing done in France ."
" It is not a wrong thing ," said MacIan .
Turnbull laughed .
" You seem unable to understand the ordinary use of the human language .
If I did not suspect that you were a genius , I should certainly know you were a blockhead .
I fancy we had better be getting along and collecting our baggage ."
And he jumped up and began shoving the luggage into his pockets , or strapping it on to his back .
As he thrust a tin of canned meat , anyhow , into his bursting side pocket , he said casually :
" I only meant that you and I are the most prominent people in the English papers ."
" Well , what did you expect ?"
asked MacIan , opening his great grave blue eyes .
" The papers are full of us ," said Turnbull , stooping to pick up one of the swords .
MacIan stooped and picked up the other .
" Yes ," he said , in his simple way .
" I have read what they have to say .
But they don ' t seem to understand the point ."
" The point of what ?"
asked Turnbull .
" The point of the sword ," said MacIan , violently , and planted the steel point in the soil like a man planting a tree .
" That is a point ," said Turnbull , grimly , " that we will discuss later .
Come along ."
Turnbull tied the last tin of biscuits desperately to himself with string ; and then spoke , like a diver girt for plunging , short and sharp .
" Now , Mr . MacIan , you must listen to me .
You must listen to me , not merely because I know the country , which you might learn by looking at a map , but because I know the people of the country , whom you could not know by living here thirty years .
That infernal city down there is awake ; and it is awake against us .
All those endless rows of windows and windows are all eyes staring at us .
All those forests of chimneys are fingers pointing at us , as we stand here on the hillside .
This thing has caught on .
For the next six mortal months they will think of nothing but us , as for six mortal months they thought of nothing but the Dreyfus case .
Oh , I know it ' s funny .
They let starving children , who don ' t want to die , drop by the score without looking round .
But because two gentlemen , from private feelings of delicacy , do want to die , they will mobilize the army and navy to prevent them .
For half a year or more , you and I , Mr . MacIan , will be an obstacle to every reform in the British Empire .
We shall prevent the Chinese being sent out of the Transvaal and the blocks being stopped in the Strand .
We shall be the conversational substitute when anyone recommends Home Rule , or complains of sky signs .
Therefore , do not imagine , in your innocence , that we have only to melt away among those English hills as a Highland cateran might into your god - forsaken Highland mountains .
We must be eternally on our guard ; we must live the hunted life of two distinguished criminals .
We must expect to be recognized as much as if we were Napoleon escaping from Elba .
We must be prepared for our descriptions being sent to every tiny village , and for our faces being recognized by every ambitious policeman .
We must often sleep under the stars as if we were in Africa .
Last and most important we must not dream of effecting our -- our final settlement , which will be a thing as famous as the Phoenix Park murders , unless we have made real and precise arrangements for our isolation -- I will not say our safety .
We must not , in short , fight until we have thrown them off our scent , if only for a moment .
For , take my word for it , Mr . MacIan , if the British Public once catches us up , the British Public will prevent the duel , if it is only by locking us both up in asylums for the rest of our days ."
MacIan was looking at the horizon with a rather misty look .
" I am not at all surprised ," he said , " at the world being against us .
It makes me feel I was right to ----"
" Yes ?"
said Turnbull .
" To smash your window ," said MacIan .
" I have woken up the world ."
" Very well , then ," said Turnbull , stolidly .
" Let us look at a few final facts .
Beyond that hill there is comparatively clear country .
Fortunately , I know the part well , and if you will follow me exactly , and , when necessary , on your stomach , we may be able to get ten miles out of London , literally without meeting anyone at all , which will be the best possible beginning , at any rate .
We have provisions for at least two days and two nights , three days if we do it carefully .
We may be able to get fifty or sixty miles away without even walking into an inn door .
I have the biscuits and the tinned meat , and the milk .
You have the chocolate , I think ?
And the brandy ?"
" Yes ," said MacIan , like a soldier taking orders .
" Very well , then , come on .
March .
We turn under that third bush and so down into the valley ."
And he set off ahead at a swinging walk .
Then he stopped suddenly ; for he realized that the other was not following .
Evan MacIan was leaning on his sword with a lowering face , like a man suddenly smitten still with doubt .
" What on earth is the matter ?"
asked Turnbull , staring in some anger .
Evan made no reply .
" What the deuce is the matter with you ?"
demanded the leader , again , his face slowly growing as red as his beard ; then he said , suddenly , and in a more human voice , " Are you in pain , MacIan ?"
" Yes ," replied the Highlander , without lifting his face .
" Take some brandy ," cried Turnbull , walking forward hurriedly towards him .
" You ' ve got it ."
" It ' s not in the body ," said MacIan , in his dull , strange way .
" The pain has come into my mind .
A very dreadful thing has just come into my thoughts ."
" What the devil are you talking about ?"
asked Turnbull .
MacIan broke out with a queer and living voice .
" We must fight now , Turnbull .
We must fight now .
A frightful thing has come upon me , and I know it must be now and here .
I must kill you here ," he cried , with a sort of tearful rage impossible to describe .
" Here , here , upon this blessed grass ."
" Why , you idiot ," began Turnbull .
" The hour has come -- the black hour God meant for it .
Quick , it will soon be gone .
Quick !"
And he flung the scabbard from him furiously , and stood with the sunlight sparkling along his sword .
" You confounded fool ," repeated Turnbull .
" Put that thing up again , you ass ; people will come out of that house at the first clash of the steel ."
" One of us will be dead before they come ," said the other , hoarsely , " for this is the hour God meant ."
" Well , I never thought much of God ," said the editor of _The Atheist_ , losing all patience .
" And I think less now .
Never mind what God meant .
Kindly enlighten my pagan darkness as to what the devil _you_ mean ."
" The hour will soon be gone .
In a moment it will be gone ," said the madman .
" It is now , now , now that I must nail your blaspheming body to the earth -- now , now that I must avenge Our Lady on her vile slanderer .
Now or never .
For the dreadful thought is in my mind ."
" And what thought ," asked Turnbull , with frantic composure , " occupies what you call your mind ?"
" I must kill you now ," said the fanatic , " because ----"
" Well , because ," said Turnbull , patiently .
" Because I have begun to like you ."
Turnbull ' s face had a sudden spasm in the sunlight , a change so instantaneous that it left no trace behind it ; and his features seemed still carved into a cold stare .
But when he spoke again he seemed like a man who was placidly pretending to misunderstand something that he understood perfectly well .
" Your affection expresses itself in an abrupt form ," he began , but MacIan broke the brittle and frivolous speech to pieces with a violent voice .
" Do not trouble to talk like that ," he said .
" You know what I mean as well as I know it .
Come on and fight , I say .
Perhaps you are feeling just as I do ."
Turnbull ' s face flinched again in the fierce sunlight , but his attitude kept its contemptuous ease .
" Your Celtic mind really goes too fast for me ," he said ; " let me be permitted in my heavy Lowland way to understand this new development .
My dear Mr . MacIan , what do you really mean ?"
MacIan still kept the shining sword - point towards the other ' s breast .
" You know what I mean .
You mean the same yourself .
We must fight now or else ----"
" Or else ?"
repeated Turnbull , staring at him with an almost blinding gravity .
" Or else we may not want to fight at all ," answered Evan , and the end of his speech was like a despairing cry .
Turnbull took out his own sword suddenly as if to engage ; then planting it point downwards for a moment , he said , " Before we begin , may I ask you a question ?"
MacIan bowed patiently , but with burning eyes .
" You said , just now ," continued Turnbull , presently , " that if we did not fight now , we might not want to fight at all .
How would you feel about the matter if we came not to want to fight at all ?"
" I should feel ," answered the other , " just as I should feel if you had drawn your sword , and I had run away from it .
I should feel that because I had been weak , justice had not been done ."
" Justice ," answered Turnbull , with a thoughtful smile , " but we are talking about your feelings .
And what do you mean by justice , apart from your feelings ?"
MacIan made a gesture of weary recognition !
" Oh , Nominalism ," he said , with a sort of sigh , " we had all that out in the twelfth century ."
" I wish we could have it out now ," replied the other , firmly .
" Do you really mean that if you came to think me right , you would be certainly wrong ?"
" If I had a blow on the back of my head , I might come to think you a green elephant ," answered MacIan , " but have I not the right to say now , that if I thought that I should think wrong ?"
" Then you are quite certain that it would be wrong to like me ?"
asked Turnbull , with a slight smile .
" No ," said Evan , thoughtfully , " I do not say that .
It may not be the devil , it may be some part of God I am not meant to know .
But I had a work to do , and it is making the work difficult ."
" And I suppose ," said the atheist , quite gently , " that you and I know all about which part of God we ought to know ."
MacIan burst out like a man driven back and explaining everything .
" The Church is not a thing like the Athenaeum Club ," he cried .
" If the Athenaeum Club lost all its members , the Athenaeum Club would dissolve and cease to exist .
But when we belong to the Church we belong to something which is outside all of us ; which is outside everything you talk about , outside the Cardinals and the Pope .
They belong to it , but it does not belong to them .
If we all fell dead suddenly , the Church would still somehow exist in God .
Confound it all , don ' t you see that I am more sure of its existence than I am of my own existence ?
And yet you ask me to trust my temperament , my own temperament , which can be turned upside down by two bottles of claret or an attack of the jaundice .
You ask me to trust that when it softens towards you and not to trust the thing which I believe to be outside myself and more real than the blood in my body ."
" Stop a moment ," said Turnbull , in the same easy tone , " Even in the very act of saying that you believe this or that , you imply that there is a part of yourself that you trust even if there are many parts which you mistrust .
If it is only you that like me , surely , also , it is only you that believe in the Catholic Church ."
Evan remained in an unmoved and grave attitude .
" There is a part of me which is divine ," he answered , " a part that can be trusted , but there are also affections which are entirely animal and idle ."
" And you are quite certain , I suppose ," continued Turnbull , " that if even you esteem me the esteem would be wholly animal and idle ?"
For the first time MacIan started as if he had not expected the thing that was said to him .
At last he said :
" Whatever in earth or heaven it is that has joined us two together , it seems to be something which makes it impossible to lie .
No , I do not think that the movement in me towards you was ... was that surface sort of thing .
It may have been something deeper ... something strange .
I cannot understand the thing at all .
But understand this and understand it thoroughly , if I loved you my love might be divine .
No , it is not some trifle that we are fighting about .
It is not some superstition or some symbol .
When you wrote those words about Our Lady , you were in that act a wicked man doing a wicked thing .
If I hate you it is because you have hated goodness .
And if I like you ... it is because you are good ."
Turnbull ' s face wore an indecipherable expression .
" Well , shall we fight now ?"
he said .
" Yes ," said MacIan , with a sudden contraction of his black brows , " yes , it must be now ."
The bright swords crossed , and the first touch of them , travelling down blade and arm , told each combatant that the heart of the other was awakened .
It was not in that way that the swords rang together when they had rushed on each other in the little garden behind the dealer ' s shop .
There was a pause , and then MacIan made a movement as if to thrust , and almost at the same moment Turnbull suddenly and calmly dropped his sword .
Evan stared round in an unusual bewilderment , and then realized that a large man in pale clothes and a Panama hat was strolling serenely towards them .
V . THE PEACEMAKER
When the combatants , with crossed swords , became suddenly conscious of a third party , they each made the same movement .
It was as quick as the snap of a pistol , and they altered it instantaneously and recovered their original pose , but they had both made it , they had both seen it , and they both knew what it was .
It was not a movement of anger at being interrupted .
Say or think what they would , it was a movement of relief .
A force within them , and yet quite beyond them , seemed slowly and pitilessly washing away the adamant of their oath .
As mistaken lovers might watch the inevitable sunset of first love , these men watched the sunset of their first hatred .
Their hearts were growing weaker and weaker against each other .
When their weapons rang and riposted in the little London garden , they could have been very certain that if a third party had interrupted them something at least would have happened .
They would have killed each other or they would have killed him .
But now nothing could undo or deny that flash of fact , that for a second they had been glad to be interrupted .
Some new and strange thing was rising higher and higher in their hearts like a high sea at night .
It was something that seemed all the more merciless , because it might turn out an enormous mercy .
Was there , perhaps , some such fatalism in friendship as all lovers talk about in love ?
Did God make men love each other against their will ?
" I ' m sure you ' ll excuse my speaking to you ," said the stranger , in a voice at once eager and deprecating .
The voice was too polite for good manners .
It was incongruous with the eccentric spectacle of the duellists which ought to have startled a sane and free man .
It was also incongruous with the full and healthy , though rather loose physique of the man who spoke .
At the first glance he looked a fine animal , with curling gold beard and hair , and blue eyes , unusually bright .
It was only at the second glance that the mind felt a sudden and perhaps unmeaning irritation at the way in which the gold beard retreated backwards into the waistcoat , and the way in which the finely shaped nose went forward as if smelling its way .
And it was only , perhaps , at the hundredth glance that the bright blue eyes , which normally before and after the instant seemed brilliant with intelligence , seemed as it were to be brilliant with idiocy .
He was a heavy , healthy - looking man , who looked all the larger because of the loose , light coloured clothes that he wore , and that had in their extreme lightness and looseness , almost a touch of the tropics .
But a closer examination of his attire would have shown that even in the tropics it would have been unique ; but it was all woven according to some hygienic texture which no human being had ever heard of before , and which was absolutely necessary even for a day ' s health .
He wore a huge broad - brimmed hat , equally hygienic , very much at the back of his head , and his voice coming out of so heavy and hearty a type of man was , as I have said , startlingly shrill and deferential .
" I ' m sure you ' ll excuse my speaking to you ," he said .
" Now , I wonder if you are in some little difficulty which , after all , we could settle very comfortably together ?
Now , you don ' t mind my saying this , do you ?"
The face of both combatants remained somewhat solid under this appeal .
But the stranger , probably taking their silence for a gathering shame , continued with a kind of gaiety :
" So you are the young men I have read about in the papers .
Well , of course , when one is young , one is rather romantic .
Do you know what I always say to young people ?"
A blank silence followed this gay inquiry .
Then Turnbull said in a colourless voice :
" As I was forty - seven last birthday , I probably came into the world too soon for the experience ."
" Very good , very good ," said the friendly person .
" Dry Scotch humour .
Dry Scotch humour .
Well now .
I understand that you two people want to fight a duel .
I suppose you aren ' t much up in the modern world .
We ' ve quite outgrown duelling , you know .
In fact , Tolstoy tells us that we shall soon outgrow war , which he says is simply a duel between nations .
A duel between nations .
But there is no doubt about our having outgrown duelling ."
Waiting for some effect upon his wooden auditors , the stranger stood beaming for a moment and then resumed :
" Now , they tell me in the newspapers that you are really wanting to fight about something connected with Roman Catholicism .
Now , do you know what I always say to Roman Catholics ?"
" No ," said Turnbull , heavily .
" Do _they_ ?"
It seemed to be a characteristic of the hearty , hygienic gentleman that he always forgot the speech he had made the moment before .
Without enlarging further on the fixed form of his appeal to the Church of Rome , he laughed cordially at Turnbull ' s answer ; then his wandering blue eyes caught the sunlight on the swords , and he assumed a good - humoured gravity .
" But you know this is a serious matter ," he said , eyeing Turnbull and MacIan , as if they had just been keeping the table in a roar with their frivolities .
" I am sure that if I appealed to your higher natures ... your higher natures .
Every man has a higher nature and a lower nature .
Now , let us put the matter very plainly , and without any romantic nonsense about honour or anything of that sort .
Is not bloodshed a great sin ?"
" No ," said MacIan , speaking for the first time .
" Well , really , really !"
said the peacemaker .
" Murder is a sin ," said the immovable Highlander .
" There is no sin of bloodshed ."
" Well , we won ' t quarrel about a word ," said the other , pleasantly .
" Why on earth not ?"
said MacIan , with a sudden asperity .
" Why shouldn ' t we quarrel about a word ?
What is the good of words if they aren ' t important enough to quarrel over ?
Why do we choose one word more than another if there isn ' t any difference between them ?
If you called a woman a chimpanzee instead of an angel , wouldn ' t there be a quarrel about a word ?
If you ' re not going to argue about words , what are you going to argue about ?
Are you going to convey your meaning to me by moving your ears ?
The Church and the heresies always used to fight about words , because they are the only things worth fighting about .
I say that murder is a sin , and bloodshed is not , and that there is as much difference between those words as there is between the word ' yes ' and the word ' no '; or rather more difference , for ' yes ' and ' no ', at least , belong to the same category .
Murder is a spiritual incident .
Bloodshed is a physical incident .
A surgeon commits bloodshed .
" Ah , you ' re a casuist !"
said the large man , wagging his head .
" Now , do you know what I always say to casuists ...?"
MacIan made a violent gesture ; and Turnbull broke into open laughter .
The peacemaker did not seem to be in the least annoyed , but continued in unabated enjoyment .
" Well , well ," he said , " let us get back to the point .
Now Tolstoy has shown that force is no remedy ; so you see the position in which I am placed .
I am doing my best to stop what I ' m sure you won ' t mind my calling this really useless violence , this really quite wrong violence of yours .
But it ' s against my principles to call in the police against you , because the police are still on a lower moral plane , so to speak , because , in short , the police undoubtedly sometimes employ force .
Tolstoy has shown that violence merely breeds violence in the person towards whom it is used , whereas Love , on the other hand , breeds Love .
So you see how I am placed .
I am reduced to use Love in order to stop you .
I am obliged to use Love ."
He gave to the word an indescribable sound of something hard and heavy , as if he were saying " boots ".
Turnbull suddenly gripped his sword and said , shortly , " I see how you are placed quite well , sir .
You will not call the police .
Mr . MacIan , shall we engage ?"
MacIan plucked his sword out of the grass .
" I must and will stop this shocking crime ," cried the Tolstoian , crimson in the face .
" It is against all modern ideas .
It is against the principle of love .
How you , sir , who pretend to be a Christian ..."
MacIan turned upon him with a white face and bitter lip .
" Sir ," he said , " talk about the principle of love as much as you like .
You seem to me colder than a lump of stone ; but I am willing to believe that you may at some time have loved a cat , or a dog , or a child .
When you were a baby , I suppose you loved your mother .
Talk about love , then , till the world is sick of the word .
But don ' t you talk about Christianity .
Don ' t you dare to say one word , white or black , about it .
Christianity is , as far as you are concerned , a horrible mystery .
Keep clear of it , keep silent upon it , as you would upon an abomination .
It is a thing that has made men slay and torture each other ; and you will never know why .
It is a thing that has made men do evil that good might come ; and you will never understand the evil , let alone the good .
Christianity is a thing that could only make you vomit , till you are other than you are .
I would not justify it to you even if I could .
Hate it , in God ' s name , as Turnbull does , who is a man .
It is a monstrous thing , for which men die .
And if you will stand here and talk about love for another ten minutes it is very probable that you will see a man die for it ."
And he fell on guard .
Turnbull was busy settling something loose in his elaborate hilt , and the pause was broken by the stranger .
" Suppose I call the police ?"
he said , with a heated face .
" And deny your most sacred dogma ," said MacIan .
" Dogma !"
cried the man , in a sort of dismay .
" Oh , we have no _dogmas_ , you know !"
There was another silence , and he said again , airily :
" You know , I think , there ' s something in what Shaw teaches about no moral principles being quite fixed .
Have you ever read _The Quintessence of Ibsenism_ ?
Of course he went very wrong over the war ."
Turnbull , with a bent , flushed face , was tying up the loose piece of the pommel with string .
With the string in his teeth , he said , " Oh , make up your damned mind and clear out !"
" It ' s a serious thing ," said the philosopher , shaking his head .
" I must be alone and consider which is the higher point of view .
I rather feel that in a case so extreme as this ..." and he went slowly away .
As he disappeared among the trees , they heard him murmuring in a sing - song voice , " New occasions teach new duties ," out of a poem by James Russell Lowell .
" Ah ," said MacIan , drawing a deep breath .
" Don ' t you believe in prayer now ?
I prayed for an angel ."
" An hour ago ," said the Highlander , in his heavy meditative voice , " I felt the devil weakening my heart and my oath against you , and I prayed that God would send an angel to my aid ."
" Well ?"
inquired the other , finishing his mending and wrapping the rest of the string round his hand to get a firmer grip .
" Well ?"
" Well , that man was an angel ," said MacIan .
" I didn ' t know they were as bad as that ," answered Turnbull .
" We know that devils sometimes quote Scripture and counterfeit good ," replied the mystic .
" Why should not angels sometimes come to show us the black abyss of evil on whose brink we stand .
If that man had not tried to stop us ... I might ... I might have stopped ."
" I know what you mean ," said Turnbull , grimly .
" But then he came ," broke out MacIan , " and my soul said to me : ' Give up fighting , and you will become like That .
Give up vows and dogmas , and fixed things , and you may grow like That .
You may learn , also , that fog of false philosophy .
You may grow fond of that mire of crawling , cowardly morals , and you may come to think a blow bad , because it hurts , and not because it humiliates .
You may come to think murder wrong , because it is violent , and not because it is unjust .
Oh , you blasphemer of the good , an hour ago I almost loved you !
But do not fear for me now .
I have heard the word Love pronounced in _his_ intonation ; and I know exactly what it means .
On guard !'"
The swords caught on each other with a dreadful clang and jar , full of the old energy and hate ; and at once plunged and replunged .
Once more each man ' s heart had become the magnet of a mad sword .
Suddenly , furious as they were , they were frozen for a moment motionless .
" What noise is that ?"
asked the Highlander , hoarsely .
" I think I know ," replied Turnbull .
" What ?...
What ?"
cried the other .
" The student of Shaw and Tolstoy has made up his remarkable mind ," said Turnbull , quietly .
" The police are coming up the hill ."
VI .
THE OTHER PHILOSOPHER
Between high hedges in Hertfordshire , hedges so high as to create a kind of grove , two men were running .
They did not run in a scampering or feverish manner , but in the steady swing of the pendulum .
Across the great plains and uplands to the right and left of the lane , a long tide of sunset light rolled like a sea of ruby , lighting up the long terraces of the hills and picking out the few windows of the scattered hamlets in startling blood - red sparks .
But the lane was cut deep in the hill and remained in an abrupt shadow .
The two men running in it had an impression not uncommonly experienced between those wild green English walls ; a sense of being led between the walls of a maze .
Though their pace was steady it was vigorous ; their faces were heated and their eyes fixed and bright .
There was , indeed , something a little mad in the contrast between the evening ' s stillness over the empty country - side , and these two figures fleeing wildly from nothing .
They had the look of two lunatics , possibly they were .
" Are you all right ?"
said Turnbull , with civility .
" Can you keep this up ?"
" Quite easily , thank you ," replied MacIan .
" I run very well ."
" Is that a qualification in a family of warriors ?"
asked Turnbull .
" Undoubtedly .
Rapid movement is essential ," answered MacIan , who never saw a joke in his life .
Turnbull broke out into a short laugh , and silence fell between them , the panting silence of runners .
Then MacIan said : " We run better than any of those policemen .
They are too fat .
Why do you make your policemen so fat ?"
" I didn ' t do much towards making them fat myself ," replied Turnbull , genially , " but I flatter myself that I am now doing something towards making them thin .
You ' ll see they will be as lean as rakes by the time they catch us .
They will look like your friend , Cardinal Manning ."
" But they won ' t catch us ," said MacIan , in his literal way .
" No , we beat them in the great military art of running away ," returned the other .
" They won ' t catch us unless ----"
MacIan turned his long equine face inquiringly .
" Unless what ?"
he said , for Turnbull had gone silent suddenly , and seemed to be listening intently as he ran as a horse does with his ears turned back .
" Unless what ?"
repeated the Highlander .
" Unless they do -- what they have done .
Listen ."
MacIan slackened his trot , and turned his head to the trail they had left behind them .
Across two or three billows of the up and down lane came along the ground the unmistakable throbbing of horses ' hoofs .
" They have put the mounted police on us ," said Turnbull , shortly .
" Good Lord , one would think we were a Revolution ."
" So we are ," said MacIan calmly .
" What shall we do ?
Shall we turn on them with our points ?"
" It may come to that ," answered Turnbull , " though if it does , I reckon that will be the last act .
We must put it off if we can ."
And he stared and peered about him between the bushes .
" If we could hide somewhere the beasts might go by us ," he said .
" The police have their faults , but thank God they ' re inefficient .
Why , here ' s the very thing .
Be quick and quiet .
Follow me ."
He suddenly swung himself up the high bank on one side of the lane .
It was almost as high and smooth as a wall , and on the top of it the black hedge stood out over them as an angle , almost like a thatched roof of the lane .
And the burning evening sky looked down at them through the tangle with red eyes as of an army of goblins .
Turnbull hoisted himself up and broke the hedge with his body .
As his head and shoulders rose above it they turned to flame in the full glow as if lit up by an immense firelight .
His red hair and beard looked almost scarlet , and his pale face as bright as a boy ' s .
Something violent , something that was at once love and hatred , surged in the strange heart of the Gael below him .
He had an unutterable sense of epic importance , as if he were somehow lifting all humanity into a prouder and more passionate region of the air .
As he swung himself up also into the evening light he felt as if he were rising on enormous wings .
Legends of the morning of the world which he had heard in childhood or read in youth came back upon him in a cloudy splendour , purple tales of wrath and friendship , like Roland and Oliver , or Balin and Balan , reminding him of emotional entanglements .
Men who had loved each other and then fought each other ; men who had fought each other and then loved each other , together made a mixed but monstrous sense of momentousness .
The crimson seas of the sunset seemed to him like a bursting out of some sacred blood , as if the heart of the world had broken .
Turnbull was wholly unaffected by any written or spoken poetry ; his was a powerful and prosaic mind .
But even upon him there came for the moment something out of the earth and the passionate ends of the sky .
The only evidence was in his voice , which was still practical but a shade more quiet .
" Do you see that summer - house - looking thing over there ?"
he asked shortly .
" That will do for us very well ."
Keeping himself free from the tangle of the hedge he strolled across a triangle of obscure kitchen garden , and approached a dismal shed or lodge a yard or two beyond it .
It was a weather - stained hut of grey wood , which with all its desolation retained a tag or two of trivial ornament , which suggested that the thing had once been a sort of summer - house , and the place probably a sort of garden .
" That is quite invisible from the road ," said Turnbull , as he entered it , " and it will cover us up for the night ."
MacIan looked at him gravely for a few moments .
" Sir ," he said , " I ought to say something to you .
I ought to say ----"
" Hush ," said Turnbull , suddenly lifting his hand ; " be still , man ."
In the sudden silence , the drumming of the distant horses grew louder and louder with inconceivable rapidity , and the cavalcade of police rushed by below them in the lane , almost with the roar and rattle of an express train .
" I ought to tell you ," continued MacIan , still staring stolidly at the other , " that you are a great chief , and it is good to go to war behind you ."
Turnbull said nothing , but turned and looked out of the foolish lattice of the little windows , then he said , " We must have food and sleep first ."
When the last echo of their eluded pursuers had died in the distant uplands , Turnbull began to unpack the provisions with the easy air of a man at a picnic .
He had just laid out the last items , put a bottle of wine on the floor , and a tin of salmon on the window - ledge , when the bottomless silence of that forgotten place was broken .
And it was broken by three heavy blows of a stick delivered upon the door .
Turnbull looked up in the act of opening a tin and stared silently at his companion .
MacIan ' s long , lean mouth had shut hard .
" Who the devil can that be ?"
said Turnbull .
" God knows ," said the other .
" It might be God ."
Again the sound of the wooden stick reverberated on the wooden door .
It was a curious sound and on consideration did not resemble the ordinary effects of knocking on a door for admittance .
It was rather as if the point of a stick were plunged again and again at the panels in an absurd attempt to make a hole in them .
A wild look sprang into MacIan ' s eyes and he got up half stupidly , with a kind of stagger , put his hand out and caught one of the swords .
" Let us fight at once ," he cried , " it is the end of the world ."
" You ' re overdone , MacIan ," said Turnbull , putting him on one side .
" It ' s only someone playing the goat .
Let me open the door ."
But he also picked up a sword as he stepped to open it .
He paused one moment with his hand on the handle and then flung the door open .
Almost as he did so the ferrule of an ordinary bamboo cane came at his eyes , so that he had actually to parry it with the naked weapon in his hands .
As the two touched , the point of the stick was dropped very abruptly , and the man with the stick stepped hurriedly back .
Against the heraldic background of sprawling crimson and gold offered him by the expiring sunset , the figure of the man with the stick showed at first merely black and fantastic .
He was a small man with two wisps of long hair that curled up on each side , and seen in silhouette , looked like horns .
